Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18657
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2767-NI)
December 3, 1998
Human and Social Development Department (LCHSD)
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of thieir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = C6rdoba (C)
Average Exchange Rates
1995 C$7.53 = US$1.00
1996 C$8.44 = US$1.00
1997 C$9.45 = US$1.00
1998 C$ 10.74 = US$1.00 (June 1998)
1995 SDR1.00 = US$1.57
1996 SDR1.00 = US$1.44
1997 SDR1.00 = US$1.40
1998 SDR 1.00 = US$1.36 (June 1998)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
COSUDE        Swiss Development Corporation
ENACAL        National Water Supply and Sewerage Enterprise
FISE          Social Investment Emergency Fund
FMP           Preventive Maintenance Fund
FONIF         Nicaraguan Child and Family Fund
GON           Government of Nicaragua
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
INAA          Nicaraguan Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
INEC          National Institute of Statistics and Census
INIFOM        Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development
IPDP          Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
KfW           German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LSMS          Living Standards Measurement Survey
MAS           Social Action Ministry
MED           Ministry of Education
MEDE          Ministry of the Economy and Development
MINSA         Ministry of Health
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
OPEC          Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PNDR          National Rural Development Program
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SIF I         Social Investment Fund Project, Credit 2434-NI
SIF II        Second Social Investment Fund Project, Credit 2767-NI
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:     S. Javed Burki
Country Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Managers:      Willem Struben/Rafael Flores



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Page
PREFACE ..................................................
EVALUATION SUJMMARY.i
PART ONE: PRCOJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................I
INTRODUCTION .................................................I
PROJECT OBJECITIVES ................................................1I
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................2
Poverty Reduction ................................................                                           2
Other Social Objectives .................................................3
Environmenlt .................................................4
Private Sector Development ................................................4
Public Sector Management ................................................4
Institutional Development .................................................5
Project Design ................................................5
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................................................6
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control .................................................6
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control .................................................6
Factors Generally Subject to FISE Control .................................................7
Changes in the Project Cost .................................................7
Implementation Delays .................................................8
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ................................................9
IDA PERFORMANCE .....9............................................9
Identification .................................................9
Preparation Assistance .................................................9
Appraisal .................................................9
Supervisionl ...........................................................9
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ................................................. 0
Preparation ................................................                                                10
Implementation ................................................                                             10
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................11
FUTURE OPERATION ................................................1  I
KEY LESSONS LEARNED .................................................11
PART TWO: STATISTICAL DATA
Appendixes:                A.       Missionts aide memoire
This document has, a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2767-NI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Social Investment Fund
Project in Nicaragua, for which Credit 2767-NI in the amount of SDR19.1 million (initially the equivalent
of US$30 million equivalent) was approved on July 11, 1995, and made effective on April 30, 1996.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of December 13,
1997. It was fully disbursed, and the final disbursement took place on July 6, 1998. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by the Government of Germany through the German Credit Institute for
Reconstruction (KflN), the Govemment of Sweden through the Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA), the Governmnent of Switzerland through the Swiss Development Corporation (COSUDE), the Inter-
American Development Bank (1DB), the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the Government of Nicaragua (GON), and
beneficiaries.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Willem Struben and Rafael Flores, Task Managers, LCSHD, of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with the help of Mmes. Anna Webb (consultant),
Sarah Quinn, and bLrick Kebeck (LCSHD), and was reviewed by Ms. Ana-Maria Arriagada, Country
Sector Leader, LCC2,C. KfW reviewed and agreed with the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's completion mission in July 1998. The ICR is
based on the Development Credit Agreement, the mid-term review, supervision reports, and material in the
project file, in addition to discussions with the borrower. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by presenting views reflected in the mission's aide memoire, compiling statistical data, preparing an
evaluation of the project's implementation, and commenting on the draft ICR. The borrower did not
contribute the usual separate annex with its findings on the project, since all of it managers and staff are
and will be fully occupied with special programs to deal with the Mitch hurricane disaster.
i



Evaluation Summary
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2767-NI)
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Introduction
The International Development Association (IDA) is a leading donor in the health and education
sectors in Nicaragua, and, along with a significant number of other multi- and bilateral donors, is a major
contributor to the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE) under the First and Second Social Investment
(SIF) projects. The Government of Nicaragua established FISE in 1990, as a temporary social safety net
program to help protect and improve the standard of living of marginal groups during the period of
economic adjustment, through the provision of employment and social and economic infrastructure and
services. The Government continues to rely on FISE for the delivery of education, health, and water supply
and sanitation infrastructure to the poorest regions of the country, in line with its social sector policy, which
aims to expand access to social services, improve efficiency and accountability in the delivery of social
services, and focus on the most vulnerable groups suffering from malnutrition and poverty. It is estimated
that one-half of the country's population falls below the poverty line, and one-fifth below the extreme
poverty line.'
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Second Social Investment Fund (SIF II) Project (Cr. 2767-NI) were to help
the Government sustain its poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion during the economic
adjustment period. Additionally, the project would help support the Government's decentralization strategy,
strengthen the locall contracting industry, broaden the menu of projects financed by FISE, support the
targeting of resources to more depressed areas, and help meet the special needs of the indigenous
population. The IDA Credit was also intended as a channel to mobilize further international assistance. The
project had four components: (a) investment subprojects, (b) institutional strengthening, (c) a Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS), and (d) a maintenance fund.
No significant modifications were made to the project objectives during implementation. However,
with the change in administration in January 1997, the Government's focus changed from structural
adjustment to development, which expanded FISE's mandate to play a key role in improving living
conditions and development opportunities among the poorest segments of the country's population by
improving access to, as well as quality and sustainability of, priority social infrastructure in the poorest
areas. Consequently, the project was more demanding and complex than SIF I, which emphasized FlSE's
role in stemming the negative affects of adjustment. New concerns for the quality and sustainability of
social infrastructure, in addition to support for the Government's decentralization strategy, resulted in a
significant reorientation ofFISE's mission and operations, which IDA fully supported.
'Republic of Nicaraga.a - Poverty Assessment, Report No. 14038 - NI of June 1, 1998
. .



Implementation Experience and Results
The principal objective to help the Government sustain its poverty alleviation efforts was
substantially achieved when measured by the extent to which planned interventions were met and by
subproject results and benefits. From 1991 to 1997, FISE approved investments of nearly US$180 million
to the country's 147 municipalities, according to a poverty map that classified municipalities in three groups:
extreme poverty, high poverty, and medium poverty. Through 1997, FISE surpassed the targets for
investment to extreme poverty and high poverty municipalities, although, during the first semester of 1998,
FISE did not meet the target for extreme poverty municipalities, and exceeded the target for medium
poverty municipalities. Sectoral target allocations were estimated in four broad categories:  social
infrastructure, economic infrastructure, social services, and environment. Actual investments based on
contracted subprojects exceeded the estimate for social infrastructure, and fell below the estimates for the
other categories.  Strong education sector demand accounted for the larger investment in social
infrastructure. Investment in water supply and sanitation was substantially below the target, due mainly to
persistent coordination problems with the policy- and norm-setting institution, the Nicaraguan Water Supply
and Sewerage Authority (INAA).
FISE achieved notable results in financing 2375 social infrastructure subprojects that improved
access to and conditions for social services delivery; in addition, it funded 326 economic infrastructure,
3,062 social services, and 18 environment subprojects. Total beneficiaries numbered approximately 7.7
million persons.2 Temporary subproject employment generation was estimated at 304,146 months. In 1996,
FISEs participation in social sector spending was 17 percent of total government investment expenditures
(55 percent of public sector education and 25 percent of public sector health).
FISE is likely to sustain its activities in the medium term. Although Nicaragua is on the path to
economic recovery, poverty remains wide-spread, and the need for additional investment in social
infrastructure and services is still significant. FISE's institutional strengths--transparency and efficiency of
operations, and stability and expertise of senior management and technical staff--have made it the most
successful government program providing national coverage in social infrastructure. The Government's
commitment to FISE remains strong, as does donor confidence and support. FISE is, and will continue to
be, vulnerable due to complete reliance on the availability of external resources and the fact that its viability
is linked to ministries and government agencies whose weaknesses have yet to be overcome. Project
sustainability would also be supported by the follow-on SIF III project was approved by the Board on
November 10, 1998.
FISE-financed subprojects are likely to be sustainable. FISE increased opportunities for beneficiary
participation in subproject identification, priority-ranking, formulation, and maintenance.  However,
subproject sustainability does not depend on FISE alone, but on all subproject participants whose
commitment, resources, and capacity will continue to be decisive factors. An impact evaluation, designed
jointly by IDA and FISE, will examine these issues in detail to provide guidance to all parties involved, as
well as advice on possible corrective action.3
2 Various beneficiaries benefited from more than one project.
3 FISE Impact Evaluation, Concept Paper of October 7, 1998.
. . 



At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at $102.4 million. FISE's project cost (subproject
investments plus operating costs) was estimated at US$100 million. However, from January 1996 through
June 1998, FISE attracted more donor support and increased overall project funding more than anticipated.
As a result, in June 1998, the total project cost was US$172 million; of which US$162.3 million was spent
on subprojects and operating costs. Subproject investment approvals were originally estimated at US$89.6
million, which had increased to US$150.7 million by June 1998. However, subproject disbursements were
US$85.7 million, which suggests that the project cost for FISE was correctly appraised, although FISE's
ability to mobilize and commit resources was underestimated.
The IDA credit was to be disbursed over a period of about two and one-half years. The original
project completion date was June 30, 1997, and the project closing date December 13, 1997. The closing
date was extended to June 30, 1998, because credit effectiveness was delayed by nine months. This was
mainly the result of slow approval by the National Assembly (a requirement enacted at the time of Board
approval of the credlit), and the change in government administration in early-1997.
The principal positive factors that contributed to the project's success were: FISE's growth and
maturity as an institution, the continuity and competence of senior management and technical staff,
adherence to social investment fund standard procedures and practices, government commitment to and
donor confidence in FISE, and FISE's ability to mobilize external resources. However, several key factors
had a negative effect on the achievement of project objectives. As a result of the gradual reduction in value
of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) from the equivalent of US$30 million in the Credit Agreement to the
equivalent of US$26.5 million by June 1998. FISE had to tap into alternative funding to complete some
infrastructure subprojects. Other negative factors included the decision-making delays caused by changes in
key ministry and government agency personnel due to the. change in administration; lack of effective inter-
institutional coordination due to insufficient resources, high personnel turnover, and lack of technical
capacity in ministrites and government agencies; and the difficulties in sector modernization and policy
reform in the water and health services which hampered FISE's ability to finance subprojects in health and
rural water supply.
Overall, the performance of IDA in project identification preparation assistance, and appraisal was
quite satisfactory. P'roject supervision was also satisfactory.
The perforrnance of FISE in project preparation and implementation was in general satisfactory.
Project administration was efficient; and project management remained strong. However, the latter showed
some weaknesses, including susceptibility to political interference. Significant achievements included
operational efficiencies gained in the subproject cycle; the development of a new poverty map, which
increases investments to extreme poverty and high poverty municipalities; the expansion of FISE's menu to
include new subpro ject types; the design and implementation of the FISE-INIFOM Municipal-Community
Strengthening Program, which builds local government and community capacity in subproject
administration, management, and maintenance; the design and partial implementation of a subproject quality
control and monitoriing system; and the creation of the Communications and Social Training Unit, as well as
the Environmental Unit, albeit belatedly. FISE made substantial progress on increasing beneficiary
participation, partial progress in increasing non-govermnental organization (NGO) participation, and
negligible progress in helping to meet the special needs of the indigenous population.
iv



Based on the achievement of the principal objectives and FISE's implementation performance, the
project outcome was satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The most important finding of the implementation experience was that the institutioial change from
an emergency to a development response, which featured the integration of project efficiency (rapid
subproject approval, execution, and disbursements) and effectiveness (subproject quality, community and
NGO participation, sustainability of benefits, and social impact), was more difficult to achieve than
anticipated. Progress was slow, although the net results were positive. This change affected the whole
institution, from the departments directly responsible for subprojects (promotion, evaluation, contracting,
and supervision) to finance and administration, information systems, and internal auditing.
The SIF III project will support FISE's investment program for the period mid-1998 until mid-
2002, as well as institutional strengthening to build the capacity of municipalities and communities, improve
monitoring and evaluation, and support project management. IDA support would focus particularly on
subproject sustainability, community participation, decentralization, and program for the indigenous
population. Key performance indicators would monitor the efficiency and equity in the allocation and use
of resources. The issues discussed in this report were fully addressed during the preparation of SIF III.
The positive lessons learned were:
(a)    FISE's institutional capacity made it possible to effect a systemic change, which was facilitated by
the close collaboration of FISE and major donors (IDA, IDB, and KfW). Neither the impact of this
change on the institution, nor the slow rate at which change occurred, were fully anticipated.
(b)    Highly experienced senior management and technical staff and their continuity have been, and
continue to be, absolutely critical to the success of the project. The need for intermediate-level staff
trained for management positions and for internal staff training should not be overlooked.
(c)    The increasing complexity of social investment funds in general and FISE in particular requires
substantial IDA supervision, with the corresponding skills and technical competencies.
(d)    The sustainability of investments is directly linked to beneficiary participation: the greater the
involvement of the community from the identification of a subproject to operations and
maintenance, the more likely sustainability is.
v



The negative lessons learned were:
(e)    FISE's operational efficiency is dependent upon the abilities of ministries and government agencies
to provide ihe inputs needed for subproject operation and maintenance. However, the parallel
institutional strengthening of line ministries was more complicated and slower than initially
anticipated, requiring FISE to play a substantially greater role that is likely to continue in the
foreseeable ifuture.
(f)    Social investment funds operate in a political environmert which involves pressures of a political
nature on decision-making that may be inescapable. Therefore, although difficult, it is necessary to
insist upon objective mechanisms for the allocation of resources to subprojects, whether by type,
geographic area, or both, and to monitor this closely.
(g)    The lack of effective coordination at all levels--between FISE and government agencies, as well as
within FISE--had a negative impact on implementation performance.  Better and increased
communication, including team-building and the establishment of feedback mechanisms, will be
vital to FISE's success in the future.
(h)    The organizational difficulties in the water supply and sanitation sector were underestimated, and in
the future, greater resources will be required to progress in this key sector.
(i)    The depreciation of the SDR and consequent reduction in funding for FISEs investment program
covered by the credit taught FISE that multiple currency credits can be risky.
vi



Part One: Project Implementation Assessment
INTRODUCTION
1.    In November 1990, following a decade of civil war and accelerated economic decline,4 the
Government of Nicaragua (GON) established the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE) as a
temporary social safety net program to help protect and improve the standard of living of marginal
social groups during the period of economic adjustment, through the provision of employment and
social and economic infrastructure and services! Originally scheduled to end in December 1995,
the Government extended FISEs legal life by two years to help meet protracted social and
economic problems. In March 1997, the Government again extended FISE's life, to the year 2002.
The Government continues to rely on FISE for the delivery of education, health, and water supply
and sanitation infrastructure to the poorest regions of the country, in line with its social sector
policy, which aims to expand access to social services, improve efficiency and accountability in the
delivery of social services, and focus on the most vulnerable groups who suffer from malnutrition
and poverty. It is estimated that one-half of the country's population falls below the poverty line
and one-fifth below the extreme poverty line.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.     The objectives of the Second Social Investment Fund (SIF II) Project (Cr. 2767-NI) were to
help the Government sustain its poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion during the
economic adjustment period. Additionally, the project would help support the Govemment's
decentralization strategy, strengthen the local contracting industry, broaden the menu of projects
financed by FISE, support the targeting of resources to more depressed areas, and help meet the
special needs of the indigenous population. The IDA Credit was also intended as a channel to
mobilize further international support.
3.     The project had four components: (a) investment subprojects (US$100.0 million, of which
US$10.4 millioin would be for FISE's operating costs); (b) institutional strengthening (US$1.0
million); (c) a Living Standards Measurement Survey (US$0.5 million); and (d) a maintenance fund
(US$0.9 million).6 The investment subproject component was to finance small-scale social and
economic infrastructure and social services subprojects, as well as other categories of subprojects
identified by FI:SE and agreed to with donors. The institutional strengthening component was to
strengthen FISE's internal management, extend and improve upon its subproject promotion work,
help FISE increase its capacity to prepare water supply and sanitation subprojects and improve its
environmental assessment procedures, help FISE strengthen its operations in the Atlantic coast
region, update the poverty map upon which resource allocation was based, improve internal
auditing procedures, and strengthen subproject monitoring and evaluation. The Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) was to assist the Government in implementing a second round of the
survey conducted under the first Social Investment Fund (SIF I) Project (Cr. 2434-NI) to update the
poverty map.  The maintenance fund component was to provide resources for preventive
maintenance of health and education subprojects. In addition, while not part of project design, the
4    See "Poverty Assessment", June 1, 1995 (Report No. 14038-NI)
5   The other GON social safety net programs are administered by the Social Action Ministry (MAS),
National Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM), National Rural Development Program (PNDR),
and Nicaraguan Child and Family Fund (FONIF).
6   The first two components were financed by both IDA and IDB, while the third and fourth
components were financed by IDA and IDB, respectively. The investment subproject component received
financing from all of the donors.



infrastructure component of the Basic Education Project (Cr. 2689-NI) was to be administered by
FISE.
4.    The principal project objective to support the Government's poverty alleviation efforts was
consistent with the International Development Association's (IDA) country assistance strategy
(CAS), whose key priority was poverty reduction, as well as assisting the Government to establish
the conditions necessary for reactivating economic growth. IDA directly supported FISE under the
SIF I Project (Cr. 2434-NI), along with a significant number of other multi- and bilateral donors7
IDA is a leading donor in the health and education sectors and among the most vulnerable groups
(Table A2).  No significant modifications were made to the project objectives during
implementation. However, with the change in government administration in January 1997, the
Government's focus changed from structural adjustment to development strategies, which expanded
FISE's mandate to not only provide a safety net and generate employment but to also play a key role
in improving living conditions and development opportunities among the poorest segments of the
country's population by improving access to, as well as quality and sustainability of priority social
infrastructure in the poorest areas. Consequently, the project was more demanding and complex
than SIF I, which emphasized FISEs role in stemming the negative affects of adjustment. New
concerns for the quality and sustainability of social infrastructure, in addition to support for the
Government's decentralization strategy, resulted in a reorientation of FISE's mission and operations,
which IDA fully supported.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Poverty Reduction
5.    Based on the extent to which planned interventions were met, using geographic and
sectoral targets for resource allocation to subprojects, and subproject results and benefits, the project
clearly met its achievement of the principal project objective to help the Government sustain its
poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion during the economic adjustment period.
FISE's contribution to poverty reduction was significant in terms of improving access to, and the
conditions of social services delivery. In 1996, FISE's participation in social sector investment was
17 percent (55 percent of public sector education and 25 percent of public sector health capital
expenditures).
6.    Geographic Targeting. The geographic targeting of investments worked well from 1991
through 1997. FISE approved investments of nearly US$180 million to the country's 147
municipalities according to a poverty map which classified municipalities in three groups: extreme
poverty, high poverty, and medium poverty (Tables B1 and B3). Extreme poverty municipalities
received 22 percent of resources, compared to 20 percent planned; high poverty municipalities
received 59 percent, compared to 57 percent planned; and medium poverty municipalities received
19 percent, compared to 23 percent planned (Table B1). In 1997, FISE strengthened targeting
through the development of a new poverty map, based on the results of the LSMS of 1993 and 1995
population census data, which was used since 1998. The number of municipalities changed in each
category (Table B2). Resource allocations also changed: from 20 percent to 57 percent for extreme
poverty municipalities, from 57 percent to 36 percent for high poverty municipalities, and from 23
percent to 7 percent for medium poverty municipalities. However, during the first semester of
1998, FISE did not meet the target for extreme poverty municipalities and exceeded the target for
medium poverty municipalities (Tables B4 and B6). This situation will require close monitoring.
7   IDA's successful support to FISE is documented in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR,
Sec. M97-122 of April 11, 1997) for SIF I (Cr. 2434-NI).
2



7.     Sectorall Targeting. The sectoral distribution of resources was estimated in four broad
categories for the period 1995 to 1997: social infrastructure, 58.5 percent; economic infrastructure,
16.4 percent; social services, 22.9 percent; and environment, 2.4 percent. From January 1995
through June 1998, FISE's actual investments based on contracted subprojects were: social
infrastructure, 66.9 percent; economic infrastructure, 17.4 percent; social services, 14.8 percent; and
environment, 0.9 percent (Table B7).8 The larger proportion of social infrastructure investment
principally reflected strong education sector demand, which accounted for 73 percent of social
infrastructure investment, compared to a 13 percent share of the health sector. In addition,
investment in water supply and sanitation was less than 1 percent of the estimated target of 15
percent, due mainly to ongoing coordination problems with the policy and norm-setting institution,
the Nicaraguan W'ater Supply and Sewerage Authority (INAA).
8.     Project Results and Benefits.  FISE achieved substantial results in financing social
infrastructure subprojects that improved access to and the conditions of social services delivery.
From 1991 through June 1998, FISE contracted 2,375 social infrastructure subprojects, including
the rehabilitation or remodeling of 1,702 pre-primary and primary schools, 129 secondary institutes,
30 technical and vocational centers, 301 health posts, 55 health centers, 44 child care centers, 52
water supply subprojects, 44 sanitation subprojects, and 16 shelters and homes for the elderly
(Table B8). FIS3E also contracted 326 economic infrastructure, 3,062 social services, and 18
environmental subprojects. Subproject beneficiaries numbered approximately 7.7 million persons
and subprojects generated an estimated 304,146 months of temporary employment.9 The results of
a beneficiary assessment showed that, in general, beneficiaries were satisfied with subprojects and
agreed that they were a priority for their respective communities.10 The results of an extensive
evaluation of the impact of subprojects on beneficiary communities, currently carried out by FISE
and IDA, will be available in June 1999."
Other Social Objectives
9.     Under the objective of poverty alleviation, the other formal social objectives concerned the
needs of the indigvenous population, increased community participation toward the sustainability of
subproject benefits, the participation of non-governmental organizations VGOs), and gender
concerns.
10.    Indigenous Population. Unfortunately, little was done to help meet the special needs of
the indigenous population, who account for 11 percent of the population. Although FISE
strengthened operations in the Atlantic Coast region, where the majority of ethnic groups are
concentrated, andl geographic targeting goals were met for the region, no special subprojects were
developed. For the third operation, FISE has prepared an operational strategy and Indigenous
Peoples Developmnent Plan (IPDP).
11.    Community Participation.  There was substantial progress on greater beneficiary
community involvement in FISE-financed subprojects, even though evaluation criteria were not
well-defined. The number of community organization and training subprojects, executed in parallel
8    FISE's investment program was planned for the period 1995 to 1997. However, the project
closing date was extended to June 30, 1998; therefore, the analysis focuses on the period January
1995 to June 30, 1998.
9    The number of beneficiaries is based on ex-ante appraisal; employment generation is also based on
ex-ante appraisal data. Various beneficiaries benefited from more than one project.
10  Instituto cle Desarrollo Empresarial Asociativo. Evaluacion Cualitativa de Beneficiarios FISE
1993/96, Managua, Nicaragua, julio de 1998.
"1   See FISE Impact Evaluation, op. cit.
3



with health, education, and latrine infrastructure subprojects, more than doubled between March
1997 and June 1998. The FISE-INIFOM Municipal-Community Strengthening Program aimed at
community and local government participation in subproject identification, priority-ranking,
formulation, and maintenance. Other actions included FISE community consultations on subproject
formulation and the creation of community supervision committees to monitor subproject
execution.
12.   Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs). The objective to enhance NGO participation
in FISE-financed subprojects was only partially achieved, due to the fact that substantive actions
were not realized until 1997, when the start of the pilot phase of the FISE-INIFOM Municipal-
Community Strengthening Program significantly increased opportunities for NGO participation,
especially in the formulation and execution of micro-planning subprojects. Through June 1998, 17
NGOs had formulated 1,155 subprojects of US$4.6 million, and 17 NGOs had executed 848
subprojects of US$4.0 million (Table B9). In the future, NGOs are expected to play a large role in
environment, child care centers, and family garden subprojects.
13.   Gender Concerns. Although women were part of the most vulnerable groups toward
whom FISE directed investments, specific gender concems were not incorporated into project
design, and were only raised during implementation. In addition, FISE expanded its subproject
menu to include family garden and child care center subprojects, whose intended beneficiaries are
women and families. Also, FISE maintains an equal opportunity policy for subproject contractors
(10 percent women) and external supervisors (15 percent women). Under the third operation,
specific gender actions will be incorporated into project design and implementation. These actions
will also be based on the results of the ongoing impact evaluation, which is looking at women's
participation.
Environment
14.   The project had no significant environmental risks, and was given an environmental rating
of category "B." FISE's environmental assessment procedures were improved, although much
more slowly than expected. Following a three year effort, the Environmental Unit became
operational in January 1998. The Unit established an environmental monitoring system that covers
the subproject cycle, and initiated a training program for FISE staff and other subproject
participants, such as external supervisors.
Private Sector Development
15.   It was difficult to assess the impact on the local construction industry, because evaluation
criteria were not established. In hindsight, this objective appeared distant from the principal
objective of poverty alleviation. On the basis of private sector participation in FISE-financed
subprojects and the impact of FISE on the private sector, the objective was substantially achieved.
Through June 1998, 126 construction firms executed 684 infrastructure subprojects of US$41
million, or 22 percent of total approved investment. Individual contractors (1,060) executed 3,686
subprojects of US$119 million, or 65 percent of investment (Table B10). FISE promoted market
competition in the construction sector through the subproject contracting modes of local shopping
and public bidding. FISE-financed subprojects stimulated the transport sector and the production of
basic construction materials in all departmental capitals. However, the demand that FISE-financed
subprojects generates for subproject contractors and building materials and supplies has at times
exceeded supply, to the detriment of subproject execution and quality.
4



Public Sector NManagement
16.   The Government's decentralization strategy was assisted under the Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) component and the FISE-INIFOM Municipal-Community
Strengthening Program. Implementation of the first component was delayed in part due to
management changes in the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC), but is now well
underway. The results of the 1998 LSMS will provide the basis for analyzing the change of poverty
since 1993, and to create a national poverty map to refine targeting of public expenditures and
programs (based on LSMS and 1995 Census data). FISE's impact evaluation, to be repeated every
four years, forms part of the survey. The FISE-INIFOM Municipal-Community Strengthening
Program, which aims to gradually decentralize resources to the local level, will strengthen
participating municipal governments' capacity to plan, manage subprojects, and provide adequate
maintenance to health and education infrastructure.
Institutional Development
17.   Institutional development was aimed at changing FISE from an agency that provided an
emergency response to infrastructure needs to one that provides a development response to priority
social infrastructure needs in the poorest areas. This change affected the whole agency, from the
departments directly responsible for subprojects (promotion, evaluation, contracting, and
supervision) to finance and administration, information systems, and internal auditing. Although
the substantial institutional impact of the change and the slow rate at which change occurred were
not fully anticipated, the overall change was positive, albeit with some shortcomings. Internal
auditing services and the acquisition of computer hardware and software, office equipment and
furniture, and vehicles contributed to overall institutional development. The creation of the
Communications and Social Training Unit, the Environmental Unit, and the FISE-INIFOM
Municipal-Comrmunity Strengthening Program contributed toFISE's effectiveness as an institution.
However, the objective to build FISE's capacity in the preparation of water supply and sanitation
subprojects, especially water supply in dispersed rural areas, was seriously constrained by persistent
problems with INAA on responsibilities, policies, and technical designs. FISE will continue to
require special assistance in this area, which the third operation will provide.
18.   The development of the FISE-INIFOM Municipal-Community Strengthening Program was
a significant achiievement. The program has three components: the Preventive Maintenance Fund
(FMP), participatory micro-planning at the local level, and local level administration and
management of public social investment. The FMP provides preventive maintenance of FISE-
financed primary schools and health posts, based on the preparation of facilities' maintenance plans
and funded by local communities, municipalities, FISE, and the central government. The micro-
planning component provides technical assistance and training to local governments in the
management of participatory processes in the development of a three-year basic social investment
plan and annual preventive maintenance plans for education and health infrastructure. The pilot
phase of the program showed positive results, and program coverage has been expanded. The
weaknesses encountered were inter-institutional coordination and support, particularly from the
chief partner institution, INIFOM. The next project provides for close coordination with INIFOM,
and has a substantial training component.
Project Design
19.   The design of the project was appropriate for achieving the principal objective to help the
Government sustain its poverty alleviation efforts, through FISE's investment in social and
economic infrastructure. The criteria for judging the achievement of this objective were adequately
specified. In retrospect, the objective to help meet the needs of the indigenous population should
5



have required more attention. Also, when the project was designed in 1995, prevailing conditions
still viewed FISE as an instrument to mitigate the negative impact of structural adjustment on the
poor. Emphasis was placed on efficiency (rapid subproject approval, execution, and disbursement
rates) to provide a fast response to the slow economic recovery. Subsequently, the effectiveness
and sustainability of investment became more of a key issue. This translated into quality concerns--
community participation, infrastructure subproject quality, sustainability of benefits, and social
impact. In hindsight, these concerns were not adequately integrated into project design.
20.    Project design did not sufficiently take into account the need for internal staff training12 or
for strengthening FISE's partner institutions. Internal staff training would have been useful, given
the considerable institutional and programmatic changes that occurred, and continue to occur. With
the exception of institutional strengthening for the Ministry of Education (MED), which was
financed under the IDB loan, no activities were planned to assistFISE's other partner institutions.13
FISE's strongest partner has been MED, as evidenced by FISE's investment in the education sector.
INIFOM will receive much-needed institutional strengthening under the third operation.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
21.    The depreciation of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) had a negative impact on project
implementation. The credit of SDRI9.1 million was equivalent to US$30 million at project
approval in July 1995, but, eventually, only amounted to the equivalent of US$26.5 million. As a
result, alternative donor funding had to be located by FISE. Other factors that had a partial, adverse
impact on subproject execution and quality were:  subproject formulator and contractor
deficiencies; the presence of irregular armed groups in the north Atlantic region; problems with the
two private sector insurance companies from whom subproject contractors purchase construction
guarantees; and limited national capacity to produce construction materials required for FISE-
financed subprojects, including standardized technical specifications.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
22.    The slow process of approval of the credit by the National Assembly had a substantial
adverse effect on the project implementation schedule. The project was approved by the Executive
Directors of IDA in July 1995, but the credit only became effective in April 1996, due to a
constitutional reform, enacted at the time of Board approval of this credit, that required the approval
by the legislature of IDA credits for the first time. As a result of the slow start of the project
disbursement of the credit, the closing date was extended from December 13, 1997 to June 30,
1998.
23.    The change in government administration in early-1997 also had a negative impact on
project implementation. When the new government took office, significant changes were made in
high-level and technical ministry personnel, as well as municipal authorities, which delayed critical
decision-making for several months.  In addition, the lack of effective inter-institutional
12    Apart from substantial staff training in environmental evaluation funded under
the credit.
13  In addition to MED, FISE's partner institutions included the Ministry of Health (MINSA),
INIFOM, FONIF, and INAA. However, it should be noted that, in the context of expediency,
IDA had decided to use the IDB appraisal report and introduce as few changes as possible.
6



coordination affected project implementation, largely because of insufficient resources, high
personnel turnover, and lack of technical capacity in ministries and government agencies.
24.    The Jifficulties experienced with modernization and policy reform in the health and water
supply sectors too had a negative impact on project implementation. FISE depended on line
ministries and government agencies to establish investment priorities and define technical norns for
subproject design and the lack of technical norms for health subprojects and water supply
subprojects in dispersed rural areas continued to impede FISE's ability to finance subprojects in
these sectors. Although FISE's project objectives coincided with the government strategy to target
investments to the poorest areas, there was little guidance beyond that.
25.    Finally, the lack of clarity in the respective responsibilities and functions of FISE's
Executive Director and the President of its Administrative Council, as defined in the legal
framework of the institution, had a negative impact on the development and implementation of
FISE's program and policy, and in particular, detracted from management and daily operations.
This matter, however, was addressed in Presidential Decree 57-98 of August 28, 1998, which
redefines FISE's legal institutional framework.
Factors Generally Subject to FISE Control
26.    The principal factors that contributed substantially to FlSE's success and institutional
stability were the continuity and competence of senior management and technical staff, adherence
to social investment fund standard procedures and practices, government commitment to and donor
confidence in FISE, and FISE's ability to mobilize external resources.
27.    Factors that had a negative impact on project performance included slow progress in
helping to meet the special needs of the indigenous population, establishing the Environmental
Unit, increasing community and NGO participation, and improving subproject quality and quality
control measures. In addition, some management and organizational issues had a negative effect on
project perfonnance. During the pre-election period in 1996, the Executive Director resigned, and
an interim director was appointed. Following the elections, the Executive Director returned;
however, critical decision-making had been delayed for several months. In the last two years, the
irregular presence of leadership weakened management in terms of decision-making and
constrained effective coordination among the different FISE departments. Deferral in the timely
appointment of a Promotion Director in mid-1997 and again in mid-1998 also constrained
operations. FISE has grown substantially and matured as an institution, but, whileFISE's role has
changed, its management was slow in adjusting the organizational structure to the new reality.
Changes in the Project Cost
28.    The project cost increased substantially because of FISE's ability to mobilize additional,
external resources. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$102.4 million (Table
A6a). In practice, from January 1996 to June 30, 1998, the total cost was US$172 million, based on
commitments. The target for external funding was US$88.2 million, compared to loan and grant
approvals of US$159.6 million by IDA and other multi-lateral and bilateral donors (Table A6b).'4
14  The principal sources of external financing were: (a) IDA Cr. 2767-NI of US$26.6 million; (b)
IDA C(r. 2689-NI infrastructure investment component of US$8.2 million; (c) IDB Loan
Agreemnents 935/SF NI and 1003/SF-NI and ATN SF/4735 of US$90 million; (d) the Government
of Germany (KfW) Agreement 9567009 of US$14.8 million; (e) the Government of Sweden
(SIDA) Agreements I and II of US$5.1 million; (f) the Government of Switzerland (COSUDE) of
US$5 million; (g) the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID PL 480 generated
7



At appraisal, the FISE project cost (subproject investments plus operating costs) was estimated at
US$100 million. As of June 1998, FISE's project cost was US$162.3 million. Compared to
appraisal estimates, the cost of subproject investment increased from US$89.6 million to US$150.7
million, and operating costs increased from US$10.4 million to US$11.6 million. However,
subproject disbursements at US$85.7 million were much less, which suggests that the project cost
for FISE was correctly appraised, although FlSE's ability to mobilize resources was underestimated.
At appraisal, the government contribution was projected at US$10.3 million, compared to the
eventual commitment of US$12.4 million. The contribution of beneficiaries was estimated at
US$3.9 million, but the actual amount is not known, since FISE does not monetize beneficiary
contributions.
Implementation Delays
29.    The IDA credit was to be disbursed over a period of about two and one-half years. The
original project completion date was June 30, 1997 and the closing date December 13, 1997.
However, the closing date was extended to June 30, 1998. The principal implementation delays, as
previously noted, were the nine-month wait for the National Assembly to approve the credit, as well
as the transition between government administrations.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.    FISE is likely to continue to exist in the medium term. Although Nicaragua is on the path
to economic recovery, poverty remains widespread, and the need for additional investment in social
infrastructure and services is still significant. FISE's institutional strengths--transparency and
efficiency of operations and stability of senior management and technical staff--have made it the
most successful government program providing national coverage in social infrastructure. The
Government's commitment to FISE remains strong, as does donor confidence and support. FISE is,
and will continue to be, vulnerable due to complete reliance on the availability of external resources
and the fact that its viability is linked to ministries and government agencies whose weaknesses
have yet to be overcome. Project sustainability will also be supported by the follow-on SIF III
project.
31.    FISE-financed subprojects are in general sustainable. FISE increased opportunities for the
participation of beneficiary communities and local authorities, and designed a quality control
monitoring system for infrastructure subprojects. The Government has established in FISE a
Preventive Maintenance Fund, and made a commitment to fund preventive maintenance activities in
health and education as recurrent costs in the national budget. Water supply subprojects are
maintained by user committees. Subproject sustainability does not depend on FISE alone, but on all
subproject participants (central and local ministry and government agencies, local governments,
communities, NGOs, and donors), whose commitment, resources, and capacity will continue to be
decisive factors. The issue of sustainability is addressed in great detail in the third operation. The
impact evaluation, designed jointly by FISE and IDA, will address this in detail, and provide
guidance and possible corrective actions.
funds) of US$5.8 million; (h) the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)
agreement of US$4 million; and the Govermment of Canada Fondos de Contravalor Canad4-
Nicaragua contribution of US$0.2 million.
8



IDA PERFORMANCE
Identification
32.   IDA's performance in Project identification was satisfactory, and assisted by the
preparatory work for the Poverty Assessment.'5 The project was very much needed and consistent
with IDA's country assistance strategy to help alleviate poverty through a lending program directed
at the social sectors and targeted at the poor, as well as assisting the Government in establishing the
co)iitions necessary for reactivating economic growth. Also, IDA decided to accept the IDB-
Appraisal Report, and to change as little as possible, to ensure a joint project and approach.
Preparation Assistance
33.   IDA's performance in assisting FISE with project preparation was highly satisfactory. The
project was prepared by FISE with technical support from the Regional Unit for Technical Support
in the Social Sectors (RUTA Social) and IDA and IDB staff, and with financing from a Government
of Japan grant.'6 The collaborative experience was positive and client-oriented; it accelerated the
preparation and appraisal process, which was important as the project implementation period was
relatively short because FISE's legal life was scheduled to end in December 1997. Preparation and
appraisal were facilitated by working with a highly experienced client.
Appraisal
34.   IDA's performance in project appraisal too was satisfactory. Correct appraisals were made
with respect to the Government's commitment, FISEs implementing capacity, and the recognition
of project risks. Monitoring and evaluation criteria were quantified in 31 key performance
indicators, which covered the efficiency and quality of FISE-financed subprojects, administrative
and financial efficiency, the focus of FISE investments, and employment generation, subproject
quality, and compliance with environmental measures. In lieu of a Staff Appraisal Report, IDA
used IDB's Pioject Document PR201 I of November 15, 1994, to avoid duplicating IDB's recent
preparation arid appraisal. In hindsight, the project could have profited from greater reflection on
how best to integrate quantitative efficiency considerations with qualitative sustainability concerns.
Supervision
35.   IDA  supervision was quite satisfactory.  Project implementation performance was
adequately reported; and problems were successfully identified and addressed. Supervision was
necessarily intensive (122.7 weeks) due to the complexity of the project; the skill mix and
continuity of IDA staff and consultants was important to FISE, including identification of technical
assistance and facilitation of NGO collaboration; and IDA and FISE worked well together, along
with IDB and KfW. The mid-term review, conducted in late-March early-April 1997, was a major
turning point; following the review, FISE made substantial progress in areas that had previously
received insufficient attention.
15  See Republic of Nicaragua -"Poverty Assessment, " op. cit.
16  With tdrhe exception of the LSMS component, which was prepared by the National Institute for
Statistics and Census with IDA assistance.
9



BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation
36.    FISE's performance in project preparation was highly satisfactory. The quality of technical,
financial, institutional analyses, and other inputs was high, and FISE's management was resolute in
its commitment to the project.
Implementation
37.    Overall, FISE's implementation performance was satisfactory, although some shortcomings
were noted. Implementation complied substantially with the Credit Agreement.
38.    Project administration was efficient. From 1991 through June 1998, total administrative
costs represented 10.6 percent of disbursements (Table B I1), which was in line with other social
investment funds in Latin America. Since credit approval, the number of staff increased from 139
to 179, mainly as a result of the creation of the Communications and Social Training Unit and the
Environmental Unit (Table B12). Project management remained strong in terms of the continuity
and competence of senior management, but it was weakened somewhat due to the leadership and
internal coerdination and communications issues previously described (para. 27).  FISE's
management information svstem, based on key performance indicators, worked reasonably well in
monitoring progress towaid achieving production goals and early detection of bottlenecks.
However, some problems were identified, e.g., cost and time over-runs in subproject execution.
FISE estimates that 90 percent of technical assistance was absorbed by the Planning Department;
other departments did not make adequate use of this resource.
39.    Subprojects and subproject processing improved. FISE expanded its menu to include five
new subproject types, although the development of other subproject types was behind schedule."7
The lack of sector technical normns precluded the development of subprojects such as health centers
with beds and water supply in rural dispersed areas. Subproject cost and time over-runs remain
problematic. Subprojects were satisfactory with regard to quality and adherence to environmental
requirements, and quality is expected to improve when the new quality control and impact
monitoring system  is fully implemented.  The development of this system, which features
subproject quality monitoring by external supervisors, annual beneficiary assessments, and impact
evaluation of subprojects to be conducted every four years in conjunction with the LSMS, was a
significant achievement.
40.    FISE gained operational efficiencies in the subproject cycle, which resulted from  a
comprehensive revision of the cycle (promotion, evaluation, contracting, supervision).  One
important result was that subproject processing efficiency increased slightly, compared to the mid-
term review findings, reversing a trend toward increased processing time. FISE substantially
increased subproject contracting amounts using local shopping and competitive bidding, which
promoted market competition and transparency of FISE operations. 8   However, separate
contracting of goods (school desks) and services (school subproject execution) imposed an undue
17   The new subprojects types are family and school gardens, mini school library and training, sports
fields, and solid waste management. The municipal market and vendor training and environment
subprojects are behind schedule.
18  In 1997, local shopping was 35 percent of total, compared to 26 percent in the period 1993-1996
(Table B13). Public bidding was 63 percent, compared to 45 percent in the same period. Direct
contracting decreased from 28 percent to 2 percent in 1997.
10



burden on the Contracting Department, and caused serious school desk delivery problems. Also,
the Promotion Department's work was reoriented toward greater community involvement and
participatory processes, but the implementation of these changes was behind schedule due in part to
the iack of a department director.
41.    Lastly, while the Government maintains a strong commitment to FISE, it would appear that
over the past two years, FISE's operations have become susceptible to political pressure, which
apparently has affected normal programming, even though FISE's targeting goals were met.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
42.    Based on the achievement of the principal objective and FISE's implementation
performance as detailed in the preceding paragraphs, the outcome of the project was satisfactory.
FUTURE OPERATION
43.    SIF III would aim to support FISE's investment program for the period mid-1998 until
mid-2002, as well as institutional strengthening to build the capacity of municipalities and
communities, improve monitoring and evaluation, and support project management. The special
focus of IDA support would be on subproject sustainability, community participation,
decentralization, and special assistance for the indigenous population. Key performance indicators
would monitor the efficiency and equity in the allocation and use of resources, as illustrated by the
quantity and quality of FISE's investment subprojects in the poorest areas, FISE's contribution to
overall sectoral expenditures in priority sectors (education, health, water supply and sanitation),
number of participating municipalities and degree of beneficiary participation in the allocation of
resources ancl the operation and maintenance of subprojects (decentralization), and subproject
technical and financial sustainability, particularly for rural water supply subprojects (development
impact). The issues discussed in this report were fully addressed during the preparation of SIF III.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Positive Lessons Learned
44.    Since its creation in 1990, FISE has grown more complex, and has matured as an
institution. Among its major accomplishments has been the ability to institute a systemic change
from an emergency to a development response to the social infrastructure needs of the poorest areas
in Nicaragua. The close collaboration of major donors (IDA, IDB, and KfW) and FISE, including
joint missions, resulted in a shared strategy and common vision, which facilitated this change, even
though the impact of change on the institution and the rate at which change occurred were not fully
anticipated.
45.   Highly experienced senior management staff and their continuity have been, and continue
to be, absolutely critical to the success of the project. The continuity and competence of technical
staff is also important, because FISE is a highly specialized institution, and the skills acquired by its
technical staff over time cannot be readily obtained in the labor market. At the same time, the need
for intermediate-level staff, to be trained for management positions and to whom senior
management could delegate authority and responsibility as required, should not be overlooked.
Neither should internal staff training needs be neglected.
11



46.    Experience has shown that the increasing complexity of social investment funds in general
and FISE in particular requires substantial IDA supervision and the corresponding skills and
technical competencies needed to adequately monitor and evaluate implementation performance
and provide advice and guidance as required.
47.    The sustainability of investments is directly linked to beneficiary participation: the greater
the involvement of the community from the identification of a subproject to operations and
maintenance, the more likely sustainability is.  Whether resources to support subproject
sustainability are provided directly by FISE or indirectly through municipal governments, it is
essential that such resources are sufficient to the task.
Negative Lessons Learned
48.    FISE's operational efficiency is dependent on the abilities of its partner institutions to
provide the inputs needed for subproject operations and management. Strong partner institutions
(MED) have facilitated FISE's work; weak partner institutions (MINSA, INAA) have hampered it.
Institutional strengthening of FISE's partner institutions is a determining factor in implementation
performance. However, the parallel institutional strengthening of line ministries was more
complicated and slower than initially expected, requiring FISE to play a substantially greater role
than expected.
49.    Social investment funds have proven to be attractive public institutions, due mainly to their
transparent and efficient operations and their ability to mobilize resources. Nonetheless, SIFs
operate in a political environment which involves pressures of a political nature on decision-making
that may be inescapable. Therefore, although difficult, it is necessary to resist political interference
in the allocation of resources to subprojects whether by type or geographic area. In the case of
Nicaragua, FISE met its geographic targeting goals for resource allocation through 1997, but the
perception and/or actual influence of political pressures on decision-making appears to have
disrupted normal programming, and could have a negative impact on confidence in the institution
and on implementation performance.
50.   Implementation was somewhat affected by coordination problems. Poor coordination
between FISE and other government institutions caused implementation delays. In addition, poor
coordination within FISE resulted in inadequate internal communications and a lack of consensus in
decision-making.   Better and increased communication, including team-building and the
establishment of feedback mechanisms, will be vital toFISEs success in the future.
51.    The difficulties in the water supply and sanitation sector were underestimated, despite the
recognition that critical deficits exist, especially in rural areas. In the future, greater resources will
be required to progress in this key sector.
52.    The depreciation of the SDR and consequent 11.4 percent reduction in FISE's investment
program covered by the credit persuaded FISE that multiple currency credits could be risky.
12



Part Two: Statistical Data
A.    General Statistical Data
Table Al      Summary of Assessments
Table A2      Related IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
Table A3      Project Timetable
Table A4      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table A5      Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation (Credit 2767-NI),-
January 1, 1996 - June 30, 1998
Table A6a     Project Costs, January 1, 1996 - June 30, 1998
Table A6b     Project Financing, January 1, 1996 - June 30, 1998
Table A7      Status of Covenants
Table A8      IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table A9      IDA Resources: Missions
B.    FISE Project Data
Table B I    Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation by
Municipal Poverty Category, 1991 to 1997 (percent)
Table B2      Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation by
Municipal Poverty Category, January I to June 30, 1998 (percent)
Table B3      Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category, 1991 to
1997 (US$ million)
Table B4      Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category, January I
to June 30, 1998 (US$ million)
Table B5      Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category, 1991 to
1997 (percent)
Table B6      Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category, January 1
to June 30, 1998 (percent)
Table B7      Comparison between Targeted and Actual (Contracted) Sectoral
Distribution of Resources, January 1995 to June 30, 1998
Table B8     Number of Subproject Beneficiaries, Employment Generated, and Average
Subproject Cost, 1991 to June 30, 1998
Table B9     NGO Participation in the Subproject Cycle, 1991 to June 30, 1998
Table B 10   Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Type of
Executing Agencies, 1991 to June 30, 1998
Table B 1I    Amount and Uses of Funds by Year, 1991 to June 30, (US$ million)
Table B12     FISE Staffing, 1991 through June 1998
Table B13     FISE Procurement Methods by Type, 1993 to June 30, 1998
A:\REPORT.ICR
13



NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2767-NI)
Table Al: Summary of Assessments
.  Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial        Negligible     Not appliqabWo,
Macro Policies                                                                          X
Sector Policies                                                                         X
Financial Objectives                                                                    X
Institutional Development            X
Physical Objectives                  X
Poverty Reduction                    X
Gender Issues                                         x
Other Social Objectives              Xa)              Xb)             xc)
Environmental Objectives                              X
Public Sector Management                              x
Private Sector Development           X
Other (specify)                                                                         X
B. Project Sus emaibil                     Likely               Unlikely             Uncertain
C. Bank Peiformance           Highly Satisfadtory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                          X
Preparation Assistance               X
Appraisal                       x
Supervision                                            x
D. Borrower Perfonnance           |Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                             X
Implementation                                                X
Covenant Compliance                                           X
Operation (if applicable)                                     X
Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfory         Highly
B.' Asesment of Outcome              Satisfactory                                     ut.
x
a) Community participation
b) NGO participation
c) Indigenous concerns



NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2767-NI)
Table A2: Related IDA Credits
Health Sector Iteform (Cr.  Health sector reformn          FY93                    Ongoingl
2556-NI)l
Basic Education (Cr.     Improvement of efficiency         FY95                    Ongoingl
2689-NI)               and quality of pre-primary
and primnary education
Rural Municipalities (Cr.   Rural poverty reduction        FY97                    Ongoing
2918-NI)               and environmental
degradation
Health Sector            Improve effectiveness,            FY98                 Not yet effective
Modernization          efficiency and equity of
(Cr.3084-NI')          health services



NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2767-NI)
Table A3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned            Date Actual!
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Latest Estimate
Identification                                 November 1994       November 1994sm
Preparation
Appraisal                                      January 1995         January 1995
Negotiations                                   May 1995             May 1995
Board Presentation                                                  July 1995
Signing                                                            July 1995
Effectiveness                                  July 1995            April 1996
Midterm Review                                 September 1996       March/April 1997
Project Completion                                                  March 1998
Loan Closing                                   December 1997        June 1998
Table A4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
-;-_   ._--_______-_._          . FY 1996             FY.1997       -     -   118
Appraisal Estimate                   10.0                 15.00                5.0
Actual                                3.0                15.2                  8.4
Actual (as % of Estimate)           29.9                101.2                167.3
Date of final disbursement                                                 July 6, 1998
(i) Cumulative disbursements amounted to the equivalent of US$26.5 million, which, due to the depreciation
of the SDR currency basket, represented the fill credit of SDRI9.1 million.



NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2767-NI)
Table SA: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation
FISE Work Program
Jaunary 1995 to June 30, 1998
________=  u-.                        D=-I  -_
I                         I                                                I | TARGETS  I BASE JAN9)          R E A L       I
I        SNIDiCASOR       |     SOURCE     |           os.CTSVE                                                          - A
I                         I                 i                              |  OCT 96    I  DEC 97    ITo:30/06/98I   t   |
PROMOTION   &  APPRI                                                       t
1. Total number a amcuntj Promotion         Determine effective demand  l#Proj: 3,200 J#Proj: 3,412 I#Proi:3,02S1 88.6St%
5   requests that comply I Database          | for FISE financing and      I             I              I           I       l
w with elegibility        I                  | estimate FISE's promotion   lUS $ : 63.0 |US $ : 67.0 lUS S: 97.71L4582ta
f   and  appraisal        I                 I capacity                                   I              I           I       U
D   requeriments          I                                                I             I              I _         I
U                         I                 I                              I             I              I           I       I
2. Total number of       | Promotion       | Aesure that promotion        l#Prom:    10 l#Prom:    0 iProm:  l0|l00.0%ju
|   promoters             I Database        I Departament has enough       |             |              | _         |       |
I                         I                 i professionals                I             I              I _                 I
il                        I                 I                              I             I              I           I       II
3. Total number & amounti Sub-Project      | Determine FISE's appraisal  ItProj: 3,500 IYProj: 4,460 I#Proi:2,625I 5SO.Stl
|   of projects appraised[ Database         | capacity                     I             I              I           I       I
I                         I (Appraisal)     I                              JUS S   69.0  US S    84.0 |US S : 75.21 89.52%t
4. Total number of       I Sub-Project       Assure that Appraisal        jiEval:    IS I#Eval:     0 |#Eval:   131 86.66tIl
f   evaluators            I Database        I Departament has enough                     II                                 I
U                         I I                 professionals                II                                               U
R                         I                 I                              I             I              I           1       11
S 5. Total amount of      I Sub-Project     | Determine in percentage      |       < 20t t       4 10% I   1.88 %) 84.44%f
f   Reappraised project  I Database         Iterms the opportunity cost  |                              I           I | 
5   divided by total      I (ReAppraisall   I for project Reappraisal                    I |            |           |
a *mount of appraised  I                    |                              I             I             I            I       I
projects              I                 I                             I              I             I           I       I
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 I1 _.                                  _         _1 _                   1''
a                         RESOURCE  ALLOCATION   &   GEOGRAPHIC  TARGETING - BOARD - CONTRACTING                            5
6. Optimum number        I Sub-Project     I Determine possible           |#Proj:   320 i#Proj:  220 i#Proj:   44i 13.75%II
& & amount of projects I Database           I bottlenecks in financial    |       I                     I           I       I|
D   appraised in resourcel CRAC)            j procurement and measure the |US $ :e= 8.0 IUS S :<- 5.0 [US S : 2.01 2S.0o%9l
a allocation comitee   I                    I expected opportunity cost   |              |              |           1        1
II                        j                 | for future projects          I             I              I           I       U
| Reevaluation                I              I             I           I       I
7. Total number & amount] Sub-Project      I Determine FISE's project    I#Proj: 3.876 I#Proj: 4,936 I#Proj:2,7831 56. 38tl
D   of projects approved I Database         Iprocessing capability         I             I              I           I       I
D   by Board              I (Board)         I                              |US S    76.0 lUS $    95.0 0US S : 78.61 82.73%i1
I                                     1~~~~~~~                      1              I             I           I        a
8. Percentage of total  I Targeting        I Ascertain FISE's reaching   |        20.0t |       20.0% |    21.8 %1109.41%1
projects investment  I Database            Itargeting objectives          |             |                    I         I
approved in              I                                                I              I             I           I | 
municipalities with  I                                                    I              I             I           I i
i   extreme poverty       I                                                               i             I
9 9. Percentage of total    Targeting       | Ascertain FISE's reaching             57.0%        57.0t |     59.6 %I104.68%II
|   projects investment  | Database           t targeting objectives       i              I             I           |       U
I   approved in           I                                                               I             I                   U
municipalities with  I                                                 I             I             I           I
U   high  poverty         I                                                I             I              I           I
lio. Percentage of total  | Targeting       | Ascertain FISE's reaching   |        23.0t I       23.0% 1    18.4 %I 80.2O0%I
|   projects investment  | Database         | targeting objectives         |             I              1           |
a *pproved in             I                                                I             I              I           I       II
A municipalities with                                                      I                            I                   n
U   medium poverty        |                                                I             I              I           I       II
11                        I                 I                              I             I             'I           I       U
Ill. Percentage of total  | Targeting       | Ascertain FISE's reaching   |        16.0% 1       16.0% i    10.8 %I 67.5Stn
projects investment    L'atabase        targe:ing cbiecti'es         !              I             I                    I!
approved in MANAGU&  I                                                 I             j             I           I        U
( (part medium poverty I                                                   I             I              I           I       I
I   municipalities)       I                                                I             I              I           l |
n-                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                            A                                  n



D  I   I                       | TARGETS  ( BASE JAN95 95          R E A L
iI       INDICATOR               SOURCE      |          OBJECTIVE                          |
U                          I                 I                              |   OCT 96    I  DEC 97    1T0:30/06/'98 '        p
F ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ _________ --, o  _U   
U12. Total number 4 amountI sub-Project      | Determine possible           I#Proj: 3,500 jIProj: 5.558 I#PrOJ:2,3231 41.79ti
a   of projects with       I Database        I bottlenecks in procurement  I               I             I            I       I
a    financing contract   I                  I procedure                    lUS S : 69.0 |US 5   104.0 UlS   : 74.61 71.73q
112a.Amount and Number of I sub-Project      I Ascertain FISE's reaching   luProj: 1,740 I*Proj: 2,919 I#Proj:1,62 l SS.77%0
I   projects contracted  I Database          I sectoral targeting                          I             I            I       I
i    in the Education      I (Sectoral Alloc)|                              |US S : 24.3 Ils S * 38.451US S : 43.t1I12.a,%tI
Sector (HED-INAT C)                                                     I             I             I            I |
U                          I                 I                               I             I             l-           I       I
112b.Amount and Number of   Sub-Project      I Ascertain FISE's reaching   I#Proj: 1.433 I#Proj: 2.097 I*ProJ:  5641 26.8p%.
|   project contracted   | Database          i sectoral targeting            I             I             r            I       I
I    in the Health Sector I (Sectoral Alloc)I                                JUS 5 : 20.8 |US t    30.65108 $   12.01 39.1s51
1    (M.INSA-FONIP)        I                 I                               I             I                          I       1
R12c.Amount and Number of I Sub-Project      I Ascertain VISR's reaching   I#Proj:  2.44 1aProj:  252 f#Proj:   48| 19.04a%r
i   project contracted in| Database          I sectoral targeting            I             I             I            I       I
i    the Sewer & Water    I (Sectoral Alloc)l                                |US S : 10.5 lUS $ : lS.26|US S : 11.21 73.39%l
i   Sector (INAA)          I                                                 I             I             1            I       a
n                          I                 I                               I             I             I            I       I
1112d.Amount and Number of | Sub-Project     I Ascertain FISE's reaching   1#Proj:  164 l#Pro:   257 1aProj:   731 28.40%i
B    project contracted inl Database           s aectoral targeting          I             I             I            I       a
H    the Municipalities   I (Sectoral Alloc)I                               ls s : 11.3 1us S : 17.101US S z B.8| 51.46%1
I    Sector (INIFOMt)      I                 Ia
if                 ~         ~       ~~~                                                   ~ ~ ~~I  I    I  I  I    af
|12e.Amount and Number of I Sub-Project      I Ascertain FISE's reaching   1#Pro0:    19 1AProj:    33 IIPraj:   lO| 30.30%if
11   project contracted in| Database         | sectoral targeting            I             I             I            I       I
if   the Environmeneal    I (Sectoral Alloc) I                               luS   :  1.6 lUS S :  2.54|US 8 :  0.41 1S.74%i
1    Sector (KRENA3        |                 i                               1             1             |            |
11                                                  1                                      1 I1                 I         I 
H13. Total number of       I Contracting     I Assure that Contracting       Il#Pers:    13 lIPers:    0 169cr,:   III 84.61to
i    persons in the        | Personal        | fepartament has enough        I             I             |            I
if   contracting           I Database        | personnel                                   j             |
II   department
1114. investment per capita! Suproject       I Measure how close actual    IUS S    23.0 |US S : 35.0 IUS 5 : 24.21 69.14%JJ
1I   in municipalities      Database         | allocation are to targeted  J               I             I            I       n
f   with extreme poverty   (Territor.Alloc)l allocation                      |             I             I
11                                           I                                                                               a
IllS. Investment per capital Suproject       I-Measure how close actual    |US S    1:.0Os Us: 28.0 J.US    : 20.S| 73.21t||
0    in municipalities    I Database         I allocation are to targeted  I               I             |            I I     i
w with high poverty    I (Territor.Alloc)| allocation                        j                           |            I       i
Qa                                           I                               Ia      
Ql6. Investment per capital Suproject        I Measure how close accual    lUS S : 12.0 lUS S : 18.0 IUS :  ii.0| 61 .ll
a    in municipalities    | Database         I allocation are to targeted  j               I             j            I       n
g   with medium  poverty | (Territor.Alloc)l allocation                                    i             i            I       a
a                                                                            1             1                 
.s ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   J _  _ __ _ _ _ _   I                             1   __ _ __ _ _   .__ ___ __
a                                              SSUPERVISION   &   ADMINISTRATION                                               i
i17. Total cost of         j Contracting     | Ascertain how close total   |   c 10.00 t |    10.00 t |    -1.11 %l-11.10t1
11   contracted projects  | e ampraisal      | cost estimated are to                       I             I |                  U
11   divided by the total | cost estimate   | reality                        |             |             |                    II
I    estimated cost of    | Database                                                       I j
a    those same projects                                                     |                    1                   |       I
j    at  appraisal         I                 I                               I             I             I            i       n
faI. Total number & amountl Supervision      f Determine FrSE's production lUProj: 3,400 1#Proj: S.558 JMProj:2,48l1 44.76*11
U    of projects that havel Database         I capacity                      I             I             1             I       II
II   initiaded execution                     jUS                                      6 :7.0 IUS S : 104.0 IUS $ - 79.01 75.961ll
I                                                                  I        '                                         jI
i19. Total number & amount! Supervision      | How close Supervision        IjProj:   700 |SProj:      0 I*Proj:  5401 ,7.14'1
n    of projects in actuall Database         | Department's installed        I             I              I            I       11
I   execution              I                 | capacity is to reality        |US S : 15.0 lUS S  :    0 lUS 5 : 25S.0172.00WII
E                   '-                '              - _L__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _    __  _'_C



I                I                             I |STARGETS  tASE JAN 95) |            S A L
B        INDICATOR        |    SOURCs                  O 0BJECTIVE        I             |             |              -
I                         I                 I                             I  OCT 96    1  DEC 97    ITo:30/O0/9el   t
120. Number of total      I Supervision     I Determine Supervision       11Proj/Sup 30 I#Proj/Sup  0 I#P/S     31Il Si  s.1
projects in actual   I Personal        IDepartment's capacity to    I              I             I           I
o   execution over numberl Database         I handle its current          |tSup     17 INSuP       0  #ISup     171100.00*o
1   of superviaors        I                 I cormitments                 I             I             I           I       I
B                         I                 I                             I             I             I           I
121. Percent of total     I Supervision     I Determine possible          I  < 20.00 t           0 t 1   31.66 15S8.33V|
projects in actuwkl     Database       I bottlenecks in supervision  I             I             I _                 1 
|   execution with        |                 | department and possible     I             I             I           I      B
original contracted                    I I projects on critical path   I           I             I-
execution time       I                 I                             I             I             I           I 
overdue              I                 |                             I             I             I           I       I
I                         I         .                                     I             I             I           I      I 
122. Percentage of total  I Supervision     I Determine total t of the    I  < 20.00 % I t   20.00 t 1   32.51 V!l62.56S!
I   project investment   I Database         Inumber of projects with                    I             I           I       I
1   modified due to                         Iamount overruns              I             I             I           I       a
I   amount overruns                         I I                           |             I             I           I       |
I                         I                 I                             I             I             I           1 I
123. Ilumber & amount of   I Sub-Project    I Determine efficiency of     I#Proj:   68 I#Proj:    SS flProj:   3S1 63.61%i
1   projects actually    I Database         I project flow and quality    I             I             I           I       I
suspended due to     I                   of appraisal and            lUS 5    2.4 IUS $    2.0 IUW S : 1.71 S.00C3
contractors failure  I                 j supervision
to comply with       I                                                             I             I           I       B
I   contract requerimental                  i I                                         |
1   and specificatioas   I                  I                                           I             I I
124. Number & amount of   I Supervision     I Measure how close actual    I*Projt 2,700 1#Proj S.S03 I#Proj:2.4201 44.30%l
1   projects completed   I Database         I projects completed are to   I             I             I           I       I
total program of project    IUS $   52.0 IUS $  102.0 IUS $   66.31 6S.00%
terminated
"   I                 I                             i             I     ~      ~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  I  I
K25. Average executio:i        Supervision  I Determine efficiency of     Ildays:  120 I#days:   120 I#days:  1751145.84%I
-3  time of projects        Database        I project flow and quality    I             I             I           I       I
B   completed (days)     J                 i of appraisal and supervision)             I              I           I      B
126. Time span (days)       Supervision      Determine possible           Ildays:   10 10days:    10 IWdays:   161164.71%I
0   between contract        Database        I bottlenecks in the          I             I             I           I       I
s signing and first    i                      Supervision  And            I             I             I           I       U
1   disbursement          I                 I Administration Departments  I             I             I           I
||27. Accumulated         I Supervision and I Determine execution levels. 1US S : 64.0 JUS 5  103.0 JUS        3.SI 3.39%1
disbursements for    IAdministration  I balance to be disbursed &
the period           I Databases       Igeneral FISE capacity to    I              I             I           I       I
disbursed in a given time   I             I             I           |       I
period
|28. Percent of total     I Supervision and  Determine if program is      I    80.00 t        99.00   |    4.69 *I  4.7311J
1   disbursements to       Administration    on target for completion    I              I             I           I       I
tccal commitments      Dacabases       I                                           I             I           I 1 
Ii                        '                 '                             '             '                                 1'  
1)                            EMPLOYMENT GENERATION, PROJECTS QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLY                            |
2:9. Month employmant        ppraina; &     I Ascercain how close               30ao.oo t     90.00 {      69.88 %I 77.64tI
t   generated from        I Supervision     I appraisal employment        I             I             I           I       I
1   executed projects    I Databases        1 estimated are to reality    I             |             |           |     I
1   over month employmentl                                                              I             I           I       B
n   proyected at                                                                        I             I           I
I   appraisal             I                                                             I             I           I       B
11                        1                 1                             1I1                         1           1       il
E  '  '  '   '              '           '       C5



I                          I                  I                              I TARGETS  ( ASE JAN 9S)            R    AL 
|        INDICATOR         |    SOURCE                   O OaJEcTIvE         |                            I          _,
-  .~ ;  ;  _I. io   ._57 - To 30i04ia61 
130. Percent of total      I Supervision      I Mcnitor the quality of             80.00 | O      90 00        92.52  1102.S013
|    project executed      I Department       I executed project             I             I              |
w vith quality on or   I                                                     I |           |              I
I   above the norm         |                  |                              |             |              |
131. in what t of total   | Supervision       | Monitor the contractor's    |    90.00 t          90.00 |  t    92.40 11o2.6g. 0
I    executed projects    I Department        I fulfillment of environmentall               I             I                    R
|    has the contractor   |                   | requeriments of the          I              I             I _
O    met the environmentall                   i contracts
requeriments of the  |                   I                              I             I              |
contract
Note; indicators * 26 - 27, Last Update:  23/07/98        FroSt DFA. Server to  DINFOR Server
b)   For indicators  I  1.3,7,12.1415.1618.23,24,27,28.29 y 30.  real percentages in last column are determined
as a function of TriAnual's Program targets (Jan 9S - Dec 97 ).
c)   The upper table at right inside of page. shows the Program's number of Months available for each department
(Promotion, Acpraisal. Contracting, Supervision) to reach established program targets and the percentages
are the Real Time Program spend for each department at the time of the report. This allow quick comparisons
between real percentages of last column and real time program spend in order to determine if program is on
target for completion and in what section of the project cycle are the possible bottlenecks located. This
information is a valuable input for the managerial decision making process.
Printed 28/07/98 at 16:27:20



NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2767-NI)
Table A6a: Project Costs
January 1996 to June 30, 1998
Apprat        ai'e.1
A;,     [temn_                                        _        _    _     _    _  _    _
Local A '*Fogni   Total    -Loc            Foilgn-`   Total
Costs      Costs                 Cos:       Costs
I.     FISE
A.     Subprojects
1. social infrastructure                                            84.5  31.0         _115.5
2. economic infrastructure                                           7.6  4.0             11.6
3. environmer,tal improvement                                        0.7                   0.7
4. social assistance                                                22.9                  22.9
Subtotal      67.2       22.4       89.6      115.7  35.0           150.7
B.     Operating Costs
1. salaries and social benefits
2. travel and per diem
3. office expenses
4. transport
5. rent, maintenance, etc.
6. utilities
Subtotal       9.4        1.0       10.4        11.6                 11.6
Total FISE       76.6       23.4      100.0       127.3  35.0          162.3
II.    Maintenance Fund            0.7         0.2        0.9        0.9                   0.9
III.    LSMS (1)                   0.4        0.1         0.5        0.1        0.1        0.2
IV.    Institutional               0.4        0.6         1.0        0.8        1.3        2.1
Strengthening (2)
V.     Technical Assistance                                          1.1        1.1       2.3
for M:OE (3)
VI.    Financial Expenses                                            0.2        4.0        4.2
(4)
Total Project Cost (5)        78.1       24.3       102.4      130.5       41.5      172.0
(*)    Commitments, approved by FISE Administrative Council
(1)    Appraisal estimate of US$0.5 million, based on US$0.2 million from Cr. 2434-NI and US$0.3
million from Cr. 2767-NI.
(2)    From Cr. 2767-NI, KfW agreement 9567009, COSUDE, SIDA I and II.
(3)    From IDB Agreements 935/SF-NI and 1003/SF-NI.
(4)    From IDB Agreements 935/SF-NI and 1003/SF-NI
(5)    Net of taxes and duties.
FISE Finance and Administration Department, 07/30/98.



NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2767-NI)
Table A6b: Project Financinig
January 1996 to Juiie 30. 1998
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate(*)
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Source                                                               ____
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                 Costs      Costs
IBRD/IDA Cr. 2767-NI              22.0        8.0       30.0       20.1        6.5       26.5
IBRD/IDA Cr. 2689-NI                                                6.2        2.0        8.2
Cofinancing Institutions
IDB (1)                           26.9       11.4       38.3       65.0       25.0       90.0
Government of Germany-KfW          7.5        2.5        10.0       7.1         7.7      14.8
(2)                                                                 4.9        0.1        5.0
Government of Switzerland (3)
Subtotal      56.4       21.9       78.3       103.2       41.3     144.5
Other External Resources
SIDA (4)                           1.5        0.5        2.0        5.1        0.1        5.1
USAID (5)                          6.0        1.9        7.9        5.8                   5.8
OPEC (6)                                                            3.9        0.2        4.0
FCVCN (7)                                                           0.2                   0.2
Subtotal       7.5        2.4         9.9       14.9        0.2      15.1
Domestic Contributions
Government of Nicaragua (8)       10.3                   10.3       12.4        0.0      12.4
Beneficiaries (9)                  3.9                   3.9
Subtotal      14.2                   14.2       12.4        0.0      12.4
Total                  78.1       24.3      102.4      130.5       41.5      172.0
(*)    Commitments, approved by FISE Administrative Council
(1)    IDB Loan Agreements 935/SF-NI and 1003/SF-NI and ATN SF4735 NI.
(2)    KfW agreement 9567009.
(3)    COSUDE II
(4)    SIDA Agreements I and II.
(5)    PL-480 generated funds and 524 0341.
(6)    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
(7)    Fondos de Contravalor Canada-Nicaragua
(8)    Government of Nicaragua contributions in: Cr. 2767-NI, KfW 9266164, KfW 9567009, IDB
935/SF-NI, and IDB 1003/SF-NI.
(9)    May be in the form of cash, land, materials, or labor.
FISE Finance and Administration Department, 07/30/98.



Table A7: Status of Legal Covenants
Nicaragua
Second Social Investment Fund (Credit 2767-NI)
Agreement:   Section   Covenant Present  Original    Revised                 Description of                                   Comments
I ~~2767..       type  ~~Statu  fulfillment  fulfillment,               covenant
3.01 (a)      04       C                             Borrower shall fumish to FISE, funds,     Continuously
facilities and services required for the Project
3.01 (b)      03       C                             Borrower shall make proceeds of the credit  Continuously
available as a grant.
3.01 (c)       II      C                             Borrower shall exercise rights and obligations   Continuously
under Subsidiary Agreement.
3.01 (d)      09       C                             SIF shall carry out Project in accordance with   Continuously
the agreed performance indicators.
3.02          05       C                            Procurement to follow schedule 3.         Continuously
3.03 (a)      12       C    12/31/98   6/13/98      SIF shall prepare a plan for future operation of  Key points discussed during Supervision / Identification
the Project.                              Mission.
3.03 (b)      12       C                6/13/98     Borrower shall afford IDA opportunity to  Key points discussed during Supervision / Identification
comment.                                  Mission.
3.03 (c)       12      C                             Borrower and SIF shall implement plan.   Not due
3.05          05       C                             SIF shall process subprojects in accordance  Continuously
with Operational Manual.
3.06 (b) (i)  09        C                            SIF shall fumish semi-annual project progress   As scheduled
reports.
3.06 (b) (ii)    09    C                            SIF shall review standard regionalized unit  As scheduled
prices.
3.06 (c)      09       C    09/30/96   05/19/97     SIF shall carry out a mid-term review.    Complied with
3.06 (d)      05       C                             SIF shall take agreed corrective action.  Complied with
3.07          04       CP                            Borrower shall contribute USS3.5 million in    Borrower reduced 1997 counterpart funds by 15 percent,
1995, US$3.8 million in 1996, and US$3.0  and programmed a reduction in 1998 of 30 percent.
million in 1997.



Table A7: Status of Legal Covenants
(continued)
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present   Original          Revised                   Description of                                        Comments
2767                    type     Status  fulfillment   fulfilltnent                  covenant
Credit No.:                                     date         date
IDA-2767
(cont.)
3.08            05        C                               SIF shall properly target its investments.     Continuousl)'
3.09            09        C     03/31/98    12/31/98      Borrower shall carry out LSMS.                 Delayed: Expected completion date of December31,
1998.
4.01 (b) (i)    01        C                               Auditing of records.                           Annually for project financial audits and quarterly for
concurrent audit of subprojects.
4. 01 (b) (ii)    01      C                               Submit copies of audit reports to IDA.         Complied with. although delayed
4.02 (a)        01        C                                SIF shall provide for quarterly audit by      Complied with
independent auditors.
4.02 (b)        01        C                                SIF shall fumish quarterly audit reports to   Complied with
IDA.
5.01 (c)        05        C                               SIF shall maintain Chairman of Board.          Complied with
Executive Director and operational Directors
with acceptable experience and qualifications.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. -  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9.  = Monitoring. review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of prsiect finds             II. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntar, resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



Table A8: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned       |       Actual
Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$
Preparation to Appraisal            12                    31.6    117,830.00
Appraisal                           16                     6.8     19,416.00
Negotiations through Board Approval  8                     2.4      5,558.00
Supervision                         56                   122.7    111,326.00
Completion                           6                     6.0      7,992.00
TOTAL                              98                   169.5    262,122.00



Table A9: IDA Resources: Missions
Perfonnance Rating al
Nunber                                      Implementation      Development
Stage of       Month/       of       Days in      Specialized Skills       Status          Objectives                Types of
Project Cycle.    Year      Persons      Field       Represented b/                                                    Problems
Identification      11/94        4          16      A, F, I                                        -           Environmental assessment, water
supply component
Appraisal through   4/95         3          12      A, I
Board Approval                                                                                                                                l
Board Approval      8/95         1                  A                            S                  S
through
Effectiveness (I)
Board Approval      10/95        4                  A, B,.C, D                   S                 HS
through
Effectiveness (2)
Board Approval      3/96         4                  A, B, C, D                   S                 HS
through
Effectiveness (3)
Supervision (1)     9/96         3                  A, G                         S                 HS          Lack of NGO participation, focus
on indigenous groups,
environmental assessment, and
rural water supply.
al HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; HU=Highly Unsatisfactory.
bt A= Operations Specialist; B=Water and Sanitation Engineer; C=Community Participation Specialist; D=Procurement Analyst; E=Anthropologist; F=NGO Specialist;
G=Engineer; H=Environmental Specialist; I=lmpact/LSMS specialist.



Table A9: IDA Resources: Missions (cont.)
.PerfornanceRating  i`
Number                                         Implementation  I   Development
Stage of       Month/         of        Days in      Specialized Skills        Status;           Objectives',      :        Tp  of
'me       le       Yr        Persons       Field                n   di                                                        Probiczusit< -
Supervision (2)       4/97         3           35       A, B                          S                   S           Trade-off of quantity vs. quality
which could affect long-term
(Mid-Term                                                                                                             sustainability and social impact.
Review)
Supervision (3)       6/97         1            1       A                             S                   S
Supervision (4)       9/97         5           20       A                             S                   S           Lack of progress on dispersed
rural water
Supervision (5)       2/98         7           38       A, B, E, G, H                 S                   S           Lack of operational
environrmental unit; Lack of
attention to indigenous peoples;
Lack of strong leadership.
Completion            7/98         1            5       A                             S                   S           Political pressure
Notes:  (i) Additional supervision took place in the context of preparation activities for SIF III
(ii) Financial management and MIS specialists visited independently
Cl HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; HU=Highly Unsatisfactory.
di A= Operations Specialist; B=Water and Sanitation Engineer; C=Community Participation Specialist; D=Procurement Analyst; 'E=Anthropologist; F=NGO Specialist;
G=Engineer; H=Environmental Specialist; I=Impact/LSMS specialist.



Table BI: Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation
by Municipal Poverty Category
1991 to 1997
(percent)
Poverty Category       Number of         Percent of          Planned          Approved
Municipalities        Total            (1991)             (1997)
Population
Extreme                      42               18.40             20.0              22.07
High                         96               51.62             57.0              59.15
Medium                       9                29.99             23.0              18.78
Total                       147               100.0             100.0             100.00
Managua (1)                                   20.73             < 18.0            11.13
(1) Part of medium municipalities.
Note:  This table refers to approved subprojects only; the exchange rate is the one in effect at contracting;
population data is from the 1995 National Population Census; the 1995-1997 FISE poverty map was used;
and 4 recently created municipalities are included.
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.
Table B2: Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation
by Municipal Poverty Category
January 1 to June 30, 1998
(percent)
Poverty Category       Number of         Percent of         Planned           Approved
Municipalities        Total         (January 1998)      (June 1998)
l_______________      Population                                        l
Extreme                      44               17.09             57.20             36.51
High                         69               36.08             35.58             39.00
Medium                       34               46.83             7.22              24.47
Total                       147               100.0             100.0             100.00
Managua (1)                                   20.73             < 18.0             7.69
(1) Part of medium municipalities.
Note:  This table refers to approved subprojects only; the exchange rate is the one in effect at contracting;
population data is from the 1995 National Population Census; the 1998-2001 FISE poverty map was used;
and 4 recently created municipalities are included.
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.



Table B3: Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category
1991 to 1997
(US$ million)
Poverty Category      Percent         1991        1992       1993        1994        1995   |   1996         1997        Total
of Total
Population
Extreme
Amount approved                 18.40        1.71       2.63        4.80        4.94       10.58        8.05        6.78      30.49
Number of subprojects                         42         109         158         196         372        2.99         385      1,561
High
Amount approved                 51.62        8.56       9.77       15.53       12.38       22.43       19.01       18.90     106.59
Number of subprojects                        128         277         545         572         659         558         890      3,629
Medium
Amount approved                 29.99       4.44        2.46        5.01        3.94        6.05        7.02        4.79      33.70
Number of subprojects                         48          41         243         105         148         167         182        934
Total
Amount approved                100.00       14.70       14.86      25.34       21.26       39.06       34.08       30.47     179.78
Number of subprojects                        218         427         946         873       1,179       1,024       1,457      6,124
Managua (1)
Amount approved                 20.73       3.90        3.90        2.75        1.99        3.26        4.42        2.63      20.16
Number of subprojects                         37          37         169          26          76         115         115        550
Exchange rates used:
US$ 1.00 = C6rdoba                         4.3534      5.0000      6.1206      6.7245      7.5315      8.4366     9.4504      6.8024
(1) Part of medium poverty municipalities.
Note:  This table refers to approved subprojects only (subproject cycle stage 302); the exchange rate is the one in effect at the subproject cycle 302 stage; population
data is from the 1995 National Population Census; the 1995-1997 FISE poverty map was used.
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.



Table B4: Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category
January 1 to June 30, 1998
(US$ million)
Poverty Category     Percent         1998
Of Total
l _______________________  Population
Extreme
Amount approved                17.09        4.70
Number of subprojects                       130
High
Amount approved                36.08        5.02
Number of subprojects                        69
Medium
Amount approved                46.83        3.15
Number of subprojects                        58
Total
Amount approved                100.0       12.87
Number of subprojects                       257
Managua (1)
Amount approved                20.73        0.99
Number of subprojects                        21
Exchange rates used:
US$ 1.00 = C6rdoba                       10.3470
(1) Part of medium poverty municipalities.
Note:  This table refers to approved subprojects only (subproject cycle stage 302); the exchange rate is the one in effect
at the subproject cycle 302 stage; population data is from the 1995 National Population Census; the 1998-2001
FISE poverty map was used.
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.



Table BS: Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category
1991 to 1997
(percent)
l    P o Poverty Category  Percent       1991        1992       13         1994        1995       19          1997       Total
of Total
l __________________     Population                                                                                  _
iExtreme
Amount approved               18.40      11.62       17.71      18.94      23.23       27.09      23.61       22.25      21.96
Number of subprojects                     19.27      25.53      16.70      22.45       31.55      29.20       26.42      25.49
High
Amount approved               51.62      58.22       65.76      61.30      58.24       57.43      55.78       62.03      59.29
Number of subprojects                    58.72       64.87      57.61      65.52       55.89      54.59       61.08      59.26
Medium
Amount approved               29.99      30.17       16.54      19.76      18.53       15.48      20.61       15.72      18.74
Number of subprojects                    22.02        9.60      25.69      12.03       12.55      16.31       12.49      15.25
Total
Amount approved              100.00     100.00      100.00     100.00      100.00     100.00      100.00     100.00     100.00
Number of subprojects                    100.00     100.00     100.00     100.00      100.00      100.00     100.00     100.00
Managua (1)
Amount approved                          26.55        8.09      10.86       9.36        8.35       12.97       8.64      11.22
Number of subprojects                     16.97       2.81      17.86       2.98        6.45       11.23       7.89       8.98
(1) Part of medium poverty municipalities.
Note:  This table refers to approved subprojects only (subproject cycle stage 302); the exchange rate is the one in effect at the subproject cycle 302 stage; population
data is from the 1995 National Population Census; the 1995-1997 FISE poverty map was used.
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.



Table B6: Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category
January 1 to June 30, 1998
(percent)
Poverty Category     Percent         1996
Population
Extreme
Amount approved                17.09       36.51
Number of subprojects                      50.58
High
Amount approved                36.08       39.00
Number of subprojects                      26.84
Medium
Amount approved                46.83       24.47
Number of subprojects                      22.56
Totsd
Amount approved               100.00      100.00
Number of subprojects                     100.00
Managua (1)
Amount approved                20.73        7.69
Number of subprojects          ,8.1l
(1) Part of medium poverty municipalities.
Note:  This table refers to approved subprojects only (subproject cycle stage 302); the exchange rate is the one in effect
at the subproject cycle 302 stage; population data is from the 1995 National Population Census; the 1998-2001
FISE poverty map was used.
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.



Table B7: Comparison between Targeted and Actual (Contracted) Sectoral Distribution of Resources, January 1995 to June 30, 1998
Targeted (1995-1997)        Percent of Target       Actual (1995-June 1998)        Percent of Actual
Type of Subproject                   No. Proj.    US$ MM        No. Proj.     US$ MM       No. Proj.     US$ MM        No. Proj.    US$ MM
Social Infrastructure                      1,363         60.73        24.52         58.52        2,375        117.01         41.08        66.88
Primary and Pre-primary Schools              739         26.72        13.29         25.83         1,702        69.51         29.44        39.71
Secondary Schools                             43          3.53         0.78          3.39          129         13.01          2.23         7.44
Vocational Training Centers                   13          1.24         0.24          1.19           30          2.84          0.52         1.62
Health Posts                                 272          5.11         4.89          4.92          301          8.32          5.21         4.75
Health Centers                                83          6.67         1.49          6.48           55          3.43          0.95         1.96
Hospitals (areas)                              0          0.00         0.00          0.00            2          0.16          0.03         0.09
Old-age Homes and Shelters                    16          0.98         0.28          0.94           16           1.47         0.28         0.84
Child Care Centers                            48          1.52         0.87          1.46           44          2.30          0.76          1.32
Potable Water                                120         11.74         2.17         11.21           52          7.21          0.90         4.12
Sewerage                                      29          3.24         0.52          3.12           44          8.76          0.76         5.01
Economic Infrastructure                      257         17.11         4.62         16.44          326         30.38          5.64        17.37
Drainage                                      24          2.42         0.43          2.33           44          5.23          0.76         2.99
Road Improvement                             108          6.83         1.95          6.52          239         21.61          4.13        12.35
Bridges                                       18          1.13         0.32          1.10           15          1.82          0.26         1.04
Municipal Markets                             46          4.89         0.83          4.73            8          0.77          0.14         0.44
Slaughterhouses                               49          1.35         0.89          1.31           14          0.49          0.24         0.28
Other                                         11          0.48         0.20          0.46            6          0.47          0.10         0.27
Environmental Improvement                     33          2.54         0.59          2.45           18          1.60          0.31         0.91
Reforestation                                 26          2.27         0.47          2.19           18          1.60          0.31         0.91
Other                                          7          0.27         0.13          0.26            0          0.00          0.00         0.00
Social Assistance                           3905         23.63        70.26         22.58        3,062         25.96         52.97        14.84
Education Equipment                          788          4.15        14.17          3.99         1,143        10.11         19.77         5.78
Health Equipment                            1038          5.41        18.68          5.21          387          0.55          6.69         0.31
Latrines                                    295           7.57         5.31          7.12          383         12.47          6.63         7.13
Preventive Health                           210           3.16         3.78          3.04          117          1.48          2.02         0.84
Community Organization Training              836          1.48        15.04          1.42          944          1.15          16.3         0.66
Water Committees Training                    103         0.28          1.86          0.27            0          0.00          0.00         0.00
Nutrition/Feeding Program                      0          0.00         0.00          0.00            0          0.00          0.00         0.00
Other                                        635          1.57        11.42          1.53           88          0.20          1.52         0.11
Total                                       5558     104.00(1)  100.00             100.00        5,781        174.95        100.00       100.00
(I) Total resources exceed project costs at appraisal to reflect additional resources that might become available from external donors. FISE Information Systems Department, 07/28/98.



Table B8: Number of Subproject Beneficiaries, Employment Generated, and Average Subproject Cost, 1991 to June 30, 1998
Sector                  1991        1992        1993        1994       1995        1996         1997        1998       Total
Social Infrastructure
Amount (US$ million)                    3.14        5.18       11.96       16.55       23.85       21.57       27.07        7.69      117.01
Number of subprojects                     88         130         290         401         396         335         581         154       2,375
Number of beneficiaries                96,375     125,787    303,878     773,425     705,641     267,161     343,478     116,531   2,732,276
Employment generated                   2,966       5,699      23,656      28,440      51,746      45,097      59,853      15,347    232,834
Average subproject cost                35,702     39,857      41,235      41,277      60,238      64,380      46,588      49,938      49,269
Economic Infrastructure
Amount (US$ million)                     8.79       3.77         1.39       3.65        3.96        3.95        4.87        0.00       30.38
Number of subprojects                     98          41          19          43          52          34          38           1        326
Number of beneficiaries               328,937     35,629      26,845     704,729     389,998     228,465     369,958       7,397   2,091,958
Employment generated                    4,298      2,013        1,929      5,809       6,795       7,228       7,990           1      36,063
Average subproject cost                89,709     97,027      73,060      84,827      76,189     116,206     128,100         537      93,195
Environment
Amount (US$ million)                    0.00        0.92        0.00        0.06        0.22        0.19        0.22        0.00        1.60
Number of subprojects                      0           5           0           1           2           8           2           0          18
Number of beneficiaries                    0         100           0         500       1,857      14,479         627           0      17,563
Employment generated                       0          65           0         146       1,006         612         775           0       2,604
Average subproject cost                 0.00      183,588       0.00      61,445     197,846      23,177     108,159        0.00      88,712
Social Assistance
Amount (US$ million)                    0.27        3.44         1.73       4.75        5.84        7.17        2.41        0.35       25.96
Number of subprojects                     28         219         266         630         749         374         678         118       3,062
Number of beneficiaries                    0       8,237     147,570   1,309,957     871,299     351,910     177,857      25,501   2,892,331
Employment generated                     330         360       5,257       6,791       8,186       7,557       3,819         345      32,645
Average subproject cost                9,627       15,724      6,494       7,539       7,797      19,173       3,577       2,968      8,479
Total Amount (US$ million)              12.20      13.32       15.07       25.01       33.87  32.87            34.56        8.04      174.96
Total No. of Subprojects                 214         395         575       1,075       1,199        751        1,299         273      5,781
Total No. of Benericiaries           425,312     169,753     478,293   2,788,611    1,968,795    862,015     891,920     149,429   7,734,128
Total Employment Generated             7,624       8,137      30,842      41,186      67,733      60,494      72,437      15,693    304,146
Note: This table refers only to contracted subprojects.
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/29/98.



Table B9: NGO Participation in the Subproject Cycle
1991 to June 30, 1998
NGO Role            Number of       Number of                 Total (US$       %
NGOs         Subprojects                 million)
Subproject Sponsor                   140            248        11.0         15.68      64.50
Subproject Formulation                17           1,155     511.24          4.61      18.96
Subproject Executor                   17            848       37.62          4.02      16.53
Subproject Supervisor                  1              3        0.13                     0.01
Total                      175           2,254     100.00         24.31     100.00
Note:  Refers to subproject cycle stage 100 (does not included canceled subprojects); exchange rate is 'based on
subproject cycle stage 460 (contracting).
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.
Table B1O: Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Type of Executing Agency
1991 to June 30, 1998
Executing Agency        Number of       Number of        %        Total (US$      %
Executing     Subprojects                 million)
Agencies
Construction firms                   126            684       10.72         40.79      22.15
Individual contractors             1,060           3,686      57.77        119.32      64.79
NGOs                                  17            848       13.29          4.02       2.18
Others (1)                            89           1,163      18.23         20.05      10.89
Total                    1,292           6,381     100.00        184.18     100.00
(1) Others include construction foremen.
Note:  Approved refers to subproject cycle stage 302; exchange rate is based on subproject cycle phase 460
(contracting).
FISE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.



Table Bll: Amount and Uses of Funds by Year
1991 to June 30, 1998
(US$ million)
1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     Total
Approved funding     10.55     12.65    14.39    24.67     31.70    25.61     86.63     59.71   265.91
Project costs        10.55    12.64     14.33    23.35     31.42    30.43     33.32     14.63   170.67
Administration        0.50     1.23      2.80     2.96      3.24      3.45     4.06      2.09    20.33
Total disbursements    11.05   13.87    17.13    26.31     34.66    33.88    37.38      16.72   191.00
FISE Finance and Admirtistration Department, 07/28/98.
Table B12: FISE Staffing
1991 to June 30,1998
Classification    1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997      1998
Professional
Management             11        12       12        12       12        12        13       12
Technical              17       29        49        62       67        72       86        88
Subtotal      28        41       61        74       79        84        99      100
Support                23       31        45        52       60        62       79        79
Total            51        72       106      126       139      146       178      179
FISE Finance and Administration Department, 07/24/98.



Table B13: FISE Procuremeot by Type
1993 to June 30, 1996
(US$ million)
Direct Contracting                    Local Shopping                   Public Bidding                        Total
Year    No. of      No. of    Amount    No. of       No. of    Amount    No. of       No. of    Amount    No. of       No. of    Amount
PrqI^co   c,A - fc   I *JCMM    P.^je,   Cnracft-!-^ UT_ .o  $^W.-        C-Onft e 1TCe.            '*3 C              ISAU_ .. w^
1993          397        316       4.03         99         98       5.55        79          70       5.50        575        484      15.07
1994          904        591      10.86         59         59       3.29        112        107       10.86     1,075        757      25.01
1995          926        590      10.49        145        145       9.40        128        128       13.99     1,199         863     33.87
1996          236        195       4.65        145        330      10.06        163        135       18.16       752         660     32.87
1997          246         38       0.58        353        481      12.15       205         159      21.83      1,299        678      34.56
1998           46         28       0.26        848         67       1.68        86          53       6.11        273         148      8.04
Todal       2,755       1,758     30.86        141       1,180     43.13        773        652       76.45      5,173      3,590    149.44
Note: Procurement data was not computerized until 1993. This table refers to contracted subprojects only (subproject cycle stage 460).
FtSE Information Systems Department, 07/30/98.



FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA
FISE
Ayuda Memoria
Nicaragua
Misi6n de Cierre
Cr6dito AIF/2767 - NI
Managua, 31 de Julio de 1998
1.    Entre el 27 y el 31 de Julio de 1998, se realizo la misi6n de " Cierre N del credito 2767 - NI
por /a senora Anna Kathryn Vandever Webb consultora del Banco Mundial. El objetivo de la
mision fue realizar una evaluaci6n retrospectiva sobre la implementaci6n lograda en la
ejecucion del segundo Proyecto de inversibn social contenida en el credito, a traves de
entrevistas, revisi6n de documentos y reuniones de trabaio.
2.    En forma resumida se pueden mencionar los siguientes logros principales obtenidos por FISE:
2.1   La distribuci6n focalizada de los recursos realizada en una forma justa y equitativa en
base a los distintos niveles de pobreza existentes en el Pals.
2.2   Una alta capacidad de la Instituci6n para generar y captar recursos externos en base
a necesidades expresadas por la Comunidad, habiendo superado en un 68 % al total
del financiamiento previsto en el Documento de Proyecto elaborado para la
justificaci6n del credito.
2.3   Conforme los objetivos del Proyecto, se logr6 aumentar la competitividad en la
formulaci6n y ejecuci6n de obras, pues se observ6 un incremento en el nomero de
contrataciones realizadas mediante las modalidades de concurso de precios y
licitaci6n publica.
2.4    Como producto de lo indicado anteriormente, el Proyecto ademas de fortalecer la
capacidad administrativa de los ejecutores de obras, tambien ha contribuido al
desarrollo de las industrias afines del sector privado como son la industria de la
construcci6n de materiales y el sector transporte.
2.5    Como logro importante se observa un notable incremento en la participaci6n de
Ong's en la ejecuci6n de Proyectos, principalmente en las tareas de micro
planificaci6n como instrumento efectivo para lograr la participacion de /a ciudadanta
en la identificaci6n, gesti6n, supervisi6n y sostenibilidad de sus obras.
2.6    En materia de divulgaci6n la Unidad de Comunicaci6n Social ha logrado una mejor
comunicaci6n con los Solicitantes de Proyectos en Io relacionado a los programas de
ejecuci6n de FISE. Adicionalmente se han efectuado talleres de capacitaci6n sobre
los aspectos relacionados a la micro planificaci6n tanto con los tecnicos de las
1                                       .



distintas Munkipalidades participantes, como con los supervisores externos de obras.
2.7    La creaci6n de la unidad de Medio Ambiente, ha permitido que los Proyectos
cumplan con las regulaciones oficiales del Pais para /a conservaci6n y protecci6n del
med'io ambiente. Tambidn esta unidad ha participado activamente en talleres de
capacitaci6n para entrenar al personal tecnico, tanto interno como extemo de FISE
que participa en la formulaci6n, ejecuci6n y supervisi6n de obras.
2.8    Fortalecimiento del proceso de inversi6n del Pais, habiendo obtenido un 65% de
participaci6n con relaci6n a! total de inversi6n social realizada en el Pals durante
1996 siendo relevante ia ejecucion del 99% de las inversiones en educaci6n y el 25%
de lis realizadas en el sector Salud.
2.9    Administraci6n eficiente y transparente en el destino de los recursos obtenidos.
3.    Entre las debilidades detectadas en la ejecuci6n del credito, podemos mencionar lo siguiente:
3.1    La coordinaci6n inter institucional no ha sido la mas adecuada, afectando esta
condici6n la ejecuci6n de Proyectos. Aspectos vitales sobre planificacion y normaci6n
tecnica de cada sector, no han sido totalmente definidos provocando duplicidad de
esfuerzos en favor de obtener la mejor soluci6n tecnica.
3.2    La micro planificaci6n es realizada dentro del contexto estrategico del Cobiemo para
impulsar la descentralizaci6n y autonomfa de los Gobiemos locales y requiere de un
fuerte acompaniamiento institucional para garantizar en los Municipios la
sostenibilidad de estos procesos. Al respecto Inifom que es la lnstituci6n oficial
designada para este objetivo, no cuenta con la capacidad operativa necesaria para
realizarlo, siendo esta circunstancia un riesgo especffico sobre las tareas emprendidas
por FISE.
3.3    A pesar de que este tema ha sido abordado en muchas ocasiones, no se observan
avarnces significativos en la ejecuci6n de Proyectos de agua potable y saneamiento
busico en el sector rural disperso por falta de normas tecnicas entre otras causas. Con
el animo de superar esta debilidad, FISE ha iniciado unos Proyectos pilotos que le
permiitan sobre una experiencia prActica, proponer alternativas de normaci6n tecnica
para su aprobaci6n a Inaa/Enacal que es /a Instituci6n rectora de este sector.
3.4    Relativo a la atenci6n de grupos etnicos existentes en el Pais, se lograron desarrollar
Proyectos en estas Comunidades conforme el men6 de FISE, sin embargo en base a
las caracteristicas de esta poblaci6n, sera necesario considerar en las futuras acciones
de IISE, la incorporaci6n de nuevos tipos de Proyectos en su men6 acordes a las
necesidades de estas Comunidades.
3.5    La reducci6n del monto del credito 2767-NI en aproximadamente 11.4% debido a la
prcdida cambiaria del SDR afecto significativamente la implementaci6n del programa
reduciendo el nivel de cobertura esperado.
2



4.    Como un logro positivo de otro componente del Proyecto, se menciona la realizaci6n en este
atio por el Inec de la encuesta de hogares (LSMS 98), y /a encuesta del FISE cuyos resultados
preliminares se estaran publicando a finales de 1998 y serviran de base para las acciones
estrategicas del Gobierno y FISE en favor de la atenci6n a los grupos poblacionales mas
necesitados del Pals.
5.    Esta misi6n agradece la cooperaci6n brindada por el personal de FISE y se entregaron todas
las indicaciones y lineamientos necesarios para la elaboraci6n de su informe sobre la
evaluaci6n del Credito a ser enviado al Banco Mundial el pr6ximo 30 de Agosto de 1998.
Managua, 31 de Julio de 1998.
tarlosI176guera / P.          Anna Kathryn Vandever Webb
Direct6t Ejecutivo/                                     Consultora
Banco Mundial
3



87Z                                  86'                                   85                                  84                                   83                                   820
15'                                                                                                     H                                                                                                                            1 N D U R A S  15
NICARAGUA
AREAS OF POVERTY
Puerto                                                      IA s |^ X~iW q3i6os
1IA'                                   To Tngscigolpa                                                                                                                                                                                140k Cbea
POVERTY          PERCENT OF       NUMBER OF
CLASSIFICATION      POPULATION    MUNICIPALITIES
* EXTREi _ i]11 1 L wiME-<,>> PO POVERTY                                                                                                                                                             17             44
3'%,      Wootnh,            [177   HIGH POVERTY                  36             69
MEDIUM AND                 A7             34
4.                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LESSER POVERTY  100%  147
-I~~~~~~~~~T
Cho0ute 20    40    60    80  I  San                                                                                                                             CITIES AND TOWNS
To                                                                                                                  (E)~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
Choh,teca   (  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~'                                    :y'                              * ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
130
-.-- DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
>  rhe boundories colors denominations ond anyolher informoson shown   SrwnATLANTIC                                                             Note: overty Classification
The poverty clif.iFIc5i..i.bdS a,,-hide. Mot i~ prepared osing
mcf. ontion on child mdo-trition, nccess      wa oer -o, and the
re-_t of Nic-rg.'s political nd econoic difficultie,.
12a                                                                                                                                                                                 83                                    82 83A
Son                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
La Boqui  NADA                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TNE BAHAMAS
CUBA          DOMINICAN
HAITI) REP.
0 20    40    60    80   1 00   120                                                                                                                                                        JAMAICA
____________________________SanJ_an__as_B_nc_sMEXICO   *. 'ELIZE
San Juan del So  giias Blancas                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HONDURAS
KILOMETERS                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUATEMALA/,.
10This mop vas prodoced by the Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                        ELSLAORT            ARI A GUA
>       The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown        To Son Jos-PNMA                                                                                                                     VENEZUELA-
C:  on this msap do not imply, on the port of The Worldi Bank Group, any                            CPANTAAMAC
judgment on the legal statu,s of any territory, or any endorsement or                          COS A             I  AI`
-5  acceptance of 500h boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                         COLOMBIA
8,70                                  8,60                                  815                                   84'                                                                    F','    RZ L'
co,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



IBRD 29716
NICARAGUA                                R5a                                                                                       _Ar                                          03R                                                      MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
-15-                      SIF   ~~~~~III PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                1-RA                                  'D.p.-tso C.pkIt         "Notio-I Cop to'
Municipal Micro - Planning on the Atlantic Coast                                                                                                                                                                                                 'PUERTO CAA                             CHINANDEGA                        MASAYA
-                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 Bo--s       53  STooPedtodelNo..            102  Tatto
4Ro,,jo                           54  Ci-ooP-n                    103  NKndr
MUNICIPALITIES PILOT MICRO - PLANNING                                                                                                    '-S,--1                                                                              S u55  S.o  "Tomotsdd.Noon                                     '104  MAASAVA
6 Wos.lol                         36  Don Ft-niso d. Node         105  L. C-oteooM
MUNICIPALITIES MICRO - PLANNING                                                                                                                                                                                             7 P--,Ik                          57  Sonnotillo                  106  mo t
co>tos                                                  58  Villonos                    107  Non,dos-
MICRO  PLANNING UNDER OTHER DEPARTMENTS                                                                                                                                                             Misquios                  RAAS                            59  To-b                        108  Nqquono.oo
=        PAVED ROADS                                                HR                                                                                                                                                                  La Cs  RioGnd                   60  EN DEGA                     109  CotCrood
9 EooonodePoooas        '~~~61C CANNE110  D-nJ-ood. ,Oooo
UNPAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                     -19-                                                                      0 M-odo PHe   - lo oys6                 hioho2olpo
250    MUNICIPAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                          11 El Ro..o                        63  P.,o11.1  CARAZO
12 KoonHill                        64  IEolej Rill.  S-oMono
iVj    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                       13W'-   P.4.                        65  Crotm                       112  Di-obo
*     NATIONALCAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                             14 ELUEFIELDS                                                      113  DWoInS
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 5Noe_ou  i nmoo                       L6N                       '114  JINOTEPE
14'  DEPARTMENT EOUNDARIET                                                                                                              IC                                  Er         16 ElToonaRoeto                     66  AoFoopo                     115  HRosooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6E T   ..  6   k.p  15   l    d,
vJ   DEPARTMENTEBOUNDARIES                     { tJv                  ,/                                             JCE                                                  '                                     14        1 7 Des-mboodiod.17Riod Ronde      67  ElS  ce                     116  L PoodoCoro
1 8R.-ttCoy                        68  SnotoRosJdelPiTn            Ill  SontoT.-e
TIERNATIONALBOUNDARIES               y               27                                                                                                                                                                  19 Cn kIS                           RomoCcw 69  El-l J1 L.C9o-olsnh6 E1
JINOTEGA                        71  Tel00                            GRANADA
20 Wiaoli                 ~~~~~~~72  OROONon             '119  GRENNADA
21 Los Prde- _73  LEON                                             120  DKo
22 El Co                           74  L. P_aC.noo                 12 1  DOrooto
sN   Cooio ></~  _>\ '22 Dan Soboson ReYVoll  75  N=gotot          122  Nondoote
23 So,, R6afo,, deNo1e
25 L.. Rc6n1otdi .                     MAYAOALPA                         RIVAS
CWuu,c.                                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26 JINOTELSA.  76  R-nh.tG-ode  122  ToN.
26 JINOTEGA              ~77  La Dolr                     124  Bel1n
g  53                 / 20/   d P! <_  _ (                                                                                                                                                                                           2> _ z 7 0 NUFVA SEGOVIA  777 SLo WDo  1125  P.otos
</R4                                                                                                                                                                                           27 Jul         r , 279  MEATAGSALPA                                126  Set Aos
28 S.,,,, l                        SO MDooRaAn                     127  Soniooe
29 Moaoo81  Ri. RII=t                                             '128   IA
30 Dopoh                           82  DEboto12   MoYo.oP.
7                                                                      0 a                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'31 OCOTAL  83  CiuHdd DoVo  130  Altgrc
13'                                            4  Tet6obono                   131  Sn Jnioool Su
t    r            7                                                                                     016A                          IT                                                  33 S.,, FBy  Sl                         Sn Di W.132 C628o3
0                                                 24 CiuH.  Aotuo                     86  Es,oopolos
82 974704                                                                                                                                                                                                    M, M,#VA                         CHONTALEStT9UA  A 4  '  MEXIC3C od8 M 7A
,,.                                                                                                                                                                      35 GudXJ S.,,.t,,. 3MoogL6s                                         123  C ot. ooo
30 COSTA RICA l<,,= 2                                                                                                                                                               i o14  JU;ALPA
62                                                                                                                                                             IA~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADREZ  89  S.,n)oshd.Las.enR.-.  136  Santo DorooNg
95                                                                                                                               '39 SCM~~~             ~          ~~~~~~~~~              ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otogo  '91 ROACO  158 S.- T..D,
180~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                   1399V DOMSOTd
40 Vslogoioo                92 TeSt_e19Vt  odn
41 Polo-gujno                      93D=       - Loeo140  Acoop
42 Telpne-                         94  C -ooP.
M.                                                                                 13                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42 Don Joo ad Rio C-c                  RiO SAN JUAN
12 0                                                           4AoLuoo                             9MANAGUA                       141  M-o~
-  1                  ~~~~~019                      45 Lussob1n-s                       95        ~ DoPoosobte          142  El Aloosndn
37                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46 SD,,tJos6HdeCosnro  96  TP[topo           143  S- Moqo-li
97  Mot,-r.                   '144  SAN CARLOS
is'  Li SAN  101           FerDetoiI                     II                                                                                                                               RETELl                          98  VoRoConlosPonseosA          145  EooodeSoboloo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETEI  3   ,l 06   -.A  45Bu. . ~61.
-12-  EAN                                                                                                                 14                                                    12~~~ ~~~~~~~~~                 ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.  47Poo61 Nou-  98  Son Roloel d.1 Dot  146  S- Jot de  or
98                                                                                                                                                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8"10tNAD
Pci'                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~4: Son Jose a. Linny   101  Toootep
VA                                                                       8~~~~~~~~~~~y ~~~j'50 ESTELI
104  128                                                                                                                                                                           19       -                                                  is'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6   2
19                     VA0.                           Nkamguo                   sfl                                          / ~~~~~~~~~27MEXICC(YZ                                                                                              R~EUZE
8                                                                                                                                                                                                            ODATENL5UA.,' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G,.HOUkD
508  '                                                                                                  0       20       40       AD       SE                                            '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j   t""'  14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
120                                                                                                                    0       20       AO       60      so      100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  EL    -.A
Ii' ~ ~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 12  I  I  SALVADOR
127,                                                                                                                                            4     l~tseerepsoelpenoe9LORePHCe                                                                           D                             COSTA RICA   pANAMA          Io--
06'  -               ~~~~~~COSTA    RICA
0,7'                                                                                       83'                                           84'                                                                                                                                    6             ~CLMI
SEPTEMEER1"



IBRD 29717
NICARAGUA                            86'                                       85'                                       84'                                      83                                                   MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
SIF  III PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                       15-           AN                   'SpoeoC.pito          "osn  Copool
Ethnolinguism    in   RAAN - RA           S                                                                                                                                                           S PRTO CAEAHINANDOGA                                              MASAYA
Ethnolinguism  in RAAN    RAAS                                                                                                                              3p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  53 SooP~~~~~~~~~~~~dsoodNoo~~~~  3  - ,,,.dI10.103
4 RO,TO                ~~~~~~~54GCi- Pioo-           103  Nmdm
MISKiTO (PPp. 125,000j                  250    MUNICIPAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                              5S,0                            565 SoUoTo60co  N..           14   TSY
SPAN SEH po,p~ 195,000)                         D EPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                           57 Socco. Lj,i-o IN.         106  I-0505.,-
STAYANGNA (pop. 1T 2711                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                           CaosS  Vill-eo                                                                    107  Ndoco-
PT'                                                                                                        Misquitos               RAM                           59 Tooclo                     108  Nqooolsosoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iuios59T .i.10   Nuih
U  ENGLISH SPEAKING CREOLE (pop AA,432)             MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                            aRAAS LCcoR,Ooo                 0   Ii~10    ooo
A      RAM. (pop 1,700)                                DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                         109 R-Pood. P.,-,                61 CHINANDEGA                 110  SMoJ-odoOoo
- - INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                       1  NI 6loBeps62 Chii,hi,. p.
GATIFONA (p.p 3,700                                                                       J1 El,ococ d.I,B..                                                                                                                                    3P.g                              CARAZO
12 KLoHil6   E Reoljo                                          1   Son M.opo
-   PAVES ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                      3K.Hl65  Coo0-18   Do,U
13LP,- d. Pi.o,13Dooe
CNPAAES ROADS  H   0   N   D  U  R  AS  .-*                                                                                                               14 EsUREELDS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLEFEDS3    .
UNPAVED ROADS  HONDURAS                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~              ~            ~~~~           ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15 N-:Gim,.  UlEI!  14 JINOTEPE
T.                   6~~~~~6 A,k-po               115  ElRoc...co
10  NoT'* ~~~~~~~~~    Ao5o 3 oppsoo,ooI0O                                                                                                                     TO'       16 E Topogooco                   67  EISo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.  116  LoPo,d7oCoE,Soo16o. .~ l,C-
U5ooO~~~~~~~.ogoOI                                                                                                                                             I7 S~~~~~~~~~~~ Eooodosoo.IR,oO,osd,  60  SOOIoROOOOIPOOUO    117  So~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E D b-'- .1Ri GP,d  6   S    R   dT.A 17  .-T,
GA                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9RCo- G.oo  69  El Jio-I  118  LP Coo,,Oo,
JINOIsGA             ~~~~~~71 Tdi,s                      GRANADA
i2-                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20 pJNOilE  72019 GRANADA
21 2o~ P,Pd.-o                  '73 LEON                      D20  5,
22 El Cuo                        74  LPP P,,oC.so             121  Dncosno
23 So- Sobos,-od. YoIh           75 Nogo.-                    122  N-od.p
To      9     4024 So- Rol61 d.1 No.                                                                                                                                                                                         PAAAP                          IA
"'5                                                                                                                                                                                                  *~~~~~~~~~~Ch1-25 W N -TEGA                          76  R-o.s G-od.              123  ToIo
2  22Y                                                                                                .26 PNOTEG'.                    ~~~~~~~~~~~        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~77 L. D. o  124 BoO,
2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NRAsovA                                                                                                          78 50 I,id,o                 123 Poooi
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Iz,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 7Llp                                      78 MATAGAL'A                  26B-osocAino
49    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~3   o,                                                                                       0S., R.nA                   127  S.ocJonge
29 Nn-o,o                       81-     loo'2    lU
77                                                                                                                                  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5DpS  2 S5oo-  129 MnoToTolp
-13-       52                                                                                                                                                                 OCOTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 CTA  3Coodoo10 ,goi
1'   32                               9 4 TooAo-                   131  SonjLooOoISo,,
0                                                                                        :5 5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 oPnnno8    SoDioo  132 CG6Ao-o
34 CiddO600iTPT                 86  MEoCoNTAoE
35 CoSod SonOimo                 87   p  npCINAE
6                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36 Mo-  8Po90013Cnop
37 QA.i134  LUIGALYA
SOACO                    135  Lo~. bb-
-j"                                                                     8~~~~~~~~~~~~ADI  9 So,,Lose6d. lo,R-,no  136 So-n,,monn5
9/  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,URZ90 S.-p Loo,co                                                                                           137  So-P ood,,Lo...
7095                              9038  oTP",                                                                                                                                                             '91  BOACO                    138  S-~pTdo,o6
71                       9;,O~~~~~~~~7 ~~~   ,~~~~          >                                                                                              '39 5017000                      92  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol.p~~~~~  139 A39sooTl9lT-oS13 nVi diS-im
N                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40 Yoogomo         93 S., I-,P--                140 LAo,pop
AT                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~            ~         ~~~~~~~~~41 Polc-gomo  94 Co-oop
42 TMpoRnoooNJUA
S u                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43 5-ooo JM .      -NANAGUA                    1411 Moo,
1'c 19                      4-P .-95 Too F-ocAi- ibEe                                     142 E A -~do.
46 So, Jo,, 6. Conpopo  96  TpilPo,                   143  Sososg- i.
46 S- J., d. C.-,97 TM..,o.                          '144  SAN CARLOS
OUTEd                ~~~~~~~98 Vll. C.,o1 F. - A,  145  RocdooS6oolI6
19                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~48 Coodeg          "188  MASNAULA
ow.                                                Bh, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~49 S.. Loon~ Looop                                101 TOOi-epO
NADA                                     M   IN                                                           .5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0 ESTELI
52  -oAidod
10   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                  lMMEXICEYo.0 :BEIZ'E
103 104                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,--' I ~~~~~~~~~~~~RATLANTIC
9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"G2ATEMA,.A HONDURAS "OCEAN
106                                                                                       'O'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogoo~~~~~~~~~~      8      28      40      60      88      180                                  EL                  UA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2  0  0  i   10ELP
112  106  120                                           *         143 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   I       I       I               I       I~~~~~~~~~~~AIAO
113  16    121                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o4
184                                                                                                                                                                                                KLHTR 
115  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~-O;  l-
117                                                                                                              01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41I  "                                                            MMI
118                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA   RICA                                                                                                                   OCEAN.
87'                                       86'                                        5                                         4                                         3,                                                                                4                             MI
SEPTENRIRR 19ST



