Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2767-NI
                        Development Credit Agreement
                   (Second Social Investment Fund Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated July 28, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2767-NI
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    (B)   by agreement dated December 11, 1994, (the IDB Loan
Agreement), the Inter American Development Bank (IDB) has
agreed to make a loan (the IDB Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $40,000,000 to assist
in financing Subprojects and technical assistance additional to
that included in the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the IDB Loan Agreement;
    (C)   by agreement dated February 25, 1995, (the Swedish
Grant Agreement), the Government of Sweden (Sweden) has agreed
to make a grant (the Swedish Grant) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount of SKr15,000,000 to assist in
financing activities complementary to the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Swedish Grant Agreement; and
    (D)   by agreement dated September 30, 1994, (the KfW Loan
Agreement), the Kreditanstalt fþr Wiederaufbau (KfW) has agreed
to make a loan (the KfW Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate
Page  2
principal amount of DM 15,000,000 to assist in financing
activities complementary to the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the KfW Loan Agreement.
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
    otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
    account of expenditures in the territories of any country
    which is not a member of the Association or for goods
    produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or
    (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities,
    or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
    the knowledge of the Association is prohibited by a decision
    of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
    VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Decree No. 59-90" means the Borrower's decree No. 59-
90 dated November 21, 1990 and published in the Official
Gazette on December 13, 1990, as amended by Decree No. 43-94
dated October 28, 1994 extending SIF's duration to December 13,
1997;
    (b)   "MEDE" means the Borrower's ministry of economy and
development;
    (c)   "Municipalities Targeting Plan" means the plan
contained in the Borrower's document entitled Focalizacion y
Distribucion de Recursos, Reporte Trimestral al 31 de Marzo de
1995 (Targeting and Distribution of Resources, Quarterly Report
as of March 31, 1995), which describes the procedures to be
followed by SIF (as defined below) in channelling funds through
the financing of Subprojects (as defined below) to the
Borrower's municipalities and sets forth the estimated amounts
to be channelled to each one of such municipalities;
    (d)   "Operational Manual" means the manual adopted by SIF
(as defined below) on March 15, 1993, amended on March 23,
1995, and to be further amended pursuant to the provisions of
Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement so as to incorporate
procedures for the evaluation of the environmental impact of
Subprojects (as defined below) and the procurement of goods and
works, and to specify the preinvestment costs that are eligible
for financing under a Subproject;
Page  3
    (e)   "Prior Development Credit Agreement" means the
development credit agreement entered into between the Borrower
and the Association in respect of Credit No. 2434-NI (Social
Investment Project) on January 21, 1993 as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
    (f)   "Requesting Entity" means a governmental or non-
governmental entity which meets the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual and which proposes to carry out
or is carrying out a Subproject (as defined below);
    (g)   "SIF" or "Social Investment Fund" means Fondo de
Inversion Social de Emergencia, the Borrower's social
investment fund established as a public decentralized entity
with juridical personality pursuant to Decree No. 59-90;
    (h)   "SIF Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
agreement;
    (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (j)   "Subproject" means a social infrastructure subproject,
an economic infrastructure subproject, a social services
subproject or such other subproject as the Association may
agree, which is eligible for financing by SIF in accordance
with the provisions of the Operational Manual; and
    (k)   "Subproject Agreement" means the agreement entered
into, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, between SIF and a Requesting Entity as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subproject Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,100,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 13, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Page  4
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing December 1, 2005 and ending June 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1,
2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Page  5
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out, through MEDE, Part C of the
                Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                conformity with appropriate financial,
                administrative and economic practices, and shall
                provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required
                for such Part of the Project; and
          (ii)  shall cause SIF, under the provisions of the SIF
                Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out Parts A and B
                of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
                and in conformity with appropriate financial,
                administrative, economic, managerial and
                environmental practices, shall take or cause to
                be taken all action, including the provision of
                funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                necessary or appropriate to enable SIF to carry
                out Parts A and B of the Project, and shall not
                take or permit to be taken any action which would
                prevent or interfere with the carrying out of
                such Parts of the Project by SIF.
    (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated for Parts A and B of the Project available to SIF
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SIF, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, which shall include SIF's
obligation to carry out Parts A and B of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the
Operational Manual.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SIF
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
    (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part C of
the Project, and shall cause SIF to carry out Part A of the
Project, all in accordance with the performance indicators set
forth in the Annex to a letter agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, and cause SIF
to prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than six
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of their respective Parts of the Project;
Page  6
    (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out and cause SIF to carry out, if
applicable, said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the
Association's comments thereon.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SIF to carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, Subprojects shall be
promoted, identified, appraised, approved, carried out and
monitored by SIF in accordance with the procedures set forth or
referred to in the Operational Manual.
    Section 3.06. Without limitation to its obligations under
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, in
respect of Part C of the Project, and shall cause SIF in
respect of Parts A and B of the Project to:
    (a)   promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of the
respective Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the performance of SIF of its
obligations under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement, or the
performance of SIF and the Requesting Entities under their
respective Subproject Agreements; and
    (b)   not later than June 30 and December 31 each year:
          (i)   furnish to the Association a report, in form
                satisfactory to the Association, containing,
                inter alia: (A) a list of Subprojects approved by
                SIF; and (B) the Borrower's and SIF's progress
                made in meeting the performance indicators
                referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this
                Agreement; and
          (ii)  review with the Association the standard
                regionalized unit prices for goods and works
                adopted by SIF;
    (c)   not later than September 30, 1996, review with the
Association the progress made in the carrying out of the
Project and, in addition:
          (i)   the targeting of Subprojects;
          (ii)  the quality and impact of Subprojects;
         (iii)  the administrative soundness and financial
                operations of SIF;
          (iv)  the progress made in the decentralization of SIF
                operations to the Borrower's Atlantic region, the
                implementation of SIF's new environmental
                assessment procedures, and the study to be
                carried out on the future role of SIF; and
          (v)   the operation of a fund to be established by SIF
                for the financing of costs related to the
                maintenance of Subprojects.
    (d)   if after the review referred to in paragraph (c) hereof
the Association is not satisfied with the progress made in the
carrying out of the Project: (i) not later than sixty days
Page  7
after the respective review, prepare and cause SIF to prepare
a plan of action satisfactory to the Association aimed at
achieving adequate progress in the carrying out of the Project
and the meeting of its objectives; and (ii) take and cause SIF
to take promptly all actions included in such action plan.
    Section 3.07. Without limitation to its obligations under
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a)
allocate in its annual budget for SIF, and make available
promptly as needed, for calendar years 1995 through 1997, the
following minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the
financing of Parts A and B of the Project:
          (i)   $3,500,000 equivalent for calendar year 1995;
          (ii)  $3,800,000 equivalent for calendar year 1996; and
         (iii)  $3,000,000 equivalent for calendar year
                1997; and
    (b)   advance, from the respective amounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and no later than the first day
of each quarter of the year in question, amounts sufficient to
cover the counterpart funding requirements for the Project
during such quarter.
    Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause SIF:
    (a)   to carry out the Municipalities Targeting Plan in
accordance with the terms of such plan; and
    (b)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i)
not to approve funding of new Subprojects for the benefit of:
(A) the municipality of Managua for amounts exceeding 16% of
the total funds available to SIF for the financing of
Subprojects; and (B) the other medium poverty municipalities
listed in the Municipalities Targeting Plan, for amounts
exceeding 7% of the total funds available to SIF for the
financing of Subprojects; and (ii) not to change or waive the
Municipalities Targeting Plan.
    Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1997, conclude implementation of the survey referred to in
Part C of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall, in respect of Part C of
the Project maintain, and cause SIF in respect of Parts A and
B of the Project to maintain, separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of their
respective Parts of the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause SIF to:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and
                accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal
                year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by
                independent auditors acceptable to the
                Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than four months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  8
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning such records,
                accounts, and the audit thereof as the
                Association shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause SIF to:
          (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit report for the
                fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    Section 4.02.  Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
    (a)   SIF's operations to be audited during each quarter of
execution of Part A of the Project, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, such audits to include a
financial review of Subprojects and a physical inspection of
works in the field; and
    (b)   SIF to furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than forty-five days after
the end of each such quarter, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
                                  ARTICLE V
                               Other Covenants
    Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause SIF:
    (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
    (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, managerial and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers;
    (c)   without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b)
above, to maintain a chairman of its board, an executive
director, and operational directors whose experience and
Page  9
qualifications shall be at all times acceptable to the
Association, and to obtain the Association's approval with
respect to the replacement of such chairman, executive director
and operational directors prior to any such replacement; and
    (d)   at all times to operate and to maintain its offices,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, economic
and environmental practices.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Remedies of the Association
    Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Decree No. 59-90 or any provision thereof or the
legislation providing for the designation or establishment of
a successor to SIF or the Operational Manual shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Association, the ability of SIF or the successor to SIF to
perform any of its obligations under the SIF Subsidiary
Agreement or under any Subproject Agreement;
    (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that SIF will be able to perform its
obligations under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement or under any
Subproject Agreement;
    (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of SIF, or for the suspension of its
operations before December 13, 1997;
    (d)   the Borrower shall have failed to designate or
establish a successor to SIF, satisfactory to the Association,
for purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project in
the event that SIF shall cease to exist before completion of
such Parts of the Project or the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for
the dissolution or disestablishment of such successor of SIF,
or for the suspension of its operations, before completion of
such Parts of the Project;
    (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)     The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the IDB Loan or the Swedish
                        Grant or the KfW Loan or any loan or grant
                        made to the Borrower for the financing of
                        the Project shall have been suspended,
                        canceled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms thereof; or
                (B)     any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
          (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                Project are available to the Borrower from other
                sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                the obligations of the Borrower under this
Page  10
                Agreement.
    Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) or (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
    (b)   any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the SIF Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into
between the Borrower and SIF; and
    (b)   the Operational Manual has been amended in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association.
    Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
    (a)   the SIF Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
SIF in accordance with its terms;
    (b)   the Operational Manual has been duly amended by SIF.
    Section 7.03. The date October 26, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VIII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas
          Frente al Edificio de la
            Asamblea Nacional
          Managua, D.N.
          Nicaragua
          With copy to:
          Ministerio de Economia y Desarrollo
          Carretera Masaya
          Frente al Camino de Oriente
          Apartado 8
          Managua, D.N.
          Nicaragua
                                          Telex:
Page  11
                                            2410
    For the Association:
          International Development
           Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                By /s/ Roberto Mayorga Cortes
                                                   Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                     Credit               % of
                                    Allocated         Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in           to be
          Category               SDR Equivalent)        Financed
          (1) Goods                     130,000       100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures, 100% of
                                                      local expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory cost)
                                                      and 75% of local
                                                      expenditures of other
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
          (2) Consultants' Services
Page  12
              (a) for Part B of the
              Project                   230,000       100%
                                              )
              (b) for Part C of the           )
              Project                   200,000
          (3) Subprojects
              (a) Works              15,100,000       90% of the
                                                      expenditures for works
                                                      included under a
                                                      Subproject for
                                                      which a Subproject
                                                      Agreement has been
                                                      signed on or before
                                                      June 30, 1997
                                  Amount of the
                                     Credit               % of
                                    Allocated         Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in           to be
          Category               SDR Equivalent)        Financed
              (b) Goods               2,310,000       100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures, 100% of
                                                      local expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory cost) and
                                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures of other
                                                      items procured locally
                                                      for goods included
                                                      under a Subproject for
                                                      which a Subproject
                                                      Agreement has been
                                                      signed on or before
                                                      June 30, 1997
              (c) Training              450,000       100% of expenditures
                                                      for training included
                                                      under a Subproject for
                                                      which a Subproject
                                                      Agreement has been
                                                      signed on or before
                                                      June 30, 1997
          (4) Auditor Services          100,000       100%
          (5) Unallocated               580,000
          TOTAL                      19,100,000
2.         For the purposes of this Schedule:
           (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
           (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
3.         Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
           (a)    expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
           (b)    expenditures under Category (3) for Subprojects
that IDB, KfW or Sweden has financed or agreed to finance; and
Page  13
           (c)    expenditures under Category (3) unless the
proceeds of the Credit allocated for the financing of
Subprojects in Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Prior Development Credit Agreement have been
committed or disbursed.
4.         The Association may require withdrawals from the
Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures under Subprojects, for goods under
contracts, not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, works under
contracts, not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, and consultants
services under contracts with consulting firms not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, and with individual consultants not
exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
           The objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower: (a) sustain its poverty alleviation efforts; and (b)
maintain social cohesion.
           The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:    Subprojects
Financing of Subprojects.
Part B:    SIF Institutional Strengthening
1.         Technical assistance for: (a) the preparation of water
and sanitation Subprojects; and (b) the improvement of SIF's
assessment of the environmental impact of Subprojects and the
development of Subprojects for environmental enhancement.
2.         Provision of: (a) computer hardware and software as
required by SIF for the operation of its management information
systems; and (b) vehicles and office equipment and furniture
required for its operations.
Part C:    Living Standards Measurement Survey
Technical assistance for: (a) the implementation of a living
standards measurement survey; and (b) the analysis of the
results thereof.
                                    * * *
           The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1997.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.        Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    General
1.         Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:    Procurement Procedures
Page  14
1.         Limited International Bidding
           Medical equipment under Subprojects shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.         National Competitive Bidding
           Except as provided in Parts B.3 and B.4 below, goods
(other than medical equipment) and works, shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.         National Shopping for Goods and Procurement of Small Works
           (a)    Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or
less per contract and $1,000,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
           (b)    Works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or
less per contract, and not to exceed $7,500,000 in the
aggregate, shall be procured under lumpsum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at
least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
4.         Direct Contracting
            Works and/or goods under Subprojects which are to be
carried out in distant or scattered rural areas and where
competitive proposals cannot be obtained, and costing $50,000
equivalent or less per contract and $8,500,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.         Procurement Planning
           Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2.         Prior Review
           The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply in respect of:
           (a)    all contracts procured pursuant to the
provisions of Part B.1 hereof;
           (b)    the first two contracts for goods and works
irrespective of their value procured pursuant to the provisions
of Part B.2 of this Schedule and all contracts for goods and
works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more procured
pursuant to the provisions of such Part;
           (c)    the first two contracts procured pursuant to the
Page  15
provisions of Part B.4; and
           (d)    any amendment to any of the contracts referred
to in paragraph (c) above raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or more.
3.         Post Review
           With respect to each contract not governed by
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.         Consultants' services shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.         Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $20,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                               Special Account
1.       For the purposes of this Schedule:
         (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
         (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
         (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
Page  16
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $6,000,000.
2.       Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.       After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
         (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
         (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Association shall
                    specify.
             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                    request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                    Association the documents and other
                    evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                    of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment
                    is requested.  On the basis of each such
                    request, the Association shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit
                    Account and deposit into the Special
                    Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                    have requested and as shall have been
                    shown by said documents and other evidence
                    to have been paid out of the Special
                    Account for eligible expenditures.
         All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.       For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
         (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
         (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
Page  17
         (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
         (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
         Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.       (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
         (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
         (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
         (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
