Document of
The World Bank                  ,                      Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2819-COB
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR
SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCING FOR THE SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT        =            CFA Franc  (CFAF)
US$1                 =             CFAF 210 1/
CFAF 1,000           =            US$4.76
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
ASHFO     -    Contractor (joint venture Astaldi, Italy; Fougerolle, France;
and Holzmann, Germany)
ATC       -    Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
BADEA     -    Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BDEAC     -    Banque de Developpement de l'Afrique Centrale
CAR       -    Central African Republic
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CFCO      -    Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean (the railway branch of ATC)
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO/CP    -    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FED       -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
KDF       -    Kuwait Fund for Economic Development
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PPN       -    Port of Pointe Noire (part of ATC)
SFD       -    Saudi Fund for Development
VNPTF     -    Voies Navigables, Ports et Transports Fluviaux (the river
transport branch of ATC)
1/   Floating exchange rate.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCING FOR THE SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              People's Republic of the Congo
Beneficiary:           Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC)
Amount:                US$30 million
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
RelendinR Terms:       40 percent of the Credit would be onlent to ATC at 8.5
percent interest over 25 years, including 6 years of grace;
the remainder would be used to strengthen ATC's equity.
Prolect Description:  Financing is being sought to:  complete the CFCO
realignment project; procure machinery for maintaining
realigned sections; and provide technical assistance
for project implementation. The main benefit of com-
pleting the realignment project is that it would permit
the railway to continue to perform its historical role
as a regional transport artery, serving Cameroon, CAR,
Chad and Gabon, while also making it possible for the
Government to exploit the rich forestry resources of
northern Congo. The Government is giving high priority
to such development since exploitation of forestry has
the greatest potential to establish a sustained economic
growth pattern outside the petroleum sector. The imple-
mentation of this policy has been held back by several
difficulties which are being resolved. Nevertheless,
any further efforts would be doomed to failure without
completing the realignment since the full capacity of
the railway will soon be reached and further incremental
timber evacuation would become impossible, unless the
Government were to cancel transport agreements reached
with neighboring countries. There are certain risks
associated with the completion of the project. Modest
growth is forecast for general cargo and timber traffic;
while both could stagnate, they are more likely to
increase due to rising petroleum revenues and Government
efforts to accelerate timber production in northern Congo.
ATC's operational efficiency declined in past years, but
has begun to recover. Miany of the underlying deficien-
cies have been or are being ironed out, and ATC's action
plan and agreed operational targets should ensure fur-
ther progress. To help avoid additional coat overruns,
especially for the long tunnel, extensive studies of all
remaining work have been carried out, new consultants
selected to supervise tunnel construction and more
competent staff will be assigned to the job site by the
contractor.
This document hu a mrtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
COST ESTIMATES
(net of identifiable taxes from which project is exempt)
US$ million_
Realignment                              Local      Foreign     Total
Past works, supplies                      54.3       116.4      170.7
and services (1/20/80)
Future works, supplies                    49.3        96.4      145.7
and services
Total base cost                          103.6       212.8      316.4
Physical contingencies                     8.4        16.7       25.1
Price contingencies                        5.2       10.5        15.7
Total realignment                        117.2       240.0      357.2
FINANCING PLAN
--------US$ million--------
Source                                        Local      Foreign     Total
A.  Available under Nov.'77                    62.3       127.3       189.6
Financing Plan
B. Supplementary Financing
April '80
IDA                                              -         30.0       30.0
European Development Fund                       8.7        17.0        25.7
Saudi Development Fund                          7.8        15.2        23.0
Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development                         7.0        13.0       20.0
CCCE                                            2.6         5.2         7.8
FAC                                             2.3         4.4         6.7
OPEC Special Fund                               1.7         3.3         5.0
CIDA                                             -          4.1         4.1
African Development Bank                        0.7         3.0         3.7
Other sources 1/                                6.0        17.5        23.5
Government                                     18.1         0.0        18.1
Total Supplementary Financing             54.9       112.7      167.6
GRAND TOTAL                              117.2       240.0      357.2
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                       1980          1981           1982
Annual                            13            13              4
Cumulative                       13             26             30
RATE OF RETURN: Supplementary financing of realignment on incremental
investment: regional: 13 percent; national: 12 percent
No appraisal report has been prepared.
Map:  IBRD2254R9
1/   Iraq, Italy and Qatar have been approached by the Government to provide
US$ 8, 9.5 and 6 million, respectively. Pending a positive reply,
the Government guaranteed these amounts.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO FOR
SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCING FOR THE SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of the Congo for the equivalent of US$30
million on standard IDA terms to provide supplementary financing for the
Second Railway Project. Financing would also be provided by the European
Development Fund, the African Development Bank (AfDB), the French technical
assistance agency (FAC) and development bank (CCCE), the Kuwait and Saudi
Development Funds, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) for a total of about the equivalent of US$96 million
on various terms. The Government furthermore expects to obtain assistance
from Qatar, Iraq and Italy for a total equivalent of US$23.5 million, failing
which the Government of Congo would seek other means to provide these funds,
including using its own sources.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest aconomic report entitled "People's Republic of the
Congo - Economic Trerds, Current Issues, and Prospects" (Report No. 2213-
COB) was distributed to the Board on June 8, 1979. Its conclusions and the
findings of a recent economic mission that visited the Congo are integrated
into this report.
Structure and Potential
3.         With an area of about 340,000 km2 and a highly urbanized and
unevenly distributed population of about 1.3 million inhabitants, the Congo
occupies a strategic position on a transport corridor that reaches into
Central Africa and provides access to the Atlantic Ocean at the country's
second largest city, Pointe Noire. The per capita GNP which was modest
prior to 1972 increased substantially with the start of oil production
in that year. By 1978 it had reached US$540 (Bank Atlas estimates).
4.         The economy is heavily dependent on import substitution manufactur-
ing, transit transport, trade, and Government services. Agriculture occupies
more than 50 percent of the population but has been declining in importance
and now accounts for only 10 percent of the GDP. Timber production, which
provided the bulk of exports during the late 1960s and the early 1970s
and was a major stimulant for the transport sector, has also suffered nearly
a decade of decline. Mining only became a significant contributor to GDP in
1972 with the initiation of oil production for export. Value added in
mining rose from 3 percent in 1972 to 19 percent in 1974. The para-statal
sector with about 65 financially autonomous enterprises dominates modern
sector agriculture, manufacturing and services.



-2-
5.       Public spending rose to about 30 percent of GDP in 1977/78, with the
Government's increased participation in the economy. The large public outlays
were also brought about by a high growth in Government employment stimulated
by rising school enrollment rates, and the stagnation of the economy, including
public enterprises. Limited employment opportunities for high school and
university graduates caused the Government to hire those who could not find
jobs elsewhere.
6.        The country's development potential is promising although there
are numerous constraints. Agricultural and northern forestry resources
remain largely unexploited. Little is known about the Congo's non-oil
mineral wealth, and the petroleum potential is not yet fully explored.
The country's heavy river-rail-port transport system, the Agence Transcongo-
laise des Communications (ATC), has yet to be fully developed. The coun-
try's deteriorated road network presents major constraints to resource
development but could be improved at low cost. A substantial hydroelectric
potential remains unrealized on account of the low level of demand and long
distances between hydroelectric sites and potential consumers.
Past Performance
7.        During the 1960s real GDP grew by approximately 4 percent per
year. The Government gradually expanded the public sector while attempting
to improve smallholder agriculture. Public investments were mostly financed
with concessional external assistance, but there was also a surge of private
investments in forestry and in import substitution manufacturing.
8.        The new Government that came to power in 1968 was committed to
a faster expansion of the role of the State in the economy. At the same time
the discovery of an offshore oil deposit enhanced resource prospects. The
Government took over existing enterprises and engaged in new ventures financed
mainly by foreign commercial loans. The agricultural strategy shifted to the
promotion of state farms much to the detriment of smallholder agriculture.
Private investments (except in the petroleum sector) stagnated as the most
obvious investment opportunities in manufacturing were exhausted and the
business climate became uncertain. This rapid expansion of the public
sector proved to be less successful than anticipated. Public enterprises did
not have enough working capital or skilled staff. This, together with over-
employment, contributed to the deterioration of efficiency and to mounting
financial difficulties.
9.        Government financial support of public enterprises as well as the
expansion of civil service employment led to an unsustainable rate of public
spending and distorted the allocation of resources. However, the rise in
oil production in 1973/74 together with the quadrupling of oil prices
brought a temporary respite in the financial situation. Budgetary revenues
doubled as compared to 1972, exports nearly tripled and the terms of trade
improved sharply. The increase in public revenues was used to rescue failing
public enterprises, make new investments and increase civil service wages by
an average of 30 percent.



10.       In 1975, at the time when the Government was launching a new ambi-
tious investment program (Plan Triennal de Developpement Economique et Social,
1975-77) unforeseen geological problems brought about a 25 percent drop in oil
production, which then remained at a depressed level until 1978 when a new oil
field was put into production. Other adverse developments also weakened
economic performance: the irreparable flooding of a potash mine in 1977; the
closing down of several public enterprises as capital assets were run down and
the Government could not maintain operating subsidies; and a decline in
forestry production owing to depressed demand, the depletion of the most
easily accessible forests in coastal areas, and a perceived deterioration
in the investment climate for private logging firms following Government
measures to take over log marketing. As a result of these developments,
real GDP fell by an average 2.5 percent a year throughout 1975-77 and only
recovered in 1978 as oil production expanded once again.
The 1975-78 Financial Crisis
11.       From 1975 to 1978 the deterioration of the economy brought about a
crisis in domestic and external finances. The impact was particularly
severe on public finances. Although the Government managed to cut budgetary
investments, reductions in public consumption were politically difficult to
achieve. Treasury deficits averaged 27 percent of budgetary revenues
throughout the period or about 7-8 percent of GDP. After exhausting most
sources of deficit finance--including substantial borrowing from bilateral
sources and the oil companies--arrears accumulated rapidly, reaching about
CFAF 60 billion or 100 percent of budgetary revenues at the end of 1978.
The Treasury's liquidity position was further weakened when public enter-
prises withheld taxes since the Government did not pay for goods and ser-
vices delivered.
12.       Up to 1972, the balance of payments was roughly in equilibrium
as the growing current deficit was offset by rising capital inflows. The
oil boom substantially improved the country's external finances and a large
overall surplus was achieved in 1974. Subsequently, the overall balance
steadily deteriorated owing to depressed exports, import price inflation,
rising interest payments on the public and private debt and stagnating
capital inflows. In 1978 the current account deficit reached CFAF 57
billion, or 28 percent of the GDP. As capital inflows were insufficient to
cover this deficit, the overall deficit reached CFAF 10.6 billion. The
deficits on the overall balance were financed by arrears of payments and
drawing down reserves of the Central Bank and commercial and development
banks.
13.       At the end of 1978, the outstanding external debt (excluding
undisbursed amounts) was estimated at CFAF 185 billion (US$886 million), or
110 percent of the 1978 GNP. On the basis of public debt servicing obliga-
tions (excluding accumulated arrears), the overall debt service ratio stood
at 14 percent while the Government's debt service obligations accounted for
19 percent of 1978 budgetary revenues. By the end of the 1975-78 period,
about 25 percent of the public debt service obligations stood in arrears,



- 4 -
amounting to a total of about CFAF 14 billion (US$65 million) both principal
and interest. The outstanding debt (including undisbursed) is estimated to
have risen to CFAF 187 billion (US$925 million) by end 1979. As the Congo's
credit image abroad worsened, the borrowing terms hardened and it became
increasingly difficult for the Government to obtain development finance on
conventional terms. Although the Government was able to reschedule part of
its debt service with bilateral donors throughout 1976-79, public debt servic-
ing obligations are still expected to rise in the next three to four years.
Post Stabilization Programs
14.       Throughout 1975-78, the Government attempted to adjust for short-
falls in revenues by reducing its investment outlays, cutting subsidies to
public enterprises, lowering the retirement age of civil servants and
imposing salary deductions on salaried employees. To improve financial
administration and provide for some investment financing from domestic
resources, the Government is presently earmarking resources, including the
salary deductions, for investments. In 1978 the Government initiated a
two-year investment program totalling CFAF 130 billion aimed at rehabilitat-
ing the public sector, completing ongoing programs and launching a minimum
number of new ventures. While the program could not be carried out in its
entirety owing to shortages of funds and delays in project preparation, it
enabled the Government to focus on some critical issues in rehabilitating
the public sector such as improving financial reporting and monitoring, and
adjusting salary scales to productivity in the country's state farms. To
restore the productivity of large industrial public enterprises, the Govern-
ment is seeking, with some initial success, to conclude management contracts
with foreign firms.
15.       An attempt at implementing a comprehensive financial stabilization
program was undertaken within the framework of the 1979 IMF Second Tranche
Standby Program. The program aimed at reducing the overall level of public
arrears by CFAF 1 billion and limiting to CFAF 8 billion new external
debt undertakings with maturities of less than 15 years. Through the
rescheduling of CFAF 7.4 billion of debt service obligations with bilateral
donors and oil companies, compressing public demand, stepping up the collec-
tion of tax arrears owned by public enterprises, and implementing selective
tax increases, the Government expected to meet the program's objectives.
While the final report on the standby program has yet to be issued by the
IMF, indications are that the rise in external arrears has largely been
arrested and the Government succeeded in containing new foreign commercial
loans within limits specified in the program.  At end December 1979, gross
international reserves had been restored to a level equivalent to almost
two months' merchandise imports.
Improvements in Resource Prospects
16.       The progressive rise in prices for crude oil in 1979 has had
a dual effect on the Congo's resource position. The immediate consequence
was a doubling of the export value of each barrel produced. This resulted in
a substantial narrowing of the overall deficit of the balance of payments and
windfall budgetary revenues of about CFAF 8 billion, or an increase of about
15 percent over budgeted levels. The longer term impact will be felt with the



acceleration in exploration and development of high cost deposits previously
considered marginal, and current investment plans of oil companies call for
developing new fields between 1980 and 1982. Available exploration data,
moreover, suggest that prospects for continued investment in oil production
after 1982 remain reasonably favorable. Should this preliminary assessment
prove accurate, oil production could rise steadily until 1987, achieving a
level more than double the 1978 output and stabilizing at that level until the
end of the decade. Consequently, the country should now be in a much better
position to stabilize its financial situation and contribute more to public
investment. Nevertheless, it would be unwise to exaggerate the benefits of
the oil boom given the state of the economy and the level of socio-economic
development. In addition past experience has shown that difficult and some-
times unpredictable geological conditions make any oil production forecast in
the Congo particularly unreliable.
17.       The Government's public investment program for 1980 calls for
outlays of CFAF 77 billion, out of which CFAF 22 billion is expected to
be spent on the CFCO realignment project. The program is expected to be
financed by public savings of about CFAF 8 billion, a large Eurodollar bank
loan of CFAF 20 billion, disbursements on existing loans and new borrowings,
and from grants. Several of the projects to be undertaken are new
initiatives which had to be postponed in 1979 due to restrictions on expen-
ditures.
18.       The new outlook for the Congo's resource prospects will obviously
add to the is;sues faclag the Government in managing public finances and
the economy. During ihe financial crisis that prevailed between 1975
and 1978, the focus was on: stabilizing finances by containing domestic
demand; restoring growth, in part by attracting foreign partners to step up
investments in oil and forestry development; and improving the country's
creditworthiness. While the brighter resource prospects will not eliminate
the need to liquidate the financial liabilities inherited from the past
and to keep a tight rein on public consumption, the more important issues
will concern the country's ability to absorb its surplus revenues and lay
the foundation for a sustained growth of the non-oil economy.
19.       The Government's ability to introduce and execute an effective
development program will depend on the public sector's capacity to prepare
and carry out productive investments and manage public enterprises. At
present, the economy's absorptive capacity is constrained by:
(a) An inefficient public sector: the central bureaucracy is
heavy and slow, and the decision-making process is rigid;
shortages of qualified manpower, particularly at middle level,
and poor data base further weaken investment planning and
implementation;
(b) an inadequate infrastructure, particularly road transport and
communications systems;



- 6 -
(c) an unorganized agricultural sector (due to neglect of small-
holders and to disappointing results in the state farm system)
which limits opportunities to undertake large scale rural
development programs; and
(d) a limited natural resource base coupled with limited domestic
market, restrict the potential for industrial development
outside petroleum and timber processing.
20.       In view of these constraints and unless the public sector's
capacity to improve resource allocation decisions is greatly improved over a
relatively brief period of time, there is a risk that some of the Government's
newly found resources will finance non-productive projects and wasteful
public consumption. The Government, however, recognizes these constraints
and risks and is identifying ways to improve the information base and
decision making processes needed to enhance its project preparation and
management capacity.
Summary
21.       The Congo faces serious structural obstacles to its economic
development. Its average per capita income level, which is higher than
that of other African countries at a similar stage of socio-economic develop-
ment, is derived from the narrow economic base of its regional transport
network and petroleum sector. Although its resource prospects are improving,
the backlog of public sector financial liabilities and current programs to
rehabilitate public enterprises will require a large infusion of resources.
In addition past experience points at a considerable risk that a shortfall
could again occur in oil production due to geological or related problems,
which could substantially modify the Congo's resource outlook. Therefore,
production forecasts beyond the three-year oil development program to which
oil companies are now committed should be treated with reservation. The high
level of the outstanding debt, the prospects for sustained increases in import
prices, and social pressures that could oblige the Government to allocate a
higher proportion of its oil income to public consumption contribute to
suggest that a prudent stance is advisable as regards the country's credit-
worthiness for new loans on conventional terms. In view of the Congo's per
capita income and uncertainties concerning its long-term prospects, foreign
aid donors should continue to provide most of their f-inancing on concessionary
terms until further reviews of the oil sector development and prospects as
well as evidence of success in reducing the past liabilities of the public
sector indicate that the country could become eligible for more conventional
type of lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CONGO
22.        The Bank Group's commitments in the Congo now amount to US$102.9
million from three Bank loans (US$76 million) and eight IDA credits (US$26.9
million)l/. Seven loans and credits totalling US$46 million have been fully
disbursed. These commitments have been designed mainly to assist the country's
efforts to improve its basic transport infrastructure, better exploit its
natural resources and upgrade the educational system. Rail and road transport
represents the largest share of past commitments (49 percent) and is followed
by mining and petroleum (34 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement
of loans and credits up to March 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
23.        In addition to the Second Railway project for which supplementary
financing is now being proposed, ongoing projects consist of: a livestock
project which aims at improving the Congo's self-sufficiency in meat produc-
tion; an education project which focusses on improving the quality of the
educational system and reorienting it to meet the country's manpower needs;
and a petroleum technical assistance project to improve sector management and
strengthen the Government in its dialogue with oil companies.
24.        In the future, the Bank Group will continue to help the Congo develop
its transport infrastructure so that relatively isolated areas and resources
can be exploited and services provided to neighboring countries can be improved.
In addition to the proposed supplementary financing the Government and the
Association are preparing a second highway maintenance project which will con-
tribute to reinforce the links between rural areas and domestic and interna-
tional markets and will feed into the trans-equatorial transport system; and a
river transport project aimed at relaxing transport constraints for the
development of the Congo's northern forestry resources.
25.        The Government and the Association are also preparing a forestry
development project in the Northern Congo. To reinforce the Government's
ability to monitor activity in the sector and increase the benefits to the
country derived from log production and processing, the proposed project would
contain technical assistance components.
26.        The Bank is also exploring ways by which it can assist the Congo
in implementing its new rural development strategy which focusses on restor-
ing productivity in the smallholder sector.
27.        Throughout 1974-78, gross international public capital flows
(including debt refinancing and budgetary support) amounted to about US$600
million. At the end of 1979, the outstanding disbursed debt stood at US$925
million of which 11 percent was held by the Bank and IDA. The Bank's and
IDA's share in the public debt service is estimated at 6 percent for 1980 and
at an average 5 percent over the 1980-85 period.
1/ Including three supplementary financing credits.



- 8 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE ATC
The Transport Sector
28.       Endowed with navigable rivers and a favorably located seaport
on the Atlantic Coast, Congo's extensive transport network has evolved into
a regional transport system, serving the Central African Republic (CAR),
Cameroon, Gabon, and southern Chad. In recent years, more than three-quarters
of the freight carried between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire has been transit
traffic, mainly manganese from Gabon, timber from Cameroon and the CAR, and
imports to the CAR; for most of this traffic the Congo route provides the only
access to the sea. The Transgabonese railway, now under construction, is the
main and most advanced alternative route, but will cater only for Gabonese
traffic when it is completed, probably in the late 1980s.
29.       The backbone of the transport system is the Transequatorial Route,
which includes the ocean port at Pointe Noire, the river port at Brazzaville,
the Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean railway (CFCO) linking these two ports, and the
navigable sections of the Congo and Oubangui rivers (about 1,120 km). The
Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC) operates this system and also
provides river services, which carry CAR traffic and Cameroon and northern
Congo timber. The CFCO system is presently working close to capacity. The
realignment between Loubomo and Bilinga will increase the capacity to handle
traffic demands in years to come. To achieve an optimal utilization of ATC's
increased capacity it should be complemented by rehabilitation of the perma-
nent way between Mont Belo and Brazzaville (310 km) as well as improvement of
the river transport services. The Association, and other donors, are examin-
ing with the Government the possibility of improving and expanding the river
services. As regards the Mont Belo-Brazzaville railway section, the Govern-
ment and ATC will complete the first phase (estimated at CFAF 2.4 billion) by
December 1982 (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 3.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
30.       The Congo has a highway network of about 11,000 km, of which only
about 3,000 km (including 550 of paved roads) provide all-weather service.
Except for the two most important roads, those from Brazzaville north to
Ouesso (of which only about 100 km is paved, the remaining 800 km being
impassable in the rainy season) and west to Kinkala (about 80 km paved),
the network consists of secondary and forestry roads in the area between
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, which not only contains about two-thirds of
the population but also the main centers of economic activity. Only a small
proportion of traffic is carried by road, and about 70 percent of it is
timber traffic. The highway network is in bad condition as a result of poor
maintenance which is due, inter alia, to a shortage of funds. In 1979 the
Government reinstated the Road Fund, which had been discontinued in 1971, and
is now expected to contribute substantial funds to road maintenance. A
project aimed at improving road maintenance is being discussed between the
Government and the Association.



- 9 -
31.       The air transport network consists of eight airports and about 30
minor airfields.  Only three have paved runways, and only Brazzaville is up
to international standards, although its runway is not adequate to handle
wide-body jets which can offer thie lowest international freight rates and
which are expected to become the main aircraft flying the Congo-Europe
route during the 1980s. A Government-owned company, Lina Congo, provides
scheduled domestic services, and a private company provides charter services.
Agence Transcongolaise des Commmunications (ATC)
Organization, Management and Operations
32.       ATC has 7,240 employees, of whom 100 are expatriates, and is divided
into four main sections: (1) ATC headquarters; (2) the port of Pointe
Noire (PPN); (3) the railway linking Pointe Noire and Brazzaville (CFCO);
and (4) the river transport services (VIPTF) linking north Congo, southeast
Cameroon and the CAR to Brazzaville.
33.       ATC is administered by a 14-member board, with the Minister of
Transport as chairman, and the other members representing other ministries,
the unions and the ruling political party. The board meets two or three times
a year.
34.       A general manager, appointed by the Council of Yinisters at the
board's recommendation, is responsible for day-to-day operations. The
general manmger is as.isted by a technical director general, who for the
present is an expert provided by France. A financial controller is nominated
by the Minister of Finance. The headquarters staff, directly answerable to
the general manager, prepares budgets, plans investments, and provides
administrativ,e services and general staff training for the three operational
sections (PPN, CFCO, and VNPTF), which are under the direction of separate
mianagers assisted by expatriate technical directors provided by FAC.
35.       Management was recently strengthened in key positions by the
appointment of qualified Congolese staff and additional French experts.
Further strengthening is anticipated in financial planning and project
management, by the provision of expatriate technical assistants financed by
French bilateral aid.
36.       The management and operating sections are competent but their
efficiency in dealing with the day-to-day operations has been hampered by:
(i) inconsistent application of ATC's statutes;
(ii) frequent changes of the Congolese managerial staff;
(iii) lack of adequate rules in the relationship between ATC's
management, the unions and local political leaders who deal
with labor policies; and
(iv) inadequate personnel management and administration based
on an out-of-date personnel statute.



- 10 -
37.       ATC's management recently proposed a comprehensive and basically
sound plan of action ("Plan de Redressement") to restore operational and
managerial efficiency. The main elements of this plan, together with a set of
operational targets for its operating sections, are incorporated in the
Project Agreement (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement). In order
to improve staff productivity the Government intends to prepare a manpower
plan for 1982-86 and to adopt a revised personnel statute by August 31, 1981.
The Government has furthermore agreed to avoid frequent changes in ATC manage-
ment.
38.       ATC's operating efficiency declined steadily from mid-1978 to
mid-1979, remaining at a low level until October-November 1979, especially
the CFCO railway which was unable to carry the timber produced in the north and
south. The main causes for the decline were: (a) increasing tense labor
relations, low staff morale and poor discipline; (b) frequent changes and
uneven performance of management, and disappointing support from technical
assistants; (c) inadequate management of CFCO workshops; (d) incomplete
implementation of improvements in operating methods recommended by consultants;
(e) underutilization of the technical assistants; and (f) lack of locomotive
spare parts due to poor material management and financial constraints.
39.       The Government, ATC's management and the French organizations
providing technical assistance to the ATC began in 'September 1979 to take
measures to remedy this situation.    As a result there has been (a) a 35
percent increase in locomotive availability; (b) a 30 percent reduction in
transit time of direct trains between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire; (c) a
more than 80 percent increase in the average monthly tonnage of timber
evacuated from Brazzaville to Pointe Noire; and (d) a drastic reduction in
rolling stock turnaround time. An EEC Special Action Credit signed in April
1980 is providing financing for technical assistance and spare parts for
locomotives, which together with financing provided by France would help to
ensure acceptable operational efficiency of CFCO equipment.
40.       The operating efficiency and present capacity of the ports of
Pointe Noire and Brazzaville are not expected to pose any problems for the
forecast traffic volumes to be carried on the ATC system during the next
five years. ATC management is aware that improvements are needed in river
transport operations and the action plan includes appropriate operational
targets.
Traffic
41.       The major components of ATC's freight traffic are manganese,
general cargo, timber and petroieum products.  Traffic demand is greatly
dependent on timber exploitation and the world market for manganese; the



- 11 -
quality of ATC's transport services, to which timber is particularly sensi-
tive; and the condition of the Congolese economy, which determines the level
of general cargo. In 1979 CFCO traffic, which is representative of overall
ATC activity, was as follows: timber, 483,000 tons, or 34 percent above
the level during the 1975 slump despite a substantial drop fr-om the previous
year due to railway constraints; manganese, 2.3 million tons, recovering
strongly from a two years' slump and showing good prospects for further
increases in the coming years; general cargo and bulk oil, 680,000 tons,
stagnating at about the 1975 level as a result of the Congo's economic crisis
(para. 11). The economy started a slow recovery in 1979, which should
gradually accelerate in the next years, giving rise to increases in general
cargo and petroleum traffic. In addition, the complete reorganization of
CAR's river transport company in April 1980 should significantly improve
service in that country, thereby generating additional traffic for the Trans-
equatorial route.
42.       Due mainly to increases in CAR production, timber traffic has
recovered from the sharp fall in 1975, although it is still substantially
below expectations. CFCO operating inefficiency during most of 1979, now
largely remedied, resulted in an accumulation of more than 100,000 tons of
timber at the port of Brazzaville at the end of the year, forcing a temporary
cutback in production. Institutional bottlenecks in the Congo related to
marketing arrangements blocked new investment in the north but are now being
resolved. The Government and a German forestry company, already established
in the north, recently negotiated an agreement for a new concession in the
north and it is expected to be signed shortly; negotiations on another
concession have begun and proposals for other concessions have been sub-
mitted. The Government has undertaken to enter into an agreement on a
forestry concession in the north by September 30, 1980, and to make satis-
factory progress on the conclusion of another concession agreement by December
31, 1980 (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Association is considering a credit to the Congo which would help encourage
forestry exploitation in northern Congo and improve the Government's institu-
tional capacity to manage the sector. In preparing traffic projections, it
has been assumed that one new forestry concession will start operations every
two years, each generating 63,000 tons per year of logs and processed timber.
Manganese is expected to grow at an average 3.6 percent yearly, all other
freight traffic at 4.3 percent yearly, and timber alone at 5.5 percent.
Passenger traffic grew at an average 6.6 percent p.a. during 1976-79 but its
growth rate has been declining and is expected to remain at 5 percent in the
future.
Investment Plan 1980-84
43.       ATC has prepared a five-year investment plan for 1980-84.  In addi-
tion to completion of the CFCO realignment, the plan focuses on renewals and
investments needed to carry expected increases in traffic. Total investments
under the plan excluding the realignment project amount to CFAF 33 billion
(US$157.2 million) including physical and price contingencies. Nearly 50 per-
cent or CFAP 16.6 billion (US$79 million) represents renewal of facilities and
equipment and the remainder new investments, particularly in river transport



- 12 -
equipment, light locomotives, port warehousing and terminal areas. The
investment plan is based on operating targets set for each of the ATC oper-
ating sections and has been prepared in consultation with the Association.
44.       Financing for the 1980 investment program has already been obtained.
ATC is discussing with potential aid sources the financing of investment needs
for later years. The Government has requested contributions for the rehabili-
tation of the Mont Belo-Brazzaville sections (see para. 29) from BADEA and
BDEAC. Given the need to control ATC's future debt service burden, until
December 31, 1984, consultation with the Association would be required for
every investment over US$2 million equivalent (Section 4.05 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Financial Situation and Prospects
45.       ATC's poor operating performance and low transport denand have
resulted in a deteriorating financial position since the mid-1970s. By early
1979, ATC's working capital was severely negative, with nearly CFAF 2 billion
in arrears on debt service; commercial bank overdrafts exceeded CFAF 1.8
billion, and arrears on payments to suppliers exceeded CFAF 2 billion. The
situation worsened until about mid-1979, when management changes, coupled with
improved traffic performance, began to turn the situation around. With timely
assistance from the Government, ATC paid its 1979 debt service with only minor
delays; its increased cash generation permitted it to reduce short-term debt
by CFAF 1 billion.
46.       Since late 1979, steps have also been taken by the Government to
improve ATC's financial situation, the most important ones being the Govern-
ment's injection of CFAF 4 billion in long-term working capital which was
paid on February 29, 1980, and approval of an increase in ATC's tariffs by
an average of 13 percent effective January 1, 1980, on domestic and April 1,
1980, on international traffic. In addition, the CCCE and the Association
(through the EEC Special Action Credit) approved programs to rapidly undertake
overdue maintenance of CFCO's equipment and rebuild an adequate stock of
critical spare parts. These measures are expected to further improve ATC's
financial position during 1980 and restore working capital to a reasonable
level.
47.       ATC's future financial performance is mainly dependent on its
achieving forecast traffic volumes and operational targets. However, ATC's
annual debt service burden in the coming years will reach CFAF 9.8 billion
for existing debt and for debt expected to be contracted during 1980. Debt
service will be even higher as additional debt is contracted in subsequent
years to finance essential investment needs. Even if the modest traffic
projections are realized and ATC management maintains tight control over all
working costs, ATC's projected cash generation on the basis of 1980 tariffs
alone will be insufficient in future years to cover the debt service burden.
Moreover, ATC's working capital base needs to be maintained at the minimum
level needed to achieve the operational targets. ATC also needs to fund
out of its internal cash generation about CFAF 2 billion a year or about 30
percent of its annual renewals and investments. The following table
summarizes ATC's cash needs during 1980-84:



- 13 -
------------ (in CFAF million)------
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
Source
1.  Cash generation (1980 tariffs)   4,096    5,353    3,852    2,858    1,324
2. Long-term borrowings - working
capital                          6,071       275       -         -         -
3.  Long-term financings - invest-
ments (loans/credits/grants)  26,053   19,816    8,921    6,467    4,023
Total Sources              36,220   25,444   12,773    9,325    5,347
Application
1. Investments (incl. Realign-
ment                            28,074   21,869   10,956    8,656    6,313
2.  Debt service (existing debt)       4,542    5,359    5,205    4,910    4,589
3.  Debt ser-vice (new borrowings)       624    1,635    2,290    3,154    5,800
Total Debt Service           5,166    6,994    7,495    8,064   10,389
4. Minimum increase in working
capital                          2,853       987    1,117       971    1,007
Total Applications          36,093   29,850   19,568   17,691   17,709
5.  Net cash/working capital needs         -     4,406    6,795    8,366   12,362
6.  Impact cf proposei tariff
increases                           -      3,217    6,761   10,338   14,531
7.  Net Additional needs                   -     1,189        34        -        -
Ratios (including impact of proposed tariff increases)
-  Expected working ratio                  74       67        64        62       60
- Debt service coverage (of
maximum debt servicing
arising from existing
debt and additional
debt incurred in each year)           .67     .91       .99      1.13      1.33
Expected Rate of Return on Revalued
Average Net Fixed Assets in Use         3.1     7.8       5.9        5.2      6.9
48.       In the above table, working expenses have been estimated in
current terms in order to highlight the impact of inflation, projected to
average about 10 percent per annum during the coming years. It is clear
that tariff increases in real terms will be needed to keep pace with the
expected inflation and to assure a sufficient level of cash generation to
cover debt service needs, minimum working capital increases and financing



- 14 -
of renewals and investments. ATC has undertaken to calculate necessary tariff
increases on this basis by July of each year and the Government has agreed to
introduce them in January the following year (Section 4.06 of the draft
Project Agreement and Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A study of cost-based tariffs is being carried out by consultants financed
under the Second Railway Project. ATC has agreed to initiate the implementa-
tion of such a tariff system after consultation with the Association on the
recommendations included on the study (Section 4.03 of the draft Project
Agreement) by mid-1981. The tariff increases planned for January 1981 repre-
sent the maximum feasible at this time, but would still provide insufficient
cash generation in 1981 and consequently ATC would need additional Government
support in this year. The Government has therefore agreed to provide finan-
cial support to ATC as necessary (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Beyond 1982 tariff increases related to inflation should maintain
ATC's financial viability.
49.       The high debt service burden, the modest forecast traffic in-
crease, and the still critical financial situation point to a need to focus
the financial covenants on the debt and liquidity structures of ATC's
balance sheets, and on the cash generation aspects of its funds flow. In
order to monitor ATC's debt structure, the present debt service coverage
ratio of 1.25, as provided under Loan No.1228 COB covenants, will be main-
tained (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, a
satisfactory working capital maintenance covenant has been agreed upon; to
ensure necessary tariff increases and to control working expenses, the
working ratio target will be set at 68 percent during 1981 and 65 percent
thereafter. Despite being a relatively ambitious target compared to other
railway systems, it is attainable by ATC as evidenced by its performance in
1979, when the working ratio was 68 percent. The expected rate of return on
revalued assets (or net long-term capital employed) derived from the above
target will be 5-6 percent in 1981 and thereafter which is satisfactory in
this case (Section 4.07 of the draft Project Agreement). These, together
with the proposed consultations on capital investment (para. 44), will
ensure adequate control of ATC's financial situation. Implementation of a
tariff increase for 1981 on domestic and international traffic based on the
consideration mentioned in the preceeding paragraph will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
50.       The Second Railway Project covered the ATC investment plan for
1974-78 and was expected to cost about US$233.7 million equivalent including
physical and price contingencies. The plan comprised investments for the
ocean port of Pointe Noire, river services, the CFCO railway, training
facilities and technical assistance. The largest component was the realign-
ment of 88 km of the railway in the mountainous area between Bilinga and
Loubomo. This component was designed to increase freight traffic capacity
and to reduce operating costs significantly. The realignment was estimated



- 15 -
at US$148.8 million equivalent and was financed by AfDB, BADEA, CCCE, CIDA,
FAC, FED, KDF, SFD and the Bank (Loan No.1228 COB of April 12, 1976, effective
November 22, 1976).
51.        Mlost of the investment plan was implemented as expected.  The
realignment, however, has encountered a series of major problems, and although
some 65 percent of the civil works had been completed as of December 31, 1979,
there were still major uncertainties as to the completion date and the total
cost of the realignment.
52.        The problems began in January 1977 with an armed raid from outside
the Congo on the worksite which resulted in a 10-month work interruption and
a substantial cost increase due to damages to the contractor's equipment,
new mobilization and higher unit prices. Since then evidence of adverse
geological conditions, that were difficult to foresee at appraisal, has
necessitated the reshaping of unstable slopes and cuts and changing their
design on remaining sections; in some sections where earthworks had already
been carried out, the alignment has had to be changed. The rocks and soils
encountered in the long tunnel (4,550 m) were much less tractable than could
have been anticipated and, as a consequence, the contractor could not use his
equipment efficiently. Given the unexpectedly serious problems encountered,
sufficient appropriately experienced staff were not always available on the
site to deal with problems as they arose.
53.        At a co-donors' meeting in June 1979, the Government, ATC and some
of the donors agreed to have independent consultants review the work done, the
design of proposed alignment changes and of the remaining works, and the cost
estimates.
54.        Since September 1979, considerable work has been done by ATC, its
consultants (Tecsult, Canada), and the independent consultants (Electrowatt,
Switzerland) to amend the original design to decrease the risk of landslides
to an acceptable level and at a manageable cost, and to try to determine the
final cost. These inputs have considerably improved the design and management
of the project and have significantly reduced the risks of further delays
and cost overruns. The element of risk cannot, however, be totally eliminated
in such a technically complex project.
55.        The cost of the realignment including all contingencies has
increased about 140 percent over the original estimate of US$148.8 million,
caused by the following:
(i) a 23 percent increase as a result of the armed raid of
January 1977;
(ii) a 61 percent increase due to higher than expected inflation,
the extension of the construction period, and currency rea-
lignments;
(iii) a 41 percent increase resulting from slope stability problems,
worse-than-expected geological conditions in the tunnels, three



- 16 -
additional bridges to avoid difficult terrain, additional drain-
age works, removal of facilities endangered by landslides, and
the cost of additional studies for design alterations; and
(iv) a 15 percent increase due to higher cost of buildings and tele-
communications, and to the extension of Tecsult's contract for
the supervision of the works until completion of the project.
56.       The proposed supplementary financing was appraised in November
1979 and a post-appraisal mission visited the Congo in January 1980. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington between April 23 and 29, 1980, and the Congolese
delegation was led by H.E. Nicolas Mondjo, Ambassador to the UN and to the US,
and Mr. Francois Bita, Director General of ATC. Key events and special condi-
tions are listed in Annex III. No staff appraisal report has been prepared.
Project Description
57.       The proposed project consists of the following:
(a) the completion of the CFCO realignment, including earthworks,
bridges and tunnels; track and ballast; signaling and telecommuni-
cations equipment; and station buildings and staff housing;
(b)  the procurement of machinery for maintaining and repairing
the realigned section; and
(c) consulting services for supervision and assistance to ATC in
preparing and negotiating amendments to the civil works contract for
the realignment.
Engineering
58.       The final engineering of the remaining works of the realignment has
been done, including all corrective works to reduce the risks of landslides in
the cuts, change the alignment where needed and to alter the design to obtain
the maximum capacity for the realigned section.
Implementation and Supervision
59.       The realignment's remaining civil works will be executed by the
contractor consortium ASHFO consisting of: Astaldi (Italy); Fougerolle
(France) and Holzmann (Germany), following ATC's design. The contract between
ATC and ASHFO needs amendment adequately to reflect changes in the design and
scope of the work. The contract for the telecommunications system has been
awarded under terms and conditions accepted by AfDB and the Government, who
are jointly financing this component under the original financing plan.
ATC will establish before January 1, 1982, and maintain a special maintenance
brigade capable of operating the earthmoving machinery provided in the proj-
ect, keep the slopes and drainage works along the new line in good condition,
install instruments to monitor the critical areas and remove in as short a
period of time as possible obstructions on the track from landslides and
fallen rocks (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). ATC will



- 17 -
provide quarterly inspection reports and, through December 31, 1985, semi-
annual geological investigative reports on the critical slopes along the
realignment (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement). ATC will also
maintain the old line linking Bilinga to Loubomo in operational condition at
least three years after completion of the works in case of a major accident on
the new section (Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement). This is
necessary because, in spite of the fact that the design has been amended to
avoid the major risks of landslides, all risk of slope failure cannot be
eliminated at a reasonable cost.
60.       The arrangements described above for the supervision of the remain-
ing works and supplies are acceptable, except for the long tunnel. Excavation
of the remaining part (2,000 m) of the long tunnel is expected to encounter
increasingly difficult conditions. This work is on the critical path of the
project and delays would entail considerable cost increases. ATC's and
Tecsult's staff do not have sufficient expertise to supervise these works
adequately. ATC will therefore continue to employ consultants Electrowatt,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to supervise the
contractor during completion of the long tunnel. ATC will also obtain appro-
priate legal assistance to prepare and negotiate contract amendments. Electro-
watt will provide technical advice to the legal counsellor. These arrange-
ments are acceptable to the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Cost
61.       Based on  he new design of the remaining works and available
engineering studies, cost estimates have been prepared by ATC and consul-
tants Tecsult.   Electrowatt and the Association have reviewed these esti-
mates and found them realistic. The total estimated cost of the realign-
ment, net of identifiable taxes from which project is exempt but including all
contingencies, amounts to CFAF 75 billion (US$357.2 million equivalent) with a
67 percent foreign cost component and is summarized in the Credit and Project
Summary.
62.       The cost estimates are based on the following:
(a) Physical contingencies are calculated on remaining works with
the following assumptions: (i) earthworks, structures, track
works - 15 percent; (ii) tunneling works - 25 percent; (iii)
additional contingencies for the occurrence of one major accident
during excavation of the long tunnel - CFAF 400 million.
(b) Price contingencies are calculated on the remaining works by
linear extrapolation of past trends, on the period January
1980 - March 1982: (i) oil - 33.4 percent; (ii) local labor - 9
percent; (iii) expatriate labor - 13 percent; (iv) material - 20
percent. Additional price contingencies in the amount of CFAF 1.0
billion have been added to take into account a possible extension
of the construction period until July 1982 and increases on oil,
labor and material beyond the extrapolated trends (oil - 36
percent; labor - 20 percent; and material - 25 percent).



- 18 -
(c) The man-month cost for the supervision of tunneling works and
the preparation of amendments to the civil works contract is based
on the rates applied for the recent reevaluation mission carried
out by Electrowatt. The man-month rate is US$12,500, which is
normal for the high caliber expertise required for this assignment.
The reimbursable expenses, such as international travel, subsis-
tence and other allowances applicable in the Congo, and the
cost of the reports, are estimated at US$3,500 per man-month.
Completion Date
63.       When the project was first appraised, the new line was expected to
be put into service in mid-September 1979. After the armed raid, the
contractual completion date was extended to September 1, 1980. The best
estimate to date is that the works will be completed by the end of March
1982 or 30 months behind the original schedule. Worse than expected geologi-
cal conditions in the long tunnel might prolong the construction period by
at least four months, in which case the new section would be put into
service by the end of July 1982, the date used in the cost estimate; more
optimistic assumptions provide for a completion date around January 1982.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       The civil works contract for the realignment was awarded to ASHFO
following international competitive bidding. The works will be continued
under the present contract with amendments acceptable to the Association,
which are being prepared. The contract is considered appropriate for continu-
ation of Association financing. To alleviate the project's cash flow diffi-
culties, the Association would continue to disburse (as under Loan No. 1228-
COB) at 38 percent for these works (except tunnelling) until January 1981
approximately and thereafter at 13 percent for the entirety of these works
when other donor's funds are expected to be available.
65.       Electrowatt, assisted by counsel being selected, will review
the civil works contract on behalf of ATC and prepare appropriate amendments
to be negotiated with ASHFO.
66.       The existing contract with Tecsult for supervision of the civil
works will be extended until completion of the works with additional CIDA
financing. However, the full responsibility for the supervision of the
tunneling works will be given to Electrowatt, whose present contract would
be extended for this purpose, on conditions and terms acceptable to the
Association. Retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 is needed after
April 1, 1980, for contract negotiation and supervision of the tunneling
works.
67.       The necessary earthworks machinery for maintenance of the realign-
ment will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding fol-
lowing Bank Group guidelines.



- 19 -
ancinPlan
68.       The total supplementary financing required to complete the Second
Railway Project is estimated at US$167 million equivalent of which the IDA
contribution of US$30 million represents 18 percent. Other donors' respective
contribution and lending terms are expected to be in US$ million equivalent:
(a)  European Development Fund           US$25.7       60 percent grant and
40 percent at 40 years,
including 10 years of
grace at 1 percent.
(b)  Sauti Development Fund              US$23)
)      Subject to negotiations.
(c)  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic             )
Development                     US$20)
(d)  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique                      US$7.8       US$4.3 million at 15 years
including 5 years of grace at
6 percent. Balance on com-
mercial terms.
(e)  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation    US$6.7         Grant.
(f)  OPEC Special Fund                   US$5         Probably 20 years including
5 years of grace, 0 percent
interest.
(g) Canadian International
Development Agency              US$4.1       50 years.
(h)  African Development Bank            US$3.7        Probably 18 years, including
4 years of grace, 8.5 per-
cent interest.
69.       The financing plan is basically satisfactory although a gap may
remain (due to the lack of confirmation of contributions from Iraq, Italy
and Qatar) of the equivalent of US$23.5 million or 14 percent. The Govern-
ment has, however, guaranteed that these funds will be made available when
called for under the established disbursement plan and will furnish
assurances, satisfactory to the Association, that these funds will be made
available as a condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01(c)(ii) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). These arrangements are considered acceptable
to the Association in view of the exceptional circumstances prevailing,
namely that it is considered essential that project execution not be inter-
rupted. In view thereof, other donors and the Government have also requested
that only flexible cross effectiveness conditions be applied since some
cofinanciers may require longer time than others to make their funds avail-
able. Consequently cross effectiveness will be required with: FED (for
US$9.5 million equivalent), AfDB, CCCE (first window contribution of US$4.3
million equivalent), CIDA (for US$3.2 million equivalent), FAC and OPEC
Special Fund (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). As



- 20 -
for remaining funds the Association will require satisfactory evidence that
they would be forthcoming (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The co-donors have agreed that, as soon as all funds have been
approved and made available most remaining work would be combined into one
single category of which each donor would finance a percentage corresponding
to the respective funds available at that time. The funds of the Associa-
tion would be used to contribute to this item after deductions for: the ser-
vices of Electrowatt (US$900,000) and earthworking equipment (US$1,100,000).
In view of the difficult financial situation of ATC and its high debt service
for many years to come, it has been agreed that 40 percent of IDA's supplemen-
tary financing will be onlent to ATC over 25 years, including 6 years of
grace, at 8.5 percent interest while the remainder be used by the Government
to strengthen ATC's equity (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The execution of subsidiary loan agreement for the onlending of
the proceeds of the credit to ATC on these terms is a condition for effective-
ness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Justification
70.       The justification of the project when initially appraised in 1975
rested on economic projections calling for a substantial increase in timber
production in northern Congo--550,000 tons in 1980--which, together with
expected traffic increases from other countries served by the ATC transport
system, would exceed the capacity of the CFCO line. The realignment was
expected to remove this capacity bottleneck and allow the potential develop-
ment of timber and other freight to take place. The cost of the investment
was estimated at US$149 million. On the basis of the expected increases in
production and savings in rail operating costs, the economic rate of return
was estimated at 18 percent. This rate took into account that some repairs,
basically the reinforcement of a tunnel and a number of bridges, would have
to be made on the existing line if the new line were not built. The economic
analysis also compared the realignment to two other investment alternatives,
namely (a) constructing a road between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire and (b)
improving the line through a series of partial realignments. These alterna-
tives were discarded because their investment costs were comparable to the
realignment while giving rise to higher transport costs in the case of the
road and providing only a limited capacity increase and higher operating
costs in the case of line improvement.
71.       In contrast to the initial projections, traffic increased only
marginally during the period as a result of the stagnation of the Congolese
economy and of delays in the development of forest resources. Due to the
reasons given in para. 55, the cost of the project has increased sharply
to an estimated US$357 million, or an increase of 140 percent over the initial
estimate in current dollars (and about 100 percent in constant money). On
the basis of the new cost estimates and revised, substantially lower traffic
forecasts (northern Congo timber reaching 99,000 tons in 1980 and 283,000 tons
in 1985, or 82 percent and 70 percent less than the original forecast, respect-
ively), the rate of return for the complete realignment investment would now
be about 2 percent. This rate illustrates the dramatic changes in costs and
benefits. However, at this time, the appropriate economic criterion for
assessing the justification for completing the realignment, now about 65
percent completed, is to consider future costs only.



- 21 -
72.       In reassessing the economic justification under present circum-
stances, all the alternatives initially studied have been re-analyzed. The
two investment alternatives, improving the existing line and building a road,
would not be any more attractive now because they would have to be constructed
through the same difficult terrain as the realignment and, in the light of
the enormous geological difficulties encountered, it can be safely assumed
that their costs would be substantially higher than initially estimated, and
certainly not less than the costs of the remaining realignment works. A
possible use of the completed sections of the realignment for the road, to
reduce its cost, was investigated but found not to be feasible because major
work would be required to widen cuts, fills and tunnels to road standards.
In addition, a road could probably not be in service before the end of the
decade. This would leave the region short of transport capacity for a long
period, as a detailed reassessment of the CFCO made by consultants in 1978
showed that the line is close to saturation. On the other hand, the ATC
network will remain, for many years to come, the only outlet to the sea for
most CAR import-export traffic, manganese from Gabon and timber from southeast
Cameroon and Gabon, as well as the backbone of Congo's own transport system.
73.       The economic analysis focusses, therefore, on comparing the costs
and benefits of completing the realignment versus stopping the works and
repairing the existing line. The benefits are those mentioned above, that is,
savings in operating costs and avoidance of potential traffic frustration--
which would occur even under the substantially reduced forecasts--with conse-
quent losses in value added. In estimating benefits from frustrated traffic
it is assumred that all manganese will be diverted to the Transgabonese railway
upon its expected ccnpletion in 1989.  The costs to be considered are the
investment required co complete the realignment, special maintenance costs of
the new railway platform until the slopes are stabilized and Government
participation in proposed forestry investments. The analysis also takes into
account, should the works be stopped, the costs of repairing the existing
line, damage payments to the contractor, and materials (rails, sleepers, etc.)
which could be sold or re-used. The rate of return for completing the
realignment on a sunk-cost basis would be 13 percent for the entire region
served by the ATC, and 12 percent for the Congo alone, based on ATC's net
revenues from transit traffic and value added of Congolese production. Both
rates of return would be fully acceptable.   As discussed below, there are
important uncertainties which could increase or decrease the return. However,
barring stagnation of Congolese timber production, which seems unlikely given
present investor interest, the return would not fall below an acceptable
level.
Uncertainties and Risks
74.       The history of this project indicates indisputable elements of
uncertainty which cannot be eliminated through recourse to further extensive
study or the inclusion of conditions of lending. The best that can be
attained through such measures is a narrowing of the range of these uncertain-
ties to a point where they are reasonably contained. The most important of
these areas of uncertainty, and the steps proposed to limit their potential
influence, may be summarized as follows:



- 22 -
(i) Traffic Forecasts and their Effects on ATC Financial
Results and the Expected Economic Return from the Project.
75.       In the course of preparing the project, traffic forecasts have
been reviewed intensively on a commodity basis. This was also true for
the original appraisal of the Second Railway Project, yet stagnation of
the Congo's economy and a slump in the world timber market confounded the
appraisal estimates. Current best estimates assume a modest growth in both
general cargo and timber industry.  Caution would suggest that both traffic
elements are subject to great uncertainty. However, all evidence suggests
that general cargo and petroleum traffic is more likely to exceed forecasts
than fall short and even a 10 percent increase over forecast levels would
increase the economic rate of return from 13 percent to 20 percent. On the
other hand, continued long-term stagnation in timber production, in spite of
Government initiatives, could reduce the economic return to an unacceptable
level (2 percent). However, several proposals for the establishment of
timber-producing units in the Congo's rich northern timber reserves have
recently emerged and one contract with the Government has been negotiated.
To interject some assurance that further progress will be made in developing
timber reserves and ensuring a growth in timber traffic commensurate with
the Congo's potential and the railway's increased capacity, target dates for
entering into one forestry agreement and for making satisfactory progress on
a second have been agreed upon.
76.       Needless to say, ATC's assumed operating revenue and cash genera-
tion are equally sensitive to the forecasts of traffic. Any major shortfalls
will require additional financial support for ATC to meet its minimum capital
needs and debt service obligations. It would not be realistic to cover
potential future cash deficits through higher tariff increases than planned.
The financial uncertainty will be covered through the Government undertaking
to maintain ATC's working capital and to support the debt service needs as
appropriate (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The limitations on debt and investment will also permit close monitoring of
ATC's future liabilities and prevent over-investment in facilities when
traffic volume does not justify it. Higher than expected traffic, on the
other hand, would generate a much higher than proportional increase in ATC's
net cash flow.
(ii) ATC's Operational Efficiency
77.       Marked deterioration in operational efficiency levels, particu-
larly those of the CFCO and the ATC's river transport services, would have a
detrimental effect on both traffic (and hence revenues) and operating costs.
The Second Railway Project provided for technical assistance to the ATC to
maintain and improve productivity. In spite of this, the ATC suffered a
serious decline in efficiency, largely as a result of policy, staff and main-
tenance problems already discussed. Should ATC's operational efficiency con-
tinue to decline, with its consequent impact on traffic and finances, recourse
to the Government's undertaking to maintain ATC's financial viability will
become paramount. However, steps taken to recover former operational stan-
dards have been successful and provision has been made to improve efficiency
further through the implementation of ATC's action plan and achievement of



- 23 -
agreed operational targets. Furthermore, the Government will undertake in a
supplementary letter agreed upon during negotiations, not to make any changes
in ATC's top management without consulting with the Association, thereby
assuring that ATC will maintain continuity in its present competent management
team.
(iii) Further Changes in Project Cost
78.       Uncertainties with respect to the final project cost have been
clearly demonstrated in the past due to a number of factors. The present
stage of completion (about two-thirds) and the recent intensive geological,
geo-technical and topographical studies of the remaining works have served to
reduce the current uncertainties markedly. However, in spite of all precau-
tions taken in the latest estimates, there is a possibility that the final
cost could be noticeably higher or lower than these estimates. The princi-
pal uncertainty is the remaining section of the tunnel, which could yield
conditions appreciably better or worse than expected. There is little
chance that further studies at this juncture would yield less uncertainty or
be worth the cost of an interruption of the ongoing works. To ensure comple-
tion of the tunnel at the least possible cost, ATC has selected a new,
experienced consultant to take full supervision responsibility for the
tunnel, and the contractor has been required to strengthen and improve the
staff on site.
(iv) Funding
79.       Any interruption in the supplies of funds for the continuation
of the project could have disastrous consequences for the completion of
the project and for its costs. Consequently several measures have been
proposed to reduce this risk:
(a) to ensure availability of funds through 1980 the Government will
provide CFAF 1 billion as condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01(c)(i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(b)  to ensure that not only the funds to be provided by the Government
but also those of unconfirmed co-donors be made available on time,
a disbursement schedule has been prepared (Annex 1 - 4b of the
draft Development Credit Agreement) stating that unless the Govern-
ment has, by the beginning of each quarter, made available funds
corresponding to its own and the unconfirmed donors' share for this
quarter's payments, no withdrawals from the proceeds of the credit
shall be made.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of the Congo and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications



- 24 -
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1
(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
81.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and the Agence Transcongolaise des Communica-
tions (para. 69);
(b) taking measures required to increase ATC's tariffs on both
domestic and international traffic for 1981 pursuant to the
provisions of Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement (para. 49); and
(c) availability of other funds as per Section 6.01(c), (d) and (e)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement (paras. 69 and 79).
Special conditions of disbursements are:
(a) evidence that the Government has, by the beginning of each
quarter, made available funds corresponding to its own and the
unconfirmed donors' share for this quarter's payments (para.
79); and
(b) disbursements will first be made at a percentage of 38 percent
for the civil works (except tunneling) and then at a percentage
of 13 percent to be adjusted if need be, for the entire civil
works (including tunneling) when other donors' funds are
expected to be available and disbursed on a joint basis (paras.
64 and 69).
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 21, 1980



- 25-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
CONGO n PEoPLEs REP. - SOCIAL tHDLc.TORs DATA gLEE.
A.CONG. PWIZS ItEp.       RID! ENGROUPS (AUSTED AgRACES
LaND AaeA (THOUSA-ND sQ- RM.)                CONCO, PIDl'LtS RZ .            - XOST tECENT EST 4  3)
MEtAL            342.0                                                   SAME        SAME     NEXT RICHEt
AGRICULTUFAL     149.5                                IBST tECtN      CEOCAIC    LNCOHt          INCOME
1960  b    1970 A  ESTIMATE L        REGION  :   GROUP /d    G.0UP j
Go? . R CAPlTA (US$3                 220.0       320.0      540.0           306.1      467.5      1097.7
EMEGY CONSLIXPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     119.0       194.0     142.0            80.6       262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIS-ICS
POQPLATION, MID-YEU  tMILLIONS)      1.0         1.2        1.4
UUAN PoPULATION (PCERZNT O0 TOTAL) 33.0         34.8      3s.8             17.1       24.6        49.0
POPULATON PROJECTIONS
POPULATION  I TMAt 2000 (XILLIONS)                       3.0
STATIONAIT POPLATION (MILLIONS)                          7.0
ThAR ST&TIONAIY POPULATION IS REACED                  2115
POPULATION DENSItY
PER SQ. C3.                        3.0         4.0       4.0             18.4       45.3        44.6
PEP SQ. U(. ACRICULTURAL LAND     7.0         8.0       9.0            50.8      149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 TrS.                         41.8        41.8      43.0            44.1        45.2        41.3
L5-64 YRS.                         55.0        55.0      54.0            52.9       51.9        55.3
65 YRS. &ND ABOVE                   3.2         3.2       3.0             2.8         2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RAST (PUCERT)
TOTAL                              1.6         2.1       2.5              2.7        2.7         2.4
URBAN                              3.8         2.6       3.0              5.7        4.3         4.5
CRuDE STItTE RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0        45.0      46.0             46.3       39.4        31.1
CRM.E D1ATH RATE (PM TOUUSAND)      27.0        22.0       19.0            17.2       11.7         9.2
GROSS RlPRODUCTION RATE               ..         2.8       3.0              3.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS  ANNUAL (TEOUSADS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF nARtIED WO1 N)   ..           ..        ..              ..        13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
DFDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1  9-71-100)         127.0        99.o      86.0            94.3        99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPI F OF
CALORIES (PERLENT OP
REQUIREnNNTS)                   97.0        97.0      98.0            89.5        94.7       105.0
PREINS (GRMS PE DAY)              40.0        40.0      41.9             55.8       54.3        64.4
OP WHICH AniAL IM PFULSE          ..        23.0f       ..             17.9       17.4        23.5
CUWLD (AGES 1-4) MOTALITY RATE      40.0        32.0      27.0             22.3       11.4         8.6
dEALtN
LiFE EXPECTANCY AT  ILTS (TEARS)    37.0        42.0      46.0             47.0       54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PQR
THOUSAD)                           1Po.0          ..        ..              ..        68.1        46.7
ACrCtSS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        27.0      38.0            20.3        34.4        60.8
URBAN                               ..          ..      81.0            53.9        57.9        75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       9.0             22.5       40.8        46.0
URBN                                ..         8.0      10.0            62.5        7L.3        46.0
RURAL                               ..         6.0       9.0            13.9        27.7        22.5
POPULATION PtR PHSICIAN          130QO.00     9160.0    7320.OA         17424.7     6799.4      2282.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PtRSON     1460.0k      670.0     H)0.0          2506.6    1522.1       i195.4
POPWLATION PeR ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            220.0jj    22O.OLj   190.0            302.3       726.5       453.4
URBAN                               *-          *-     230-0           201.4       272.7       253.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..          1403.6      1404.4      2732.4
AONISSIONS PER HOSPITJAL SCD          ..        22.8Li    28.6Lj           23.4       27.5        22.1
YOUSING
AVIUAGE SIZE OF NOUSEROLD
TOTAL                              4.5          ..        ..             4.9         5.4         5.3
URtAN                               ..          ..        ..             4.9         5.1         5.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             5.5         5.5         5.4
AVEGAE NMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.7          ..        ..              ..         ..          1.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          1.6
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PtRCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              4.0/k        ..        ..              ..        28.1        50.0
RBAN                                ..          ..        ..              ..       45.1         71.7
tURtAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        9.9         17.3



-26-                                                  ANNX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  2  of  5  Pages
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO,PEOPLE  REP. REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
CONGO, PEOPLES RED'.          - IOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -a
SAME        SAHE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 78.0       133.0     155.0            59.0       82.7        102.5
MALE                103.0       150.0    166.0             64.2       87.3        108.6
FEMALE               53.0       116.0     143.0            44.2       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 4.0        19.0      52.0             9.0       21.4         33.5
XALE                  6.0        27.0      66.0            12.0       33.0         38.4
FEMALE                2.0        11.0      37.0             4.4       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 28.0         10.0       6.3             7.0        9.8         11.5
PUPtL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           53.0        60.0      61.0            42.2       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                         20.0        33.0      41.0            22.9       23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.6        50.0/i      ..            20.8        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TbOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        12.6      14.7             4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        13.0        69.0      60.0            44.3       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.9       3.8             2.9       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  1.0         0.7        ..             5.6       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDAICE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       0.9             0.4        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      360.0       520.0/1   580.0/1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  38.0        37.1      37.0            31.9       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.7        41.8      36.0            77.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                16.8        21.5      26.0             7.9       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               37.4        35.9      35.2            40.8       37.1         33.5
MALE                                48.3        46.9      45.7            53.9       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                              27.4        25.7      25.2            25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.1       1.1             1.2        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIJUSION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              ..       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..              ..       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              ..        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              ..       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA.N                                          *-        *            187.6      241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            96.8      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           138.4      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..     167.0            71.0      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION 8ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOtE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            34.5       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            48.7       37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extrame
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Lower Middle Income  (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1965;   a  1962;  /h  Government establishment only;  /i  1967;
/j  1972;  /k  Data for city of Pointe-Noire only;   /1 Total population in age 15-59.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-27 -                                                  ANNEX I-
c1FnmC Of swra INDIcATO                                             Page  3 of 5 pages
Mse    lthae    the ata  re  ra   fe. mranse generaLly judged the meat  ithorittive sand relisle, it Should also be noted that thep y   s ot ha Luterna-
i!~u   napahi  beoas of theoik of standardized definitions ad concepts used by different -onutrie. In colsetlvg the data. The data .rs, nonethaies,
usefult  deerihe ocdere of esbtode, Iicains treade, end ohractermss cuertain ajor diffrerces betee  cousutrin..
Teg4fp   g4ntspfo   fo   ach indicator wre population-esighted geomeric acmen, exluding the ettemn values of the indicator  an  the met poPulated
cast   jiduhispThmeto ink of data, crneavree  of all indicator. for Capital Surpl-s Oil . dporer.m sd of indicators of A .cese to Water s-d ftcreta
Disposal, heusing, Inca Detributilon and Povrty for other c_try  rusase poelatioo-eightsd goactrio ea-o  oithout excluion of the extr-  value  md
the mat Populated country. SInce,tecvrg  ofImutise smg; the  ndctore depends on ao Iitty of data and is no u                           rfe.. outionms be eerised
in relating   -amass of one indicator tosoother  IThemeaverages are  0etly useful -  annr=xVtbo"fD            epetd  vlus   h   eozepang the  auso.n
indicator *t . tins aeng the. coutry ad  -eer.gc-
lAI AREA (thousad mq.ke..)                                                             Acesto frta  iR sl(ercent of  Iop  -               In  - total. ur an,d rura  -
Total - Total aortae area  1opi -o ad area mod inland onters.                          Mushe ofpeopl(ttal  urPban, ad rota.  mZv. by srt   iposal as
Agricultoural - tat recet eatlate of agricultural  -re  osed teep.rily                 Perceotage  of their repective populations. ftocetn diap .. ar myInclude
or peranently for crop, pastures, sar,ket mod kitobon goften  or to                 tie colcinad diapo..al, oith or cithoot treteasot, of  smean corete
lie fallo,                                                                           ad emote-eater by ctain-borne systee  or the  -s  of pit Priviesad u.a-lar
GNP      CAPTA (S4)- aN? Per capta satiates   nocurrent, mst Prices,             Potalation prpyiln-Ppltindetdb    ie   f  rciigpyiia
o   UIted.D  mai cOnverson eatd - World Senst Atias (1976-78 bunts);                   quaified irce   aeia  sobool ati  dniveraiby iee.b.   fp-iigpyiih
1l6o, iflo,-ad 1978 data.                                                            Popeulation Per Aursing Peraso - Population dicided by Dmbte  of praticing ala
r                    DIM! CIUSUWflUI    uR CAPiTA - Anonal cooumtion of coasroil Ifer                         ad feale grdute nsraes  pratical oursem, ad asmietmot   -mee.
(cogad bgait,  petrcleu, natural gas ad tydr-, nularmd ce-                            Popultion per gdoeita1l Ped  total ubau mod rural - Popuation (total, urba,
thermal. electricity) in kilogrens of coal equiv,alent per capota; 196ad rural  dile   y their repciveoutr of hoptlbeds a'uilble in
1970, MCI 1976 data,                                                                   public sod private gene.ral sod upeialicd hcuopital an  oaiittd    cnoo
H.spitalo are eatabliahenuts perameeotly taffed by at least tone physician.
PORTiATION AND VrTAL STATISTICS                                                          istablisienots Providng priocipally custodial car  are ant included. Rural
Total Pouaion. Mid-Yen  million) - As of July 1; IptO, 1970, sd                        bhopitalo, bh-ece, include boaltb and ardical centera cot pereanntly starred
-                        ~~~~~~~1917 date,                                                                     by_a phyo icia  (lot by a medical nosistant, ouree, mideife, etc. ohiob offer
Urban Pplain(perceot of total) - Ratio of orio  to total Polou1ation;                  o-patient  -ocamdation ad provide a Iiiitd range of medical fucilotia..
different definitions of urban ovn  my effect coapuraillity of data               bdaioeico  proital Bed - Total ,cabe-  f adaisions to or di-ciarges iron
erscutries; l(6O  1970, and 1975 dntobopao  dirda   y tho nuehr of bod..
Poonlat Ion Proj-etiono
F.matin 1 Yer 2DO- Current popultion proJeotios ace based on              HOUSING
1975 total pejsul.tion by age ad  -a ad their acrtaLity sod fertility           Average Sine of Hnusheld (pronam.e  hoseol)  tta.  r an.sd rural -
rates. feujqotimc paatr  for aortality rates  -Wyise of those                     A husehld consists of a group ofidvda.eaPhaerrn   ureaa
tevls asnau-ng life sopsotancy at birth  noreeains with coomotry' e              their abi  eals. A hoarder or lodger my or amy sot be included uo the
per capita incm levl, ad f ale  life expctany atehilining at                      houshoid for statiattual purposes.
77.5 yeas.  The pareatars for rortility rate oLso hove thes  levels             Av-as ouober cf prosorro    total,Iurban  adrual-Avrgeoue
usnumig deln  in fertility acoording to inca evel a-       d past                 ofprospr u.i l urban  adrrlocpied conntional dwellings,
ifaily planning perfcreence. tach cOuntry is then  asaigned cue of thee ..          e..Pectivell.  N-llingo ecclode non-perasnot structure  and unoccpied porno.
tine combinatio-  cIf  rtality and fertility treods for proecion.oea to Electriity (percect If dtioce)   II toa, Iuba,adrua  -  Con-
oovpoe... etiona  ieligo o-th electricityiniig qatrsope-ctage of
Sttonrpouat       ic:Z. o   -iaotationary population there ic to gr-th              total,  rban, and rural deeligo repectively.
sinc  th  bibrae1 oqul to the doath rate, ad aLso. tie age
ot-ot-r  r-aiosc-taot. Thin -Os -hitevd only ofter ferilityreato              EIOJAT ION
dedlite to the replncment l-evei  un-it set r-p-duction rate,  ben              tdju-ted Enrolleet Ratico.A        d
caci dese-tioc  If onn, replecro itooif eouctly.  The stationar  Ppe-              Primary ocioi - tota.       I fean  iani    Grl..a total, eel, ad ifasle enrol-
iaticn oboe ca  estimottd on tie bauio  If the projected obhacterioti-o              tp of all age  at tbprory lvla  perentages of repective pri-ay
of tepouaIo booeps- a00, ann tie rote of edlIcie of fertility                        ooolAeppltoe   oo.-liy includes ocildron aged 6-1i yearn  ut
rate torpiscso  leve.                                                               aujotod for diff-erot leagthe of primay educatico; for coontr-e  cith
00e stationary ooouitticn is reached - The year on stationary puplatios               oiorsl  d ..ation varolmeaut any  -exed lOd percet since sa  popils
ci-e m. been reachd.                                                                aebeie or above the official ochcci age.
fPopulaticn Dosl                                                                       rc aysbol-otl.ml  o  fee,l  - Cmmted asabve                          ..co-sY
Per 0. km      id-year population Pro sqor  kiloaetor (100 heotares) of                docioreuestlatfuryrafapovdpieftry i-truotit;,
total uraprovides gesral  -nctioval, or teacher ftraile   isOuo ofor pupils
Perx o. h. agricultural land - CoMpusd -  nitr  for agiutua  an                         saly of L2 tO 27 ye-r  of age;  crop noe corse  ar g-roeriy
Iny                                                                                  occlded.
Pylaonarlctuepret-Cbirn(-lea-u,crking-age                                         oticoleoouo   pret If oe...ndsry( - Vocational imotitutuos include
Y5h  peM                                                                                              drtrd(iyasadoe)a  pretgso   i-ertcncl  iutrial  cc othe  progreae chick operate ladepand-otly. or a
poation  ipt0, 1970, and 1977 d.t..                                                dIprtanto ci  -odary ins.titutions.
Population Growth Oats (percent)I - tota  -         --oulceh rates of total nit-     'P,uil-te-htr ratio - crPn-   ano uecncry - Total studets. co1llo  ic
pearpoplatcos  or 950 IG,lG70   n   9707.                                      pr-sr  ad  -conds-y lvi  tiied             umbers cc tenchers i-u tie coe
Once -    Rft  (po-ctoL- rban - Aoo-ia greh canoe or urbansota   o o
populatioss fur 1950-6O, I960l-70, ad 1970-77.                                      Adult ltItracy ra%tepercen) - Literote edulto (able to peat ad -nce) a
Crude Birth date   or. thuad) - bnnuel Ioe birth. per thbuoud of sod-                   apIo-etag  cI totaf       a t poptltico aged 15 Years and over.
yea.  oulto; lh0  1970, sui i977 data
Crude  e1althat (per thousan) - onmat deatto Per ticouso  onIt-ea                 CG5000PfGUN
populatio; 19hO, 1910  mod 1917 data.                                              Psacoger Cur  (per thouand popultioc) - Passengecare            compieator core
Gross Peprouo  date  A-.berg   ,uaber of daughters  iomncll bear.. tsig loss thso eight per..c.n; eciodus ambulances,  beaseai elitucy
in-e onrl rproductive perod if she.oocee  presot age-                              vboe
speifis fertility ratns;  -usuly fiv-your averages ending is 196,                 us1dceiver (per thuso cpltion) - Al pope  of reneivers fur radio
i970, adf197l                                                                       ircad-to tc gce.ral pu!bldic pe1r thosad of population; enco1des unli.cnsd
Penly Plannqin- AcePtors.               Annual (huad)-d e nuber of                     reecr-ncatusmd lu year   hen. regiotratien of radio sets  -s in
acoptura of birth_-cotroldeis une         Insoe  of satinonl feebly                 effect; data for recet years my out be compaale  inice mit countriem
Planncing progan.                                                                    bolinhed licening.
Famuy PannIg -jeer (prcet o  erie ,sa     - Percentage of nurried            TV Rnoev-r  (nor thooano popuation) - TV receivers for hroadoat to general
enof child-beaig-    g  (-iper)houebirth-control devices                         Public per thuadpultion; secldes  unIcensed TV recei-mr in countries
to al mearied mea  in sam  age group.                                               ad is year  eden vitratios of T  ets  an LIo effect.
~~fh WPNITIEW                                                NewsP~~~~~9-ayer Circulaiioc Par thousa  `nnulatios) - Since the averge cirJaltiem
Eaeo  70 rdto er            Caia 1ih -lICO() - loden of Per caita                       do.t    pily genZ 'Peral nertteppe,dfnda  a. periodical pbliao
anelproduction of allfoodcditiea91.-  Produoction exeldee  .a  ad                 eod   prriy to rcdig genrlue.I  scmiee  oh    aI'
fed  ndi  o  cledr sa   ass,Eaiim ovr  praryhi.9" godsClme AnoualI Atdao perCaita nor Year' - heed on the outr of tickats
(e.g agarcesm  insteado   sua)  hc are, Idihle and containnuriet                 sodPrn   h   er  o Lodo   uasin   odiei   iesmdml
(.g.cffee sad tea- aremoldasd). Aggregate pseuhuti-omf nab   toaf                unt..durnthyf.                      oscnt     iad-be
is haned en national  Vavrage Posuhuse prise  -ights
Per sIVb   Muneo   aois(eo of          ofrteiasat) - Cauted fet-                lAdDl ?ONC
ene   eqivalnt-f st food eop lle -aveiahi  incoutry per capita             1tfl         ore(hosns)-Rsi-eLly soty- p-oreo, including armd
pee day. A-altble oupplieecoprs  doasti  production, mporta I.ae                   fortes adt unemployed bu-ocIuding housei-e, atudenta, etc. Definitions
enprt, and ohange in etoci.  Net supplies esAud  soi-1 feed, seds,                in vaious cuoutries are ant c-erahi..
q,mstities umed in food Proos-sing, ad lse  ie distrihotion. R,puirs-           )a,       nn) - 1Pal  labor forc  as percentage of total abor frv..
aitm  -er  -tieted. by PAO based on physiolgical nests. for moral               9gj4~p~              ) - Labor force in farete, ,cr-mtcy, huatieg ad
activity ad health considerig  -nir-os t&L teqeprasure, body "logt.,               tubn  as P-Mten . of total labr force.
age ad madistrbutions of population, ad allowing 10 percent for                 Industry (percent) - Labor f-rc  In  ing, construiiu, esofaturiag and
osae a hsusbed lve,I                                                         electricity, flie  ad gas as Peroentags of total labor force.
Per capita     l  ofmrtin (ars  erdy- Prte ntcanet ofpr                    Pa,r.ic  uno  pate lercent) I- total, ale, sod fair  - Paticlipation or
capita setsupl  of faod Per dn Stspply of isod is drfiaeu                         ativty rasa ar  computedastal  ale   a   fale  Iabor force an per-
shavea. Requireacts for sll coustries established by USD  proide for a            ctge  of total, -le and feale poPulation of all ages respectively;
Asaslloahose  of d0 grae of total protois per dy mod 20 greme of              i;gA. 1970, ad i9T5 data. These ar  bIds participation rates reflecting
mini, sad Pusa protin, of thick  10 pa  shoul he anin  protein.                   aga-os  structure of the Population, ad tong ti- trend. A fee estient.s
Tham  tanflds are Inn  than tloes of 75 grea of total pstela and                  are foe- national~ souce.
23 gra, of eimmA Protein ea an averag  for the alt, proposed by, pAD                   IPis -  Ratl.oru population made 15 aod A5 mod ove  to
in the Thied Worid Pad ha-y.                                                    NWlbrboit.ropo   0-iyas
",M it. estei    l     in   oe,  dms             Protein epappi sf food                      r .L    .gopo   54ya
C  ahi ed  foe 1 nal   d  a4                    ow                                      Ht!aorPK%  Ineats             int cas.h ead kind) - Macaired by  iw
ChLa                                                                                                                             Percent,aktyh  a toued  nua dats  erioe-ntTea(bt  edohat
sa ag pom  1-u yaers, to obtidron in tibb   ag  greep; for mist derni-             P paroet, rinheat 20 p-arnt, poorestSOpne,a pnrt Dpet
cyPM6 osufftriss data derived fee. lifo tables,                                     ofhusol.
Life%c= 4 ra  ib  ras  - Averss nh                  r o pa  of life                 SaitdAb=n ovryIc   tee  ([So nPr_capitl -uenad ral-
InantMrtltyste(e  th aound)  A- Aoal deaths of intent  under one                      notritiosa11y adequate diet piou  ease...tia1 son-food requiota be out
peer of Age perthosh  idesbirtha.                                                   aftordabie.
Accss o Sfe lie  (ereIt of onolatos -total urban. ad rurel -                  Satimated. Rcltive Poverty    _. -ee  .Iy perreapits  - urban ad rurl  -
0.mr of Ppi.pl  (total, ubn  an   aa)   ihraonable  ccs  to                         Mural relatius povetyioes          eL _i netir   f-avrag  Par -aPita
af- aMvt- aOPPLY (iMncioe  treated sUrface fliers or untreated but                  Persenal. inom   of the .-tsary. Senbe leve  Le derived iroa the rural leve
.    Wonhasted ente  mo  an that free pootactd Osrb.lse, springs,                   cith  djusteet for lauhe coe o.tf 1triag in scbn  ara
ad senitary a*Is) as pareentages of their  epsotire pojelaitas  In                stiated Polto blwAslute Poet   nalae                           si  - urba a
eurhen area a Puhlic fatals or etendpet looatest net amra hnrrl-Preto   ouain(ra    drrl  h   r   abanluote -poo.rtt                                           "
enD ters fee., a hoess my ha cosidrad an haing sithin reasonable
oes ro thai hos.  In rura  area  rmeasombl.e acces amid iMly
that the hossswife or .aers of the boehId Ac at have an  pad atomaica  ad 8-cmL Onto DiiWoba
disEapWOOmMate part of the dap in fetehin  the fail9  a meter sesneada                                                 ..o AnaJlysi and Prolmtien  Deparit.
A.gast 1.979



- 28 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 (estimates)                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
Blns. CFAF                                         1967-72          1972-74          1974-77         1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                184.5       100.0                                  4.8              9.9             -3.2             2.9
Gross Domestic Investment            42.9        23.3                                  1.8             17.1            -13.6           26.9
Gross National Savings              -13.5         7.3                                 -2.1             29.5            -25.3            14.7
Current Account Deficit             -56.6        30.7                                  5.4             -8.5              9.1            -3.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                 83.8       45.4                                  8.3             36.6             -2.1            -1.1
Imports of Goods, NFS               122.1        66.2                                  6.4             12.3              2.8            -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
VJalue Added in GDP, 1976                     Labor Force                              V.A. per Worker
CFAF mLns.       t                        Thoussands    I                        CFAF  thousands 
Agriculture                        19,368           11.2                          210      38.0                         92.2           10.2
Industry                           59,310           34.2
Services                           77,924           44.9                        (361    (62.0                        (426.8           (89.8
Unidentified and Unallocated       16,84             9.7                        (        (                           (                (
Total/Average              173,436          100.0                         571      100.0                       303.7           1000.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Billions of CFAF and percentages)                                        of GDP
1967    1970    1972    1974    1        1976    1977    1978    1979         1967-72    1973/74       1975/76
Current Receipts               12.8    16.7    18.9    40.1    44.3    47.8    50.4    60.0    52.4            22.0        26.0        28.2
Current Expenditure            13.0    16.2    g-       39.3    46.6    48.5    57.4    70.1    52.5           21.8        26.0        31.
Current S urplus                -.2       .5    -1.6      .8   -2.3       -.7    -7.0   -10.1       -.1          .2         0          -2.M
Capital Expenditures             .7      1.0     2.5     7.1    18.2      8.5      2.5     5.0    11.4          2.0         4.4         4.8
External Assistance (net)       ..       ..      ..      2.6      1.9    -2.8    -2.9       .8      -.8         -.8         1.2          -.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1972       1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1979
(billions of CFAF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                           15.8      18.3       25.6       29.0      33.7       34.5      36.9       41.0
Bank Credit to the Government                    2.4        3.4       4.6       10.1      11.7       16.8      20.0       24.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector _/                17.6      19.9       22.8       29.3      38.0       38.9      39.4       44.o
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               16.1       16.7      17.2       16.9      17.9       16.9      16.4
Consumer Price Index (1975 _ 100) 3/            78.0      80.7       85.1      100.0     107.3      122.4     136.6
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index 2/                       9.8        3.5       3.7       19.8       7.3       14.1      11.6
Bank Credit to the Government               188.0      41.6       35.3     119.6       15.8      43.6       19.0       20.0
Bank Credit to the Enterprise Sector         12.1      13.1       14,6      28.5       29.7       2.4        1.3       11.7
i/   Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Includes public enterprises.
/   In the absence of a general price index.  Refers to consumption patterns of  higher income families.
Price indices for 1979 have been introduced, and they are not compatible with older indices.
Not available.



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page , Df 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF FAfMD,S                    1967     197       1974      1975      1977      1978           REZORDED MERCHANDISE EYPORTS (1967-78  0ERIOD AVERAGES IN B3ILLIOIS OF CFAF)
(estimates)
Amounts                      i
EXports of Goods,  h75                17.9     29.3      75.0      59.0      81.7      83.8                                     1967-72   1973/74   1975-76   1967-72   1973-76
Imports of Gioods, NFS               -32.8    -53.6    -83-9   -104        -1        -122.1
Resource Gop (deficit -)             -15.1    -2.3       3.9    -4.         -40.2tT3e                 Crude Oil                     .3       24.i       37.1        2.2       61.2
Wood Products               6.3        10.3        5.1       45.7       16.5
Investment Incoe and                                                                                  Agricultural Froducts       1.6          3.2       3.4       11.6        6.2
Interest Payments                   -1.9     -2.1      -4.5      -6.5    -10.0    -17.3             Others 3/                   5          j3 8         .0       4o.6       16.1
Other Factor Service Payments           .7        .4       -.7       .3       -.3       -,4 Total                                                                 100.0      100.0
Private Traesfers                      .9       -2.6    Z2         =25.      -6.7       -.6
Balance on Current Account           -17.0    -         -66.4    -57.3    -57.2    -5h.
Public Transfers                       2.6       5.0      4.O       7.4       5.4       7.7           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Direct Foreign Investment              5.7      16.7     17.1      22.1      32.9      78.3                                                                             in us$ min.
-                Net M & LT Borrowing                   1.7       5.4      16.2      9.5       8.4      15.5
Disbursements                     ..                                                                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                      930.3
Amortisation                       ..                                                               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital ..i.e.                   3.1      5.7      -2.9      10.5      -2.5      -3.0             Total Outstanding & Disbursed                                      930.3
Errors and Omissions                   3.1       4.9     -6.1       1.7                 2
Increase In Reserves                   -           .7        Thh -               1       6 _1/
dross Reserves (end of year)            .6       5,4      5.4       3.0       3.2                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO (ESTIMATE) FOR 1978
Net Reserves (end of year)              .7        .3      3.-       -.9      -6.7      -6.2             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                      20.8
Eon-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related M4aterials                                                                             Totautanamding & Disbursed
Imports           2/               ..       ..        ..        ..
of which: Petroleum                   1.2      ..        ..        ..       12.0       ..
Exports                             .1      1.1      38.5      28.3      39.2     46.o           IBRD/IDA LENDINR  (latest month) (Millions of uS$)
of which: Petroleum                    1       1.1     38.5      28.3      39.2      46.o
I2BRD       IDA
Oetstanding b Disbursed                            38.1         20.9
UoAl sbursed                                                    27.23
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                      4            2
1/ Accerding to Internal linascial Studies IMF.
9/ Estimated.
3/  Excludes reexport of :.iamonds.  Compris s non-oil, mineral and otner products asd  uarecorded reports.
BRati  of scheduled Debt Service payment  to Exports of Goods and Non-Fastor Services.
,/ AS of February 1900.
not available.
April 1980



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                          US$ millions
credit     Fiscal                                       (Amount less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower         Purpose            Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Seven loans and credits fully disbursed                 30.00    16.25
435-COB    1973        Congo         Livestock            -        5.60    1.32
1228-COB   1976        ATC           Railway
Realignment       38.00       -      0.86
1349-COB   1977        Congo         Second
Education          8.00      -       7.01
971-COBl/  1979        Congo         Petroleum            -        5.0     5.0
Total                            76.00    26.85   14.19
of which has been repaid         30.00     0.04
Total now held by Bank
and IDA2/                        46.00    26.81
Total undisbursed                 7.87     6.32   14.19
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Nil
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
C, PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 1349 Second Education Project: US$8 million Loan of May 5,
1977; Effective Date: November 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project provides for strengthening of educational planning
and creation of a primary teacher college, an education publications unit,
a technical teacher training department and a forestry school. Project
implementation is about two years behind schedule due to delays in contract
awards for civil works and equipment procurement. One component is being
re-bid and the Bank is examining a second award proposal for another compo-
nent. However, construction of two of the four project institutions is now
proceeding satisfactorily, and the Government has obtained additional external
assistance to cover cost overruns. Project management continues to be weak,
although the recent appointment of additional technical staff is expected to
improve supervision of construction and procurement.
Cr. No. 435   Livestock Project:  US$5.6 million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: April 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project is designed to increase beef output and surplus breeding
cattle and to provide training and applied research. Herd development is
still a problem although 650 head of breeding stock have been recently pur-
chased from Zaire. It is expected that 800 additional heifers can be obtained
during 1980 from the same source. The target for the herd size to be achieved
under the project has been revised downward to 10,000 head. Revenue from
sales will be lower than anticipated and, on the basis of revised projections,
will not exceed operating costs until 1983. Considerable progress has been
achieved on the training and research components and in establishing a ranch-
ing system suitable to the country. The building program still has to be
completed.
Ln. No. 971    Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project:
US$5 million Credit of April 11, 1980. Not
Yet Effective.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Due to the nature of the proposal this section is abbreviated to contain
only events related to supplementary financing.
(a)  Date of first presentation to the Bank
to consider the proposal:                            April 1979
(b)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:              November 1979
(c)  Date of completion of negotiations:                  April 29, 1980
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:                       October 1, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (para. 69);
(b) taking measures required to increase ATC's tariffs on both domestic
and international traffic for 1981 pursuant to the provisions of
Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (para. 49);
and
(c) availability of other funds as per Section 6.01 (c), (d) and (e)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement (paras. 69 and 79).
Special conditions of disbursements are:
(a) evidence that the Government has, by the beginning of each quarter,
made available funds corresponding to its own and the unconfirmed
donors' share, for this quarter's payments (para. 79); and
(b) disbursements will first be made at a percentage of 38 percent for
the civil works (except tunneling) and then at a percentage of 13
percent, to be adjusted if need be, for the entire civil works
(including tunneling) when other donors' funds are expected to be
available and disbursed on a joint basis (paras. 64 and 69).
2.   Arrangements to complete the first phase of the Mont Belo-Brazzaville
rehabilitation program by December 31, 1982, shall be made by the
Government and ATC (para. 29).



- 33 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
3.   The Government and ATC will make a number of specific commitments to
strengthen ATC's operating and managerial efficiency. These measures
are enumerated in para. 37.
4.   The Govcenment will take steps required to conclude one forestry conces-
sion agreement by September 30, 1980, and to register satisfactory
progress by December 31, 1980, to conclude a second one (para. 42).
5.   Financial covenants aimed at strengthening and monitoring ATC's
financial situation have been agreed upon, including:
ti) ATC will not undertake investments exceeding US$2 million
equivalent without prior consultation with the Association
(para. 44);
(ii) a debt service ratio of 1.25 will be maintained (para. 49);
(iii) a working ratio of 68 percent will be maintained during 1981 and
of 65 percent thereafter (para. 49);
(iv) the expected rate of return on revalued assets will be at least
5 percent (para. 49);
(v) the Government will assist ATC in maintaining a positive working
canital and until June 30, 1982, supporting the debt service needs
as required (paras. 48 and 76).
6.   In order to minimize risk and consequences of any accidents, ATC will:
set up - by January 1, 1982 - and maintain a maintenance brigade capable
of operating earth moving equipment; submit quarterly inspection reports
and semi-annual geological investigative reports on critical slopes; and
maintain old railway line in operational condition for three years after
completion of the realignment (para. 59).
7.   A cost-based study of tariffs will be prepared and its implementation
will be initiated after consultation with the Association by mid-1981
(para. 48).






I                    -\ e
Lty j--9 - ,-, - 0 -o
a    '
iiO_\g X <= D  g>, o,D   
lVii2>~~ ~~r iP J             c X  -N    ,
r                       g 
-    0 ~ ~ ~ "' 0    
01~~~~~
-on
z 0~~~~~(-
0~~~~~~    



