FILE         COPY                        Document of                    ni AT O
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           REPORTS DESK
Report No.P-17 79-COB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR A
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
March 9, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit       =       CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             =       CFAF 225
CFAF 1imillion      -       US$4,444



FOR OFFICIAL USE 0LY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC) with the gua-
rantee of the People's Republic of the Congo, for the equivalent of
US$38 million to help finance a Second Railway Project. The loan would have
a term of 25 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 per-
cent per annum. The European Economic Community, the African Development
Bank (ADB) ,the French and Canadian aid agencies, the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA), the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development (KDF),
the Saudi Fund for DeveLopment (SFD), the Compagnie Francaise de Credit pour
l'Exportation (COFACE), and the Compagnie Miniere de l'Ogooue (COMILOG) would
participate in the financing of the project with grants and loans amounting
to about US$155 million. Annex III contains the financing plan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "People's Republic of the Congo - Economic
Memorandum" will be distributed shortly to the Executive Directors. The
following paragraphs reilect the findings and discussions with the Government
of special missions which visited the country in April/May 1974, March and
October 1975, and FebruaLry 1976. Annex I contains country data.
Structure and Resources
2
3.        With an area cf 342,000 km , about the size of Italy, the Congo
has a relatively small population of 1.3 million spread unevenly over its
territory. According to the 1974 census,about 38 percent of the inhabitants
live in urban areas with heavy concentration in the two major towns,
Brazzaville the capital (300,000), and Pointe Noire the main port on the
Atlantic (142,000), and in smaller centers all located close to the railroad
in the Southwest. Crop production contributes only 10-12 percent of GDP,
although agriculture is the mainstay of about half the population.
4.        Until recently, the Congo's economy was mainly influenced by its
historic importance as a seat of public administration, by its location be-
tween the Atlantic Ocean and the landlocked interior of the continent, and by
the size of its forestry reserves. The fact that Brazzaville used to be the
capital of former French Equatorial Africa encouraged development of Congo's
relatively literate population, but imposed a burden on limited public
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



resources. The geographic location of the country made it a regional center
of commerce and transportation services for Chad, C.A.R., Cameroon and Gabon.
The Congo has extensive forests, which spurred development of the timber indus-
try. The country has some mineral resources and also has limited fertile land
mainly in the North and in the Niari Valley. A number of public and private
manufacturing enterprises were started in the 1960s, through direct public in-
vestment and indirect incentive policies. All these various characteristics
of the Congolese economy have been reflected in the high shares of GDP attribu-
table to transport, trade and communications, public administration and industry.
5.        A new and major feature of the Congolese economy was the start of
crude oil production from offshore reserves. These reserves, the full size of
which is still not known, are being developed through direct foreign investments,
particularly French and Italian oil companies, since tne early 1970s. Produc-
tion started in December 1971 and reached a peak of 2.4 million tons in 1974,
representing a gross value of about $170 million. By contrast, the gross
value of all other merchandise exports was about $105 million in 1974.
6.        The People's Republic of the Congo is a socialist state, in which,
in fact, public and private activities exist side by side. Between 1969 and
1973 the Government took over a number of private enterprises including oil
distribution and insurance companies. Progress has been made in the settle-
ment of disputes that arose from these nationalizations,and the 1974 and 1975
budgets included appropriations for this purpose. Present policies aim at state
participation in new investments of foreign private enterprises. State parti-
cipation in the equity of oil production is at present 20 percent, with an
agreed provision for increasing this share at higher levels of output.
7.        The Congo belongs to the Franc zone, shares a Central Bank (BEAC)
with Gabon, Cameroon, Chad, and the Central African Republic and is a member
of a customs and economic union (UDEAC) 1/. A fixed rate of 50 CFAF to the
French Franc is maintained,and the French Treasury guarantees fully unlimited
conversion of the CFA Franc into the French Franc through an "operation account".
Credit creation by the Central Bank is strictly governed by rules established
by member countries and France.
Performance through 1973
8.         Official national accounts data are available for the years 1967
and 1970 only. They show that during this period overall economic growth was
about 8.1 percent per year in current prices and some 4 percent per year in
real terms. Population growth is estimated at 2.2 percent p.a., so that
1/   UDEAC has the same members as BEAC,except that Chad left UDEAC in 1969.



- 3 -
per capita income increased only modestly. Later data on physical output
(timber, sugar, potash, cement, etc.) suggest a continuation of these trends
through 1972. Between 1972-74, mainly owing to the initiation of offshore
oil production, real growth was estimated to be about 10 percent p.a. In
1974, GNP per capita was $385 at average 1972-74 prices and exchange rates.
9.        Prior to the end of 1973   when oil production became significant,
Congo's financial resources had always been pressed to the limit, as current
expenditure to achieve the Government's social aims absorbed most of current
revenues.  As a result, the bulk of development expenditures was financed with
foreign aid. The burgeoning system of state enterprises--many of which have
a low productivity--also imposed substantial claims in the form of foregone
tax revenues or transfers from the Government to finance capital expansions
as well as current operatLons. However, there was little scope for raising
government revenues above their average level of 20 percent of GDP. Total
expenditure rose faster than revenue, and overall deficits entailed the use
of Central Bank credit and prolonged delays in the settlement of accounts
payable to suppliers. As the prospects for oil brightened, foreign borrowing
expanded; some public enterprises went directly to foreign 8upplieg8, while
the Central Government borrowed abroad to launch an ambitious program of
public investment in economic and social infrastructure.
Recent Developments and Short-Term Outlook
10.       The past two years have seen a substantial increase in the financial
resources available to the Congolese Government,reflecting the full impact of
the rise in oil prices as well as a renegotiation of tax agreements with oil-
producing companies.
11.       In 1974, total government revenues jumped by over 80 percent to a
level of about $177 million. Annual merchandise exports rose from $100-120
million to $250-300 millicn. Resource mobilization and allocation were
generally satisfactory. Ihe Government reduced outstanding accounts payable,
reconstituted the financial position of several public enterprises, and made
adequate provision for debt service. Government current expenditures increased
somewhat less than revenues. Priority was given to development-oriented cur-
rent expenditures and completion of ongoing projects in productive sectors and
in education. Current budget savings covered only a small proportion of higher
capital spending which was essentially financed by additional domestic and
foreign borrowing. Although government policy resulted in a substantial ex-
pansion of demand throughout the economy, the balance of payments improved
overall,and net foreign exchange reserves increased by $21 million to the
equivalent of about 1-1/2 months of imports.
12.       The current and capital budgets for 1975 were based on expecta-
tions of even higher oil revenues. Instead, oil production fell by 25%
because of geological difficulties. Forecasts of growth in crude oil
output had to be revised downward at a time when European demand for timber,
Congo's second export, was slackening. The Government responded by cutting
back investment, but not enough to maintain financial equilibrium. By the



- 4 -
end of the year,an overall budget deficit of some $70 million had to be
financed by Central Bank credit to the maximum level permitted by the BEAC
rules ($35 million), an exceptional loan from Gabon, and some increase in
payment arrears. Excess demand was reflected in increased imports, and
despite a rise in capital inflows,foreign exchange reserves were drawn down
to a level representing less than two weeks of imports. Finally,service
obligations on Government borrowing which had been negotiated in anticipa-
tion of high future revenue growth,had mounted.
13.       Crude oil production and export have altered the structure of the
Congolese economy, but further real growth in this sector remains somewhat
uncertain. Technical difficulties are likely to prevent an expansion of
output from existing wells during 1976, and delays in obtaining offshore
rigs and drilling equipment will not allow commercial exploitation of the
second field before mid-1977. In these circumstances, it is reasonable to
expect that oil production in 1976 and 1977 will not exceed the almost
2 million tons produced in 1975.
14.       At the end of 1975, the authorities recognized the seriousness of
the situation,and the President appointed a new Government with a clear man-
date to redress the economic and financial situation. The Government undertook
an austerity program to generate resources for necessary current expenditures,
meet debt obligations, and permit Government's participation in financing
priority investments. The program includes a reduction of public investment,
action to accelerate tax collection, limit central government employment and
salaries, freeze personnel expenditures and eliminate fringe benefits in defi-
cit enterprises of the public sector, and earmark resources to the recently
established "Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement", an agency in charge of public
debt management. Details were discussed with a Bank mission in February 1976
in Brazzaville. The mission concluded that the measures are well conceived,
and should contribute substantially to relieving the financial pressures expe-
rienced in the past year.
Longer Term Prospects
15.       The future growth of the Congolese economy will be determined by
four key factors: (a) the rate of crude oil development and production; (b)
the rapidity with which international demand for the country's raw materials
--particularly timber--will pick up; (c) the relaxation of the transportation
constraint through realignment of the railway, a project which alone will
have a major impact on production and export of timber; and (d) the effecti-
veness of government policies in mobilizing domestic and foreign financial
resources and allocating them to development. Compared to other countries,
Congo is a high-cost oil producer. Discoveries made between 1973 and 1975
are no longer considered commercially exploitable,and annual output from one
new field going into production at the end of 1977 is not likely to exceed
2.5 million tons. Since output from the wells currently in production is
about 1.8 million tons and is expected to decline, production in excess of
3 million tons per year in the 1980s will depend on new discoveries. At pro-
jected world prices,the production which can reasonably be expected still
represents net revenues to the economy of some $200 million per year. The



- 5 -
longer term outlook for tropical timber is favorable; Congo should have no
difficulty marketing all it can export at profitable prices. Failure to
provide adequate transport facilities, however, would impose on the economy
a severe penalty in terms of foregone real growth by the mid-1980s, on the
order of 1.5 percent per year, and annual foreign exchange earnings approach-
ing $400 million. Domestic and foreign resource mobilization for investment
will depend on the success of the Government's stringent measures to contain
public consumption and restore public savings, and to maintain the confidence
of foreign sources of funds. In this respect, an important objective in the
longer term is to improve the productivity of public enterprises, a task the
Government is now considering of the highest priority.
16.       To finance the main part of its public investment program, Congo
has always relied on foreign financing, and it has indeed succeeded in
attracting huge amounts cf capital from a growing number of donors. Disburse-
ments of official development aid, including grants and loans, mainly from
France, European Development Fund (FED), and Centrally Planned Economies,
averaged about $23 million (net) during 1970-73. In 1974, disbursements on
existing commitments, including borrowing from private sources for financing
an oil refinery, have increased to $56    million which is an increase of 75
percent over the previous year. In 1975, the level of disbursements has
reached about   $88 million.   New loan commitments of about $175 million
(including those for ATC) are expected in 1976 from FED, ADB, France, CIDA,
the Bank Group, and other donors, and disbursements from these sources should
already begin by the end of the year.
External Debt
17.       Congo's external public debt increased by more than 30 percent per
year between 1970 and 1974. At the end of 1974, outstanding public and public-
ly guaranteed debt amounted to $486.6 million, of which $243 million undis-
bursed. More than half of the debt outstanding consisted of obligations to
governments, of which 60 percent was owed to Centrally Planned Economies. The
remaining debt was in the form of commercial credits ($144.4 million) and loans
from international organizations ($53.5 million). World Bank Group loans and
credits represent about 10 percent of debt outstanding and disbursed.
18.       During 1975, total outstanding debt including undisbursed was
actually reduced, as the autonomous agency in charge of public debt manage-
ment liquidated some arrears and the Government decided not to draw from
loans obtained under prior agreements totaling $87.0 million. Thus, by the
end of 1975, total debt including undisbursed declined to $433 million, of
which an estimated $302 million disbursed.
19.       The next two years, however, will see a substantial rise in debt
service obligations as loans on commercial terms begin to fall due. Debt
service as a share of expcrts of goods and non-factor services will average
about 15 percent in 1976 and 1977, declining to 10-11 percent in 1978-80. As
a percentage of government revenues,debt service will peak at 26 percent in
1977 and average 21 percent through 1980. These are high ratios, but they
can be accommodated even if current public expenditure is maintained in 1976



- 6 -
and 1977 at the very high level experienced in the past year. The measures
now being initiated by the Government appear to be sufficient to ensure
adequate funds for debt service without unduly limiting the provision of
public goods and services in the immediate future. Thereafter,the burden
resulting from existing debt commitments will decline,and the Government's
capacity to generate public savings as well as to service new foreign borrow-
ing should be sufficient to permit satisfactory levels of investment and
growth. By 1980, the Bank Group's share in disbursed external debt and debt
service, including the proposed loan, will be about 14 percent and 11 per-
cent respectively. Congo, a member of the Central African Monetary Union,
is creditworthy for World Bank financing in view of the long term growth and
export prospects of the economy, and the Government's determination to follow
the financial policies necessary to maintain the country's debt servicing
capacity.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       The Bank has directed its assistance to four key sectors:    the
transport sector to help rehabilitate existing infrastructure and strengthen
the role of the Congo as a regional transport center; mining and livestock as
a means of diversifying the economy,and. education as a basis for developing
human resources and producing skills corresponding to the country's development
opportunities. Past Bank/IDA lending to the Congo amounts to US$51.5 million
and covers seven operations. A Bank loan for a mining project accounts for 60
percent of Bank Group lending. Four transportation projects represent the
largest share of IDA commitments (58 percent) followed by livestock (26 per-
cent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as
of January 31, 1976, and includes notes on the progress of ongoing projects.
This statement excludes a 1959 Bank loan of US$35 million to COMILOG, a mining
company owned by French and US interests. This loan helped finance a manganese
mine, a cableway and a rail link to the Chemin de Fer Congo - Ocean(CFCO)and
manganese port facilities in Pointe Noire. W;hile the mine and the cableway are
located in Southern Gabon, the railway and the port are on Congolese territory.
The project is operating successfully,and COMILOG prepaid the Bank loan in
1972.
21.       A Three-Year Development Program was published in early 1975.    In
view of Congo's present tight fiscal situation, the authorities are in the
process of reviewing this Program. Pending this revision and subsequent dis-
cussions with the authorities on Congo's future performance and external as-
sistance requirements, the Bank is concentrating on two follow-up projects:
a Second Education Project involving teacher training, forestry training,and
technical education planning,and a second-phase Highway Maintenance Project.



- 7 -
PAKr III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Infrastructure
22.       Approximately 90% of the Congo's traffic is carried by the ATC
system which consists of: (a) the river ports (including Brazzaville) and
services on the Congo-Oubangui-Sangha rivers; (b) a railway
(CFCO) from Brazzaville t:o Pointe Noire (510 km); and (c) the
Atlantic Ocean port of Pointe Noire. The ATC, a national transport agency
with considerable financial autonomy, operates and maintains this system as
the major part of the so-called Transequatorial Route, an almost 3,000 km
long road, river and rail network linking South-eastern Cameroon and the
land-locked countries of Central African Republic and Chad (one of the 25
least developed countries) with the Atlantic Ocean at Pointe Noire. The
southern region of neighboring Gabon is also served by the ATC system by
virtue of the Loubomo(ex-Dolisie)Gabon road (about 250 km),and a 285 km
railway owned and operated by COMILOG between M'Binda and Mont Bello on the
CFCO for the transport of manganese ore.
23.       The ATC system, therefore, not only forms the backbone of the
Congo's own transport infrastructure,but also provides important transit
services for neighboring countries under a series of bilateral agreements.
As a result, almost 65% oE total freight movements on the CFCO railway in
1975 consisted of transit traffic.   While the expansion of the Congo's own
traffic - mostly timber from northern Congo - will lead to a decline in the
importance of these transit movements over the long term, transit traffic
will be a very important part of all movements for many years to come.
24.       Congo also has a large road network totalling about 10,800 km, but
only about 3,000 km (including 300 km of paved roads) provide all-weather
service. The major road axis connects Brazzaville and Ouesso in the north
(about 900 km); the rest of the system consists of secondary and forestry
roads located mostly in the area west of Brazzaville, which contains about
two-thirds of the population and the important centers of economic activity.
Only a small proportion of freight traffic is carried by road, and about 70
percent of this is timber traffic in the south. Administration, maintenance,
and improvement of the highway network is the responsibility of the Regie
Nationale des Transports et des Travaux Publics (RNTP) which operates under
the direct supervision of the Minister of Public Works and Transport (MPWT).
RNTP is being reorganized and strengthened under the Highway Maintenance
Project (Credit 274-COB of 1971).
25.       There are eight airports and about thirty minor airfields.    Only
three (Brazzaville, Pointe Noire and Loubomo) have paved runways, and only
Brazzaville is equipped to handle long-range jet aircraft serving interna-
tional traffic. A Government-owned company, Lina Congo, provides scheduled
domestic services with a small fleet of medium-range aircraft.



- 8-
Transport Policy and Planning
26.       The Ministry of Public Works and Transport is responsible for
devising and enforcing transport policy. Transport coordination and planning
outside the ATC has not been an issue in the past because of the dominant role
of the ATC system. However, the Government's long-term plans to develop the
Pointe Noire-Brazzaville-Ouesso road axis which runs in part parallel to the
ATC system now makes the planning and coordination of transport services an
important issue. A geographically large country such as the Congo with a con-
siderable resource potential requires a transport system which is sufficiently
versatile to permit the development of this potential,and long range planning
geared to developing a network that can adequately meet this need. However,
there remain substantial questions of matching transport investments to actual
requirements in the axis, and of establishing the pricing policies necessary
to ensure a proper role for road and rail services. The administrative
machinery required to execute these tasks will be provided by the planning
unit recently established in MPWT in accordance with the Government's instruc-
tions during 1975 that separate units be set up in all ministries. MPWT has
already designated a Director for its planning unit for which terms of reference
are being discussed with the Bank. The main tasks of the unit would be to:
(a) analyze the costs and benefits of proposed investments in the various
modes to achieve an optimum distribution and timing of these investments; (b)
review and keep up-to-date the transport pricing policy; and (c) ensure that
investment proposals for transport take into consideration the requirements of
other sectors of the economy. The Government has agreed to consult with the
Bank prior to any major transport investment outside this program (Section
3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement). It had already agreed under the previous
Railway Project (Section 4.02 of the Credit Agreement - Credit 297-COB of
1972) not to undertake major road construction between Pointe Noire and
Brazzaville without a feasibility study and prior consultation with the Bank
Group.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Purpose
27.       The present ATC system was developed during the 1920's and 1930's
to cover the relatively simple transport requirements of the slowly emerging
economies of Central Africa. Over the last two decades, the pace of develop-
ment has quickened with a consequent growth in traffic demand. This demand
has heavily taxed ATC's capacity and brought about a serious deterioration
of some parts of its physical assets.
28.       The proposed project, covering ATC's 1974-78 Investment Plan, is
designed to ensure the continued functioning of the ATC system, render
operations more efficient,and provide for more capacity to meet the traffic
needs of the Congo and the Region. A large part of the investment plan is
allocated to the CFCO railway where immediate action is needed to avoid major



- 9 -
line interruptions threatened by failure of the track and structures over the
mountainous Holle-Loubomo (ex-Dolisie) section.
29.       Consultants recommended in a UNDP-financed feasibility study of 1971/
72 that about 110 km of the CFCO line between Holle and Loubomo be realigned,
rejecting as impractical and uneconomic the alternative of staged improvement
of the existing alignment. The Bank Group subsequently financed detailed en-
gineering of the proposed realignment under its First Railway Project (Credit
297-COB).
30.       The project was appraised in November 1974.    Report No. 745a-COB
dated March 9, 1976 (Appraisal of a Second Railway Project - People's Republic
of the Congo) is being ci:rculated separately to the Executive Directors, and
a loan and project summary is found in Annex III of this report. Loan nego-
tiations were held in Washington in June 1975, and in Pointe Noire in July
1975 with a Congolese delegation headed by Mr. Matingou, the then Minister of
Public Works and Transport:. A final meeting of all donors was held in Brussels
in December 1975 when a full financing plan was established.
Project Description, Cost and Financing
31.       The project consists of ATC's 1974-78 Investment Plan and is expected
to cost about US$233.8 mi]lion equivalent (net of taxes) including physical and
price contingencies; the foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US$147.5 million. The main components and their total cost are as follows:
(a) ATC Headquarters: provision of technical assistance and
improvement of training facilities and program (US$5.5
million);
(b) Pointe Noire Port: provision of additional stacking areas
for timber-handling, construction of new manganese and general
cargo berths, and dredging (US$12.8 million);
(c) River Services: procurement of mechanical handling equipment
and additional floating craft, expansion of Brazzaville work-
shops, and deepening of river channels (US$21.1 million);
(d) CFCO railway: procurement and renewal of locomotives and
rolling stock, track renewal, installation of signalling
systems, and expansion of workshops (US$45.6 million); and
upgrading of 18 km and realignment of 88 km of the Holle-
Loubomo section (US$148.8 million).
32.       The largest item in the Investment Plan is the CFCO realignment
costing almost US$149 million. The costs of the proposed works are covered
under financing arrangements and in amounts converted into US dollars equi-
valent at present exchange rates as follows: (i) by joint financing from
the Bank (US$31.0 million), FED (US$17.3 million), FAC (US$11.1 million),
CCCE (US$3.3 million), and the Government (US$9.1 million); and (ii) by paral-
lel financing from KDF/SFD,/BADEA (US$43.6 million), ADB (US$12.4 million),



- 10 -
CIDA (US$12.7 million), and CCCE (US$1.1 million), together with contribu-
tions from the Government (US$8.7 million) 1/. Disbursements under the
joint financing arrangement will be proportional to the contributions of
individual co-donors. The co-donors have reached agreement on terms assuring
financing of the realignment. Finalization of these agreements or assurances
that they will be forthcoming is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
33.       Individual items in the investment plan apart from the realignment
costing US$85 million have been or will be financed by CCCE/COFACE (US$33.4
million), ATC (US$21.6 million), ADB (US$9.9 million), FED/EIB (US$4.7 mil-
lion), FAC (US$4.6 million), Bank (US$3.8 million), Congo Banks (US$2.7 mil-
lion), COMILOG (US$0.8 million) and the Government (US$3.5 million) 1/.
Although much of the financing of these items has been secured, a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan is the receipt of assurances satisfac-
tory to the Bank from donors whose contributions have been agreed upon in
principle but not yet secured (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
34.       The proposed Bank loan of US$38.0 million will provide financing of
US$31.0 million towards the CFCO realignment, US$3.8 million for ATC training
facilities and technical assistance, US$0.2 million for retroactive financing
of railcar bogies and radio equipment for the CFCO, and US$3.0 million for
interest during construction on the proposed loan to help ease ATC's debt
service burden.
The Borrower
35.       ATC is the second largest enterprise in the Congo with a permanent
staff of over 6,000. Administration of ATC is by a Board with the Minister
of Public Works and Transport as Chairman,and 13 members consisting of other
ministers and representatives from the staff and the ruling political party.
ATC has a General Manager and an Assistant General Manager who are appointed
by the Council of State on the recommendation of the Board.
36.       ATC enjoys sufficient autonomy in its operations to permit ef-
fective management. Nevertheless, the overall operating performance of ATC,
and particularly of the CFCO, has been declining since 1971. The quality of
top management is generally satisfactory,although it relies heavily on expa-
triate technical assistance. There is a need, however, to increase the par-
ticipation of local staff in decision-making,and to provide training in view
of progressing Africanization. Although ATC provides good basic training
for apprentices and recruits, some reorganization and expansion of facili-
ties is needed to make it more effective. The proposed project provides
for these additional facilities, and for about 40 man-years of technical
assistance for on-the-job training and the training of instructors.
1/   ADB - African Development Bank; BADEA - Arab Bank for Economic Develop-
ment in Africa; CCCE - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique; CIDA -
Canadian International Development Agency; COFACE - Compagnie Francaise
de Credit pour 1 Exportation; EIB - European Investment Bank; FAC -
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation; FED - Fonds Europeen de Developpement;
KDF - Kuwait Fund for Economic Development; SFD - Saudi Fund for
Development.



- 11 -
37.       ATC will be responsible for execution of the project.    Supervision
of the realignment will be the responsibility of TECSULT (Canada), who car-
ried out the detailed engineering. The Bank will have the principal role in
overall project supervision.
Procurement, Disbursements,and Implications of Bilateral Financing
38.       The major item in the project is the CFCO realignment.    The realign-
ment works have been divided into several components to meet the wishes of some
donors for parallel financing. Bids for the main civil works contract of the
realignment (representing about 80% of the total estimated cost of the re-
alignment) were evaluated in mid-1975 following international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A consortium of French, German
and Italian contractors has been designated as the lowest evaluated bidder,
but the final award of the contract will not be made before approval of the
proposed Loan by the Bank's Board. About 56% of this contract representing
the earthworks and structures will be financed and disbursed jointly by the
Bank (43%), FED (24%), FAC (15%), CCCE (5%) and the Government (13%); about
35% covering the tunnel works will be financed by a group comprising KDF,
SFD and BADEA; and about 9% for track laying by ADB and the Government. The
remaining items in the realignment outside the civil works contract will be
subject to parallel financing by ADB, CIDA and CCCE with contributions from
the Government,with the exception of rail fastenings to be jointly financed
and disbursed by the Bank, FED, FAC, CCCE and the Government. The rail
fastenings will be procured by international competitive bidding. The items
in the realignment financed by ADB will also be subject to international
competitive bidding. The items being undertaken with tied bilateral aid from
CIDA are not expected to cost significantly more than if procured interna-
tionally. Furthermore, C[DA aid is provided on very generous financing
terms. The items to be procured with the small amount of tied aid by CCCE
will be obtained from previously engaged French suppliers for reasons of
standardization.
39.       The financing of items in the project other than the realignment
will be provided Individually by CCCE/COFACE, ATC, ADB, FAC, FED/EIB, Bank,
Government, Congo banks and COMILOG,        The Bank's contribution of US$3.8
millionfor these items will be applied to financing the technical assistance
and training requirements of ATC. Building extensions for the training
schools estimated at aboul: US$400,000 equivalent will be let by ATC as local
contracts following local bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Imported
materials required and equipment to be installed will be obtained by interna-
tional competitive bidding, except for small items purchased under local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank. The consultants providing technical as-
sistance will be selected on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. All
other items will be procured in accordance with the individual procedures of
the donors involved.
40.       Disbursements from the Loan account for the foreign expenditures
incurred for the railcar bogies and radio equipment, ordered under procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, will be made retroactively and directly to the ATC.



- 12 -
Disbursements from the Loan account for interest and other charges during
project implementation will be credited to the Loan account. Disbursements
for the main civil works contract, training and technical assistance will
follow normal Bank procedures.
ATC's Financial Situation
41.       ATC's poor operating performance,due mainly to reduced staff pro-
ductivity,physical capacity constraints and the recent economic slowdown,
and inadequate tariff policies over 1970-74 resulted in a deteriorating
financial position, and by the end of the period, short-term liabilities
exceeded current assets. A 50 percent tariff increase was implemented in
three stages between February 1973 and November 1974, but despite this, ATC's
financial performance in 1975 worsened because of reduced demand for timber
traffic and further increases in operating costs.
42.       To redress the financial situation of ATC, it was agreed in early
1976 that ATC will take the necessary measures, including tariff increases
and a strict control of ATC's operating costs, to have ATC achieve a minimum
rate of return on fixed assets in use of 6 percent in 1977, and 8 percent
annually from 1978 through 1980 (Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement). Also
an understanding has been reached with the Government that it will support
ATC's finances by waiving taxes (primarily sales taxes collected by the
Railway) amounting to about CFAF 4 billion over the project execution period,
Further, assurances have been received from Government and ATC that the Bank
will be allowed to comment on ATC's draft annual budgets before they are
submitted to ATC's Board and the Government for approval so that any
remedial measure can be undertaken promptly in consultation with the
Bank.
43.       ATC's financial position is expected to show steady improvement over
the next few years provided that operational targets are achieved, traffic
projections materialize, and cost-based tariffs applied. Thus, ATC has agreed
to take all measures required to achieve by 1978 a higher annual tonnage of
cargo per berth for ports; a higher annual tonnage of cargo per barge and
faster rotation of convoys for river transport; and improved locomotive avail-
ability, freight car turnaround times and traffic output per employee for CFCO
(Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement). The traffic projections assume that the
present slump in the world timber market will end in 1977,with timber traffic
which is expected to show the highest growth rate, fully recovering in 1978
and thereafter growing on average by about 13 percent p.a. until 1985. An
annual rate of return on average net fixed assets in use of 8 percent during
1980-86, would enable ATC to (i) meet set levels of inventories,accounts receivable
and payable, and debt service (Section 5.09 of the Loan Agreement);(ii) finance
its renewals and planned investments without further external assistance; (iii)
service its debt; and (iv) build up uncommitted cash to a total of about US$22
million equivalent. A sensitivity analysis was conducted under the assumptions
that gross operating revenues decrease by 20 percent, working expenses increase
by 10 percent, and the cost of capital investments, excluding the CFCO realignment,



- 13 -
increase by 10 percent. This analysis showed that ATC's financial position
could be expected to remain acceptable if tariffs are raised roughly in line
with projected inflation 'Levels, and if additional borrowing is secured up to
about US$35 million equivalent in 1976-79 and about 40 percent of planned
investments for 1980-86.
Economic Justification
44.       As none of the iieighboring countries using Congo's transport system
can envisage an important shift in the direction of their traffic in the
medium run, ATC's transport problems have to be also considered in the light
of their international implications, rather than as a purely national matter.
In order to maintain and strengthen this role of Congo as a major transit
country, and in order to permit at the same time larger timber exports from
Congo itself, the proposect project together with ATC's long-range investment
program has been designed to improve operations and lay the groundwork for
capacity expansion.
45.       ATC's future transport role is thus expected to remain that of a
regional carrier for the Congo, CAR, southeastern Cameroon, southern Gabon,
and to a lesser extent, southern Chad. The most important element in the
regional traffic flow, in terms of value and economic impact, will be timber
originating in northern Congo, southeastern Cameroon and southwestern CAR.
Although it is assumed that the present world market slump in timber will
continue through 1976 before recovering in 1977, Pointe Noire port is expected
to handle about 1.0 million tons in 1978 and 2.0 million tons in 1985, mainly
as a result of opening up the forest reserves in northern Congo. Gabonese
manganese will continue tc provide substantial traffic volumes, at least into
the early 1980's. Traffic in manganese ore is expected to increase to 2.6
million tons in 1981. The remaining important traffic flows will consist of
general cargo, bulk oil,and CFCO passenger traffic.
46.       The economic analysis of the ATC investment program focussed on
the CFCO realignment which is the most critical and costly element of the
project. The analysis essentially compared the proposed realignment solution
with the feasible alternatives of : (a) minimally restoring the existing
line to ensure continuation of service (the practical "do nothing" solution);
(b) supplementing and eventually replacing the existing line with a road;
and (c) making major improvements on the existing line.    These comparisons
were made in various combinations and time sequences,and were further varied
by differing assumptions with respect to traffic volumes and priorities on
the one hand,and operating efficiency levels on the other. The measurable
benefits in each case related to savings in operating costs,and more im-
portantly, to the avoidance of traffic frustration--particularly timber
traffic-which would lead to loss of production and value. Comparison of
the proposed realignment solution with the most plausible alternative, namely,
rehabilitating the existing line, improving operating efficiency to the utmost,
and extending pr-iority to the high-value timber traffic to the maximum extent
possible, results in a minimum rate of return of 18% for the CFCO realignment
solution and a 23% return for the entire ATC investment plan. These returns
would apply to the entire region served by the ATC with about half accruing



- 14 -
to the Congo. The CFCO realignment solution showed an even higher rate of
return when compared with the other investment alternatives under the entire
range of operating and traffic assumptions.
Risks Inherent in the Project
47.       The financial viability of the ATC and the economic return of the
proposed project are dependent, to a material degree, on the development of
expected traffic volumes and the maintenance and improvement of ATC operating
efficiency standards. The economic analysis weighed every possible external
variable relating to traffic generation,and concluded that even if Gabon's
manganese traffic were to be diverted entirely by 1986, and Cameroon and CAR
timber traffic eliminated by 1985, the project would still yield an accept-
able rate of return if Congo timber materialized. The Congolese authorities
will take all necessary measures to ensure that concessions of operating
rights be granted in certain forestry areas in agreement with the Bank,and
to promptly implement its policy relating to the inventory and exploitation
of other areas. The project has a substantial technical assistance and
training input designed specifically to improve ATC's efficiency and thus help
ensure the achievenentof operating targets and financial stability.
48.       While, in spite of these precautions, a considerable element of
risk remains that financial and economic goals will not be completely at-
tained, a far greater risk exists that without the project, the ATC will not
be able to handle the traffic offered, with the result that Congo's and the
region's economic development will be slowed and the country will forego
substantial foreign exchange earnings.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Loan Agreement between Agence Transcongolaise desCommunica-
tions and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the People's Republic
of the Congo and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan,are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
50.       The additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
are that (i) co-financing agreements for the CFCO realignment, except the second
ADB and the second FED (4th replenishment) loans, have been signed and condi-
tions precedent to their disbursement have been fulfilled; (ii) assurances
satisfactory to the Bank have been received on the second ADB and the second
FED loans and on all financing to be approved later than December 1, 1975.
(Section 7.01 and Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement). As a condition for dis-
bursements from the Loan Account in 1977 and 1978, ATC should furnish evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that it has secured the necessary financing for its
planned investments in each of those years (Schedule 1, paragraph 2c of the
Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
March 9, 1976






A    I
PageIof 4 5w
TAS.e SA
LAND AREA (THMOU K2                 CONGO PEOPLES REP - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TOTAL       342.0                            CONGO PEOPLES REP OF               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TAL   342.0                                     MOST RECENT
ARABLE         .                      1960       19T0   ESTIMATE         CAMEROON *    GABON   *      VENFUFLA O
GNP PER CPITA tUSSI                       80.0      300.0      340.0             210.0       910.0     1560.0
_   ___ _ ____ ___16              .0       00.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION tMID-YR. MILLIONt             0.9        1.1        1.2               5.8         0.5       10.3
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         Z.0        3.0        4.0              12.0         2.0       11.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND                                                    88.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         47.0       44.0       45.0               43.0       33.J       40.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         2T.0       21.0       21.0               23.0       25.0        8.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATF I/THOU)       180.0          ..          .                 .          ..       49 0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH tYRSI        3T.0       41.0        4.                41.0       39.J       64.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..        2.6        2.9                2.7        Z.0        2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (11
TOTAL                                  1.9        2.6        2.1                2.0        1.0        3.5
URBAN                                   ..        3.4         ..                6.0        8.0        4.5
URBAN POPULATION tY OF TOTALI           14.0       38.0         *-               ?0.0       32.0       76.0
AGE STRUCTURE tPERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.0 /a     42.0       42.0               43.0       34.0       47.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                        54.0 7&    53.0        3.0               S4.0       61 0       50.5
65 YEARS ANO OVER                      4.0 E      5.0        5.0                3.0        5.0        2.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9 /a      0.9        0.9                0.9        0.6        1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3        1.3        1.0                1.1        0.7        1.6 la
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..         ..         ..
USERS (S OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOP FORCE lTHOUSAND)           300.0      520.0 /a   570°0             2830.0      274.0 A   3'00.U /b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (tI          52.0       56.0 o       ..               32.0       5d .       22.0
UNEMPLOYED tY OF LABnR FORCE)             ..         ..       16.0 b                          .         8.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Y OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD0 BY-
HIGHEST  SX OF POPULATION               ..         ..         ..                 ..       45.3
HIGHEST 207 OF POPULATION               ..         ..         ..                 ..       67.5
LOWSET 20T OF PnPULATION                ..         ..         ..                ..         3.2
LOWEST 408 OF POPULATION                ..         ..         ..                 ..        8.S
OISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 10t OF OwNERS              ..         ..         ..
Y OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS           ..          ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN,            13000.0 k    240.0         ..            Z5960.0     5100.0     1100.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1130.0       6t0.0         ..             2470.0      600.0      530.0
POPULATION PFR HOSPITAL BFO            180.0    d 170.0         ..              480.0      100.0      320.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES IY OF REQUIREMENTS)         97.0        97.0      102.0               96.0       94.0       100.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)              40.0        40.0       44.0               59.0      S.0        62.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL ANO PULSF           ..        23.0         ..               23.0/a     30.0       32.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..          ..         ..                 ..         ..         5.O
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      10L.0       163.0         *-               70.0      166.0        82.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      5.0        21.0         ..                9.0       16.0       33.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANY SECOND LEVEL)             13.0        13.0       13.0              °14.0       13.0       11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(1 OF SECONDARY)                     28.0        10.0       12.0 /             22.0       IS.0       33.0
AOULT LITERACY RATE tY)                  .-        50.0 /d      ..                 ..       30.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)              2.7          ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      94.0 I        ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
t7 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  4.0          ..         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY tY)                     ..          ..         ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)          13.0       69.0       713.0              36.0      124.0       164.0
PASSENGER CARS IPER THOU POP)             ..         ..          .6 6.                      11.0        5S.0
ELECTRICITY IWN /YR PER CAP)            30.0       61.0      104.0              200.0      194.0     1215.0
NEWSPRINT CKG/YR PER CAP)                1.0         ..         ..                 ..         ..         7.6
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



____                                                         Page 2 of 4 Pas"5
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-1961, for 197    to i968-i97o, and for Most Recent Eatinste to IM7-1973.
*Cameroon~ ecoomic etructinre LBto moewbat amler1 to that of Congo and it in a ehbw of tIe Franc Ares. These factors cake it a r"levant refOerec
country although it ia in the per capita income group balom Congo.
**Although Gebon' a per capita CKP io muich higher than Congo, it has been selected because, like Congo, it is a laO~g country with low PoPulation
density, haa similar natural resources, is alao a mazer of the Franc Area, and produce oil at a rate which Congo in espected to attain by 1980.
Rapid urbanisattion could be a festure of both countries.
aea, Venezuela has boon 001e0ted as an objective country slime oil prodwction is the motive power in the wcsm-ic development, of- both countries.
CONGO, PEOPLES REP..          1960        African population only;     a~ 19621     /c  Including 4asoBtwtantursee, midwives aid aasistant midwivwc;
Including rural hospit1as and mdical centers        LW   otal, urban and rural, excluding cities of Brownsville
and Pointo-11ore;   If   Dain f or city of Fointa-Notre  ly
1970    /a  Total population in age 15-59;     lb  1967;    /c  1964.66;     /d  1966.
MOST REO§T ESTDtMAE        La  Total population ag  15-59;    /b  Naleo, Braseavife only;      /c Excluding teacher training.
CAJ4MI00                      1970    La  1964-66;     a   13 yearn for Eelt Camearoon.
GABON                         1970    La  Active population age 15-59;      b  Inoone recipient;    /c  1964-66.
VMEZUE1A                      1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and ovear to total labor ferce;    /b  Econmdcally active population.
R4 February 6, 1976
tWINT31Tl0S OF NOCIAL INDIATORS
land Area 1~~~~~~~~~ip~~jom) ~~~PoC                                   ltion per nuroig raon - Population divided by number of practicing
s'TTSi   rr4~ace ea.a cooprioing lwai area, and inlaikd waters.                   =maend f    le graauate nursese, 'trained0 or '-certified" nureen, and
Ara_bjc - Most recent estimate of lend ares used temporarily or permainently            auxiliary personnel with training or merimme.
for cultiveion   patures, markot end kitchen gardons or to lie fallo.               L                           - Population dvddb       mbro       optlbd
i~ii~I1iF~ii Iio   private general and specialized hospital and
gq   per ipi    -. (EF por capita estintals  at market prices, calcu-              rehabilitation ceitore; eaccludw nowing hboom end establiohmanta for
liWated  M       coversion Method as World Bank Atlas (1972-74; baaia).               custodial and preventive carem.
Percait     smols' of clie      %of requirements) - Computed from enegy
PI  lto     n  vital otatietice                                                         eqiaet of ne       odopie        avLailabl  In country per capita per day;
10    =     ~   y.milo)-A          of July first; if not available, average             available supplies oomprise dmestic production, impwrte lees exports,
oftoM-year es imes.                                                              and changes in stock; net supplies exclude anina1 feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used In fwod prmossing and looase in distribution; roquiremnts
Popuatio  desity- pr q9uire kon - Mid-year population per square kilo-             were estimated by FAO based on p1toiological needs for normal activity
Meer(0hc Mtar.)o -ttl aeand health considering environmental teoVeratuwe, body weights, age and
Ppltio   o cit   - per squar  hao o areable laid - Computed as above for             sex diatributlons of population, end allowing 10% for wacle at household
arele 1   ndonl.                                                                       level.
Per caie. supl     of_ rten     ras. pr da) - Protein content of per
Vital statistic.                                                                        capit  not auppy          opr   W; Me   supply of food to defined a
3;7&SU;K mto  er thousand - Annual live births par thousand of mid-                 above; requirements for all countries established ty USDA 8conamc
year population; usually rive-Iear aver""age  nding in 1960, 1970 end                 Research Service. provide for a minim.um llwonce of 60 gras. of total
1975 for developing countrics.                                                        protein per day, and 20 grams of aninl and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude deth at    Per thouand - Annual deaths per thousand of ,sid..year                 gram. should he animal protein; these standards are'lower than those of
poplain; usualy five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      75 gras of total protein and 23 gras., of animal protein a. en   aerage
for developing countries,                                                             for the world, proposed by PAD in the Third World Food Survoy.
In=fn.t:DP:4arate _Lthou) - Annual dcaths of infants under one year               Per captag arti      suplyfinanimal and pulse - Protein supply of food
ag     e     usand yLe Dirths.                                                       deivd    i   aiml an      ule   in gras. per day.
Lif exot        at b*irth    a) - Average nunber of year's of life remain-                  raint  (thou) a an 1-~ - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-1
1ing ati1ith;fu      Tfu  r -ya  averages ending in 1960, 1970 aid                     oi7 c6       larIoin mtnis age group; suggested as an indV.ctor of mal-
1975 for developing countries,                                                        nutrition.
29m?         -to      t  - Average nwiober of live daughters a woman mill
bt9hhr normal reprodixtive period if she experiences present age-              Education
specific ferti-lity rates; usually five-year, averages endirng in 1960,             Adused enrollmen     ratio -ui     ayschool - Enrollment of all ageo as
1970 and 1975 f or developing countries,                                              pecnag      fprmr     isho-ge population; includes children aged
Population growth rats W%   - total - Com~pound ann,ual growth rate. of mid-            6-U years but adjusted for different lengths of primery education;
year population for           196-O,l0-70, and 1960 to most recent yeamr.             for countries with universal edwcation, enrollment may exceed 100%
Population grovth rate (%) - urban - Compuated like growth rate of total                since 500*, pupils are below or above the officia  school age.
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compare-                AdjutedF enolet ratio - secondary school - Comuted as aboves secontd-
bility of data among countries.                                                       ayeutionrqire           at least four years of approved Primary instrwc-
,rban       tion&    of total) - Ratio of urban to tctal population; dif-               lion; prowidea general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
.r.n       one or urin areas may affoct comparability of data                     pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondemce courses are generally
among countries,                                                                      excluded.
Ag     tutu    ~    et   - Chilbren (0-114 yearn), workin-age (15-64; years),         Tersogf shoingprovided        (first andMscnd    evl) - Total years of
widretired (65 years and ovwr) as percentages of mid-year pouaio.sholn;                             tscodr      lee, vcatoa        ntutonmyh           atnl
AgpD~n5...ftio- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    or cenMletely excluded.
hoedf ge      throug                                                             Vocational norollms.nt CR of secondary) - Vocational insiuin       nld
Faompic fdependncartio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over                   technical, industrial or otner programs which operate indepeandently or
to helaborfrce      =age group of 15-61; ywear.                                      as departeants of secondary institutions.
Fa=,ily plarginc   ac,cetors 1(cujoative. thou) - Cumulative number of                Atlttjieacyrate., 1       - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
ac tr  fbith-control device   under auspices of national family         ~        iiag    oftotal adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family planning - users   CR of married women) - Percentages of married               1 
women of child-bearing age (15-in years) who use birth-control do-                  Verosr         o    aeie    - Average number of persons per room in occupied
viccs to all married women in isane age group.                                        iniitwitiorml 7vflinga in urban arseas; dwellings eclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
~~~~~~~~~~o                        -occupied conventional dwell-
Total labor force   tho gFad) - Economically active peraons, including                  ajIi~llrW           l   r5e" withouti       d  rotid       ie    ae
armed forces an       7 yea but excluding housewives, students, eta.;                 facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not compaabla.                                 Access to eloctrinit   ~% of all dwellings) - Conventioaml dwellings with
Labor fo,rce in   ticultore.I   -Agricultural labor force (in farming,'                 electricity In living quarters as percent of Wtoal dwelling   in urban
forestry, huning and fishig     as percentaLge of total labor force.*                 and rural areas.
M-pi~~~od         foce)f-Unemployd are usUally defined Sas per-                 Rural             muiwne  oneted to electricity M% - DGapmted as above for rural
mods    ar.    nd     illsgto take a job, out of a job on a given                     dvalWe1 onge ly.
day, remained out of a job, aLnd soeking work for a sfpecified minimus
period not exeding one week; may not be cossparable between coon-                   Consumto
tre  u  odfferent definitions of unmployed and source of data,                                 p               l   ye    frc~esfrrAnbod
e.g., employmant office statistics, samplea swveye cospulsory unme-                   cast  to ojeri pubidle       thousandL of population; excoludes unlicensed
ploymnent insurance,                                                                  receivers in countries and in years whe reaistratima of raLdio saets mms
in effect; data for recent years iW cot be comparableasince mast coun-
Inimas dstribution - PercentaLge of private imcam (both in cash and                     trioa abolished looaming.    -Psec         aeo    wa    oo     a     etn
kid  eeved by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                massonayarsIp=      thoupopp)-Peegrcas           oriemtrassain
40% of Population.                                                                            n W gt prveiociFicludo. ambulancee, hearses and military
Disribtio  oflad wvnership - Percentages of lAid owned bY weathiest              KlctIoi                  c  )r  - Asmixial consumption of industrial, comir-
10% andpoores.t1V, 010 of ladomer.                                                     c   ,      c m          s  alctricwby in kilowatt hours par capital gen-
erally based on producetion data, idthout alloinace fer losses in gride
Rea.t and Nutritio                                                                      but allowing for iqorte and expets of lalctriciby.
P   t one        -ican - Populadion divided by numer of Practicing                 awtot 09a          r cap) - Per capita amomoal consmption In kilogram.
p Wac    5 qual   idfana medical school at university level,                           wiian olrm      om      production p3no mt import. of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC IlDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                             ANNUAL RATF. OF GPOWTB (%, corcta, t  ces)
US$ Mn.         %                   1960-67        1967-74            1975
GNP at Market Prices                    5g3.0        100.0                   5.0            5.6              -1.1
Gross Domestic Investment               Z08.0         35.0                   .-            10.0              35.0
Gross National Saving                   150.0         25.3                                  6.4             -42.0
Currcrit Account Balance                -88.6         14.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                   310.0         52.3                   ..            11.4             -38.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                  -368.o         62.0                   *-            11.7              21.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTTVITY IN 1973
1              V. A. Per Worker
Value Added               Labor Force                    % Total lOnrorle
'US-$ Mln.      _           Thou.        %           US $        in fgr oXn-
Agriculture, forestry, fishing           77.2         17.5           255       45            303         18
Industry, mining, constructiOn          143.2         32.3         (
Services                                165.7         37.4         (         (
Unallocated                              56.6         12.8           315     ( 55          (1160 o       82
Total/Average                        .                                               t           (
42.j7        100.0           570      100.0          777        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                         Central Governrent
( Mln-)I                        (CFAF Bln.)(est.)            d oI GDP
1970      1274     1970-74      1973      1974      1975     9-A21      1973-75
Current Receipts                          ..        ..         ..        22.1      40.1      40.2      28.3       25.4
Current Expenditure                       ..        ..         ..        22.3      38.9      46.o       2         26.6
Current Surplus                           ..        ..         ..         -.2       3.2      -5.8      -4.0       -1.1
Capital Expenditures      'a                       ..                     3.5       7.1      10.9       7.6-       5.3
External Assistance (net) -                                                .3       2.6       2.2       1.5        1.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                     1969         2            i971        31972         1            1974
(Million CFAF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       11,4660      13,240       14,660       15,760       17,970       25,260
Bank credit to Public Sector                -  47O      -   80       - 270          68o         1,970        2,280
Bank Credit to Private Sector               13,620       14,130       15,360       16,790       19,320       21,150
(Percentages or Index Nueibers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               15.4         16.8         18.6        '19.9         19.9         17.o
General Price Index (1970 - 100)
(consumer prices)                      98.5        100.0         104.1        114.3        11B.3        121.3
4npual percentage changes in:
GereIal Price Index                           - 1.0           1.5          4.1          9.8          3,5          2.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                                                .195.t                              1.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                    4.8          3.7          8.7          9.3          1.i         la.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at 0te average exchange rate prevailing dufrinr the period
covered.  In 1973 the CFAF franc appreciated ag&Ast the *US by 10 percent, compared vith 191.2.
1/ Total labor foroe, unemployed are allocated to secbor of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
i   Includes dravings and repayments of National Development Bank of Congo.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 Of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVEFAGE 1972-75; Prov.)
1973          4       1975                                           US$ Mlran    _
(Millions            (Est.)
Crude oil                        78.0      46.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            178.4      310.0      270.0            Logs and processed timber        35.7      21.1
Imports of Goods, NFS           -230.6     -368.0     _    o88.0        Potash                           21.2      12.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       -52.2      -59.1     -218.0            Sugar and molasses                9.4       5.5
Interest Payments (net)-!        -21.1      -11.1      -16.3
Workers' Remittances             - 4.3      - 2.8      - 2.2
Other Factor Payments (net)      - 9.5      -11.8      -13.0
Net Transfers                    - 2.2      - 3.8      - 4.8           All other commodities             24.5      14.5
Balance on Current Account       -90.6      -88.6     -254.3                Total                       I18§      IC0.0
Direct Foreign Investment_/       69.1       27.6       50.0          EXTERNAL  DEET. DECEMBER 31. 1975/
Net MLT Borrowing (Public)
Disbursements                   8.5       56.8      121.0                                                 USt Mlr.
Amortization                   -3.9      -11.0      -27.6
Subtotal                        14.6     T5TT        93.4            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         432.8
Capital Grants                    15.5       23.3       25.6            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Other Capital (net)               -3.9      -46.3        0.0            Total outstanding and Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                  1.6       58.2       60.3
Increase in Reserves (+)          -3.7       20.0      -25.0          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974E
Gross Reserves (end year)          7.9       27.9        2.9
Net Reserves   (end year)          1.9       20.0        ..             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           7.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding and Disbursed
Imports (Prov.)                 3.1        3.4        3.4
of vhich: Petroleum
Exports                        36.5      169.8     lS4.o
of which:  Petroleum         36.5      169.5      124.0          IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31. 1975 (Millicn US$):
IBFD       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed        22.9      10.3
Throuh -171                              3-Jaeb. 19T3  Jsn. 1974        Undisbursed                       -        11.2
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 277.71           US$ 1.00   CFAF 230.21                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    22.9      21.5
CFAF 1.00   U us$ 0.0036         CFAF 1.00 = US$ 0.0043
Average Exchange Rate
2192- Jan.C1973                    1974 - 1975
US$ 1.00 - CAF 255.79            US$ 1.00   CFAF 225
CFAF 1.00 = US$ 0.0039           CFAF 1.00 n US$ o.0044
U Based on major reporting additions through August 21, 1975.
2 Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
a/ Excludes direct investment income except in 1973.
/ Net, includes some private long term borroving by petroleum companies, and nets out direct investment income,
except in 1973.
1/20/76 (Date)
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROIP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOAN'; AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1976)
Amount US$ million
Loan or Credit  Fiscal                                          (less cancellations)
Number       Year       Borrower         Purpose         Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
480-CoB         1967      Com;iagnie des    Potash mine      30.00      -        -
Potesses du
Congo
s-6-CoB         1969      Congo              Highway                   0.04      -
Engineering       -
189-COB          1970      Congo              Highway           _       1.50      -
Improvement
237-COB          1971      Congo              Education         -       3.50     1.9
274-COB          1971      Congo              Highway           -       4.00     0.9
Maintenance
297-COB          1972      Congo             Railway            _       6.30      -
Improvement
297-COB          1973      CongD              Railway           -       0.60     0.3
Improvement
435-COB          1973      Congo              Livestock                 5.60     4.7
Total (less cancellation)          30.00    21.54     7.8
of which, repaid                   9.0      0o.4
Tota:L now held                    21.0     21.50
Totail undisbursed                           7.8
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTIENTS
Nil



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1
Ln No. 480 Potash Project: US$30.0 million Loan of January 9, 1967;
Effective Date: March 7, 1967; Closing Date: September 30, 1970
This loan has been fully disbursed. In his memorandum of September
21, 1971, the Secretary informed the Executive Directors about the status of
the project and the serious problems concerning the sylvite ore body (see
Document Sec. M71-456). The resulting difficulties have limited production
to about 212,000 tons of KC1 (about 25 percent of rated capacity) in 1970, and
between 400,000,to 500,000 tons per annum of KC1 (about 50 to 60 percent of
rated capacity) in 1971 and thereafter. At this level of operations, the
company had a cash loss in 1971 before interest and depreciation of about
US$1.7 million. In 1972 and in 1974, small cash surpluses before deprecia-
tion and interest were achieved. Recoverable sylvite ore reserves will limit
production at the current rate to a few more years. However, vast carnallite
reserves at the same site encouraged a feasibility study of producing potash
from carnallite. The study was commissioned early 1975 and may cost more
than $4 million. Additional investments for a proposed carnallite project
may be above US$60 milion. Given current tentative data, the project appears
promising.
Cr No. 189 Highway Improvement Project: US$1.5 million Credit of May 28,
1970; Effective Date: October 19, 1970; Closing Date: October
30, 1973
The project, providing for the improvement of the 34 km Pointe
Noire-Makola road, was completed on schedule: in March 1973, and the Credit
fully disbursed and closed October 30, 1973.
Cr No. 237 Education Project: US$3.5 million Credit of March 26, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: September 30,
1976
The project consists of (a) the construction, furnishing, and equip-
ment of (i) a teacher training college at Loubomo; (ii) a technician training
institute at Pointe Noire; (iii) a vocational training center at Boko; and
(iv) extensions to two second-cycle general schools at Pointe Noire and
Brazzaville; and (b) the provision of 26 man-years of technical assistance.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
The project is about 15 months behind schedule due to: (a) ini-
tial delays in appointing the consulting architects, in design work and on
procurement, (b) frequent: shortages of building materials, and (c) the poor
performance of two contractors. Most project activities should be completed
by September 1976. It is probable that the closing date will need to be post-
poned by about three mont:hs to December 1976. Cost overruns amount to about
US$1.2 million due primarily to a 25 percent decline of the dollar exchange
rate since appraisal. About US$0.65 million of the cost overrun is being
financed under a bilateral technical assistance agreement; the balance will
be met by Government. The project is well managed and proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Cr No. 274  Highway Maintenance Project:   US$4.0 million Credit of December
12, 1971; Effective Date: March 17, 1972; Closing Date: December
31, 1976
The project provides for refinancing of the Road Engineering Credit
S6-COB (US$600,000), and for implementation of a four-year highway maintenance
program. Because of the Government's inability to finance the recurrent ex-
penditures for maintenance, and also due to the effects of currency realign-
ments and inflation, the Association and Government have twice agreed on scal-
ing down the scope of the project. The reduced project has been completed.
Cr No. 297 First Railway Project: US$6.3 million Credit of April 7, 1972;
Effective Date: May 30, 1972; increased by US$0.6 million on
July 3, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1976
The project covers a portion of ATC's 1972-75 development plan and
the credit provides financing for: (i) detailed engineering for the proposed
realignment of a 100 km mountain section of the railway where operating and
maintenance costs are high and capacity is inadequate for increasing traffic;
(ii) a study of future traffic, costs and tariffs of ATC's operating sections;
and (iii) the provision of freight cars to improve the railway's operations.
The above items have been fully implemented; closing of the loan is pending
an imminent guarantee payment for the freight cars.
Cr No. 435 Livestock Project: US$ 5.6 million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves establishment of a 30,000 ha ranch, develop-
ment of a 35,000 beef cattle herd, applied to improve and support livestock
development, and training in ranch management. Development of ranch infra-
structure is proceeding satisfactorily,but procurement of cattle is behind
schedule. The development cost is significantly higher than at appraisal,
but with beef selling prices about double those at appraisal, the project
is considered viable. As of 1/31/76, disbursements are at 33 percent of ap-
praisal estimates,but are expected to rise quickly with forthcoming delivery
of cattle.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 6 pages
CONGO - SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Agence Transcongolaise des Communications.
Guarantor:           People's Republic of the Congo.
Amount:              US$38.0 million.
Terms:               25 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 8.5 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       The Project comprises the Borrower's Investment Plan
for 1974-78 as follows;
Part A:       Training and Operations at the Borrower's Headquarters
1. The provision of training facilities and equipment.
2. Technical assistance consisting of about 40 man-years of
specialists' services to make recommendations with respect
to, and carry out, programs in financial management,
operations and training.
Part B:       Port of Pointe Noire
1. The installation of timber handling facilities.
2. The construction of a new berth for manganese ore handling,
and the conversion of the existing manganese ore handling
berth into a general cargo handling berth.
3. The improvement of the slipway facilities.
4. Dredging.
5. Port equipment.
Part C:        River Ports and Services
1. The extension of facilities at Brazzaville and secondary
river ports.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 6 pages
2. The purchase and installation of additional
mechanical handling equipment and the renewal of
existing equipment.
3. The expansion of workshops at Brazzaville.
4. The deepening of river channels and improvements
of navigational aids.
5. The purchase and use of tugs and barges to increase
the Borrower's river transport capacity.
Part D:       CFCO Railway
1.  Track renewal, principally on the Holle-Loubomo
section (until the new line referred to in Part D.8
hereof is in service).
2. The completion of works to lengthen crossing loops
and the installation of signalling systems at selected
stations.
3. The improvement of marshalling yard facilities at
Pointe Noire and Brazzaville.
4. The improvement of bridges and tunnels.
5.  The extension and use of mechanical equipment work-
shops at Pointe Noire.
6. Improvements to freight cars.
7. The purchase of 10 main line locomotives and 10
passenger cars.
8.  (a)  The track improvement of the Holle-Fourastie
section (about 18 km); and
(b) The construction of a new alignment between
Fourastie and Loubomo-(about 88 km), including
the related earthworks, tunnels and bridges.
9. The provision of railcar bogies and radio equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 15, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 6 pages
Estimated Cost
(net of taxes):
US$ Million equivalent
% of
Local       Foreign        Total       Total
ATC Headquarters                 2.05          3.42         5.47          2
Pointe Noire Port                6.49          3.86        10.35          5
River Ports and Services         4.13         11.69        15.82          6
CFCO General                    14.35         19.96        34.31         15
Total                         27.02         38.93        65.95         28
Physical contingencies           2.04          1.47         3.51          2
Price contingencies              7.74          7.73        15.47          6
Total                         36.80         48.13        84.93         36
CFCO Realignment                34.81         71.07       105.88         45
Physical contingencies           3.50          6.77        10.27          5
Price contingencies             11.18         21.49        32.67         14
Total                         49.49         99.33       148.82         64
Grand Total                   86.29        147.46       233.75        100
Financing Plan:      The proposed Loan of US$38.0 million will be used for fi-
nancing (a) the provision of training facilities and
equipment, and technical assistance at the Borrower's
Headquarters (US$3.8 million), (b) about 21 percent of
the realignment and track improvements (US$31.0 million),
(c) the retroactive financing of railcar bogies and
radio equipment for the CFCO (US$0.2 million) and (d)
'interest during construction (US$3.0 million).



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 6 pages
The CFCO realignment will be financed by a con-
sort:ium in the following amounts (converted into
US$ equivalent at current exchange rates):
US$ million
equivalent
Bank                                                  31.0
Saudi Fund for Development                            20.0
Congo Government                                      17.8
Fonds Europeen de Developpement                       17.3
Canadian Interniational Development Agency            12.7
Kuwait Fund for Economic Development                  13.6
African Development Bank                              12.4
Fonds d'Aide eit de Cooperation                       11.1
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa          10.0
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique              4.4
The remainder of the ATC Investment Plan will be financed by the
following donors with thae amounts shown, converted into US$ equivalent at
current exchange rates:
US$ million
equivalent
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique/
Compagnie Francaise de Credit pour
1'Exportation                                       33.4
Agence Transcongolaise des Communications             21.6
African Development Bank                               9.9
Fonds Europeen de Developpement/European
Investment Bank                                      4.7
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation                         4.6
Bank                                                   3.8
Congo Government                                       3.5
Congo Banks                                            2.7
COMILOG                                                0.8



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 6 pages
Terms of Major External Financing
Interest
Term          Grace Period         per annum
Loans         (years)          (years)            (percent)
ADB           15 - 20             5                   7
FED             40               10                   1
CIDA            50               10                   0
CCCE         14 - 20            2 - 8            5.5 - 5.75
ABEDA            25               5                   4
KDF              25               5                   4
SFD             25                5                  4
Grants
FAC (total contribution)
FED (50 percent of contribution)
CIDA (US$1 million)
Estimated
Disbursements:       Fiscal Year                  Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ million)
1976/77                               20.1
1977/78                               33.1
1978/79                               38.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        Contractors for the main civil works of the CFCO realign-
ment have been designated in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Although building extensions for the training
schools will be let by ATC as local contracts, imported
materials required and equipment to be installed will
be obtained by international competitive bidding or other
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants:         Consultants will be employed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank to assist the ATC in (a) improving
its operations and training programs (about 40 man-years),
and (b) supervising the construction of the CFCO realign-
ment and other works included under Part D.8 of the Proj-
ect.



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 6 pages
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return on the Project is calculated
to be 23 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 745a-COB, dated March 9, 1976.






IBRD 2254R8
,  G  E   R                                                        L 1k N<<   '= 
N'd--'eno \0  F      A.
tOno       \ vMaidupUri Jl * t ~S N  f                                    ; ei.
r '.        Nqero            I J            A  FW  RICAIRE wtlP        e!zf       C A 3 I N D AIN
rZi Kod.na 2arouo                                                  ; H  A 6 D          \~x Scrh _. _ AREPUBL iCREPUBLIC
t V   r             \   O~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ Mourda,-. ,_ CCA  j             -    AR
u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                           U.. <r 1 
}   r w             ; ~~~~~~~~~~~Ng ....de~rr  B.tangafo 0  X<
t    r"; .  !                A ..                       C A B N GG
o0                                  ur  A  D        h Sib,t  OBmbori  .                   RUB
t    <      X        (               Oossem~~~~~~~~~8- bele  
Berber . .-
'Y , i .m. 0 -  _,_,\Momnora                   O   ,
ba myo         \.Sarbeol.              \....   Ooq 
EQUATE           !
GUINEA i            --n                                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONC,
-. pBeRIigO  ,  og  X   t  44-     SECOND      RAILWAY     PROJECT
1- 1VILLE       /                        t I  -
0<- og9-6  a            ,. ^ ^                                     FRAVEL OR EARTH ROADS
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AED ROADS
V-                                   Ot- fV) fV  I  P2Z  ATC/ACCP MAINTAINED RIVERS NAVIGATION
f^,^,M b in d .                        4 -a t < N d e r d L   J   $ ' s - t J  h   cAT F oQA   R A IL W A Y
Zoncso  I O                          --J;.-,.OTHER EXISTING RAILWAYS
7\  #S  10  ) O  7 ;  C                s + + + + ~~~~~~~~t04.I-- +COMILOB RAILWAY
.  EX  \{>Sbl  Qg  .COMILOB ROPEWAY
-. f So. lerfod ICr  + D  0,          A              fQ {S Jr 11 TRANSGABON RAILWAY PROJECT
%. A  ' I..-  PROPOSED CFCO RAILWAY REALIGNMENT
F f I i- * | - J   /L LXYKINSHASA
F  *,,,IJ "sf  .5 - /  >1    ,  Tie BonnJ1d , Tho- n on t171lla -p dB  P
/                 ,OPIYC,,dOrCfl,eflI kPly3,  c-pea,wc  0y  hl,
ANGOLA                               k -ldt-k -t °               20A  U. 0w KM
(CABINDA)   Si oWORE
IT8' - '-N-Gofn--                                  2D                             OCTOBER 1975






IBRD  11276R1
'  /; Def  /  .]                    C 0 N 0 O                      OCTOBER 1975
P. J wF  $ e >AGENCE       TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS(ATC)
':t;,  _  ' ,,  APR. REP.                   SECOND     RAILWAY     PROJECT
a  REPUBLIC
PEOPLE'S  F,:,
OF CONGO  ,_  ZA I RE-
ATLANTIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I o-
TL A N  C                                       5   or Ved            rdXM/d          n
0 EAN
J              7h  K iki /ang7ou   Kn16 
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a-
iloan   <                /~~~~~~esSares             ,;K62<%S  ~~~~~~~~~~)Mongo MlssanosuM
XMradingo-J                    J     iSitouJ                 Km 60j(70KK
Kayes t/                                                        Km 84
%'t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kbno                 K n53  ,       8\2_6ui
M ou oul                               730  J  ,rJIL
;  XCs  /,f  H r)  \  /   \   F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ jI ~~PROPOSED REALIGNMENT
T h i               \                        I; {_(< f * XJ) (l2< z z | | | | s So ras  E I S L,!,S
c, 101        Km /6.0_ ¢!i,  &   ________O   ER  T IG S . Eo
,  K   .              (     /(  X     -_E w  11,,p       PrlR)l4RB H K  N,S K mE2
PC!  7 F I T F - I I ~.1 b * ' -  +,  2   ~   /;E  [l ^ 7  X  .  N   PH I tl ,  R . H O OCA OSN  RAILW   PECL a TJ L E -1 ,
\ i         i  /  !  F j  W e: e e -  ~rT 1  IE S   a T;rJS
>   -  ,   ,   <   ffi    X  !" S~~~~~~^  m;, -~  -  F,T RIj . ,,, L 80NA
\ , - e _ * -, _ t 3 aA' X F . | Dt l- - * I ~~~~~~~rglTE%Rr % TuN,  LHOI :F IEL



