OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1047 COB
Project Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1047 COB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS
(hereinafter called ATC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of the Congo (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ATC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ATC, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to ATC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ATC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, in the Development Credit Agree-
ment and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ATC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and railway practices, and shall provide,


﻿-2-
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ATC in the supervision of
the construction of works for Part A of the Project and in
the preparation and negotiations of the amendments of the civil
works contract for said Part, ATC shall continue to employ engi-
neering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ATC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by ATC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ATC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ATC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) ATC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Associ-
ation's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
.            goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall


﻿-3-
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and ATC, ATC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, ATC and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(d) ATC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ATC and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.06. ATC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ATC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ATC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ATC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ATC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ATC
Section 3.01. (a) ATC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and


﻿-4-
carry on its operations, all in- accordance with sound business,
financial and transportation practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without any limitation to the generality of the fore-
going paragraph, ATC shall, within the limits of its powers,
maintain in position at all times a general manager assisted by
a technical general manager, and a manager assisted by a technical
manager for each of its three operating Sections, all qualified
and experienced.
Section 3.02. (a) ATC shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b) Except in the normal course of business, ATC shall
not, without the prior approval of the Association, sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its Railway Assets or
Port and River Transport Assets.
(c) ATC shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and promptly make all necessary repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and transporta-
tion practices.
Section 3.03. ATC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) For the purposes of maintaining the slopes and drainage
works along the new alignment between Bilinga and Loubomo with
sound engineering and transportation practices and enabling the
efficient removal of any obstruction caused by landslides and
rockfalls in the area of said alignment, ATC shall, not later than
January 1, 1982, establish, and thereafter maintain, a special
brigade staffed with appropriately qualified and trained personnel
in adequate number.


﻿-5-
(b) ATC shall furnish to the Association: (i) inspection
reports, on a quarterly basis, concerning the work performed by
the brigade referred to in the above paragraph; and (ii) follow-
ing each rainy season, specific geological investigative reports
concerning the critical slopes in the area of the new alignment
between Bilinga and Loubomo, on a semester basis through June 30,
1985 and at regular intervals to be determined in agreement
between the Assocation and ATC thereafter.
Section 3.05. Until June 30, 1985 or such other date as
the Association and ATC may agree, ATC shall maintain the existing
track between Bilinga and Loubomo in operational condition.
Section 3.06. ATC shall: (a) carry out its Action Plan with
due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (b) take all such measures as shall
be required to meet the annual operating targets set forth or
referred to in Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (c) moni-
tor progress in the implementation of the Action Plan; (d) in
consultation with the Association, review and update its Action
Plan at least annually; and (e) furnish to the Association semi-
annual progress reports on its Action Plan and annual revisions
thereto.
Section 3.07. ATC shall: (a) make all necessary arrangements,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose, to complete, by December 31,
1.982 or such other date as the Association and ATC may agree, the
first phase of the rehabilitation program of the permanent way
between Mont Belo and Brazzaville, the scope of the works to be
carried out under said first phase being determined in agreement
between the Association and ATC; and (b) beginning January 1,
1981, furnish to the Association, on a semester basis, progress
reports, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution of said first phase.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ATC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, and separately,
the operation and financial condition of each of its Sections.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. ATC shall: (a) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (b) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ATC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. ATC shall: (a) not later than April 30, 1981
or such other date as the Association and ATC may agree, furnish
to the Association for its review a cost-based tariff study;
(b) not later than June 30, 1981 or such other date as the
Association and ATC may agree, consult with the Association on the
recommendations relating to tariff implementation included in said
study; and
(c) promptly thereafter initiate the implementation of
tariffs on the basis of such recommendations as are satisfactory
to the Borrower, the Association and ATC.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ATC shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues for
the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is greater, shall be not less than 1.25 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt, including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all indebtedness of ATC maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract or other instrument provid-
ing for such debt or modifying its terms of payment;


﻿7-7
(c) the term "net revenues" means the difference between
(A) gross operating revenue from all sources, adjusted to take
account of ATC's tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence
of debt even though they were not in effect during the entire
fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate,
and (B) all operating expenses, including adequate maintenance,
taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but before provision
for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever in connection with this Section, it shall
be necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable
in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign
currency is obtainable by ATC, at the time such valuation is made,
for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such foreign
currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. Until December 31, 1984, or such other date
as the Association and ATC may agree, ATC shall not, without
prior consultation with the Association, undertake any investment
or group of investments (other than for the Project) in an aggre-
gate estimated amount exceeding the equivalent of four hundred
million CFA Francs (CFAF400,000,000).
Section 4.06. (a) As part of the measures required to meet
the financial targets set forth in Section 4.07 of this Agreement,
ATC shall annually review tho level of its tariffs on domestic and
international transit traffic and forward to the Borrower, not
later than July 31 of each year, detailed proposals for tariff
increases to be effective in January of the following year; ATC
shall also forward said proposals to the Association for review
and comments.
(b) In formulating its proposals for tariff increases, ATC
shall take into account: (i) forecast of traffic for the following
year based, inter alia, on traffic performance during the first
six months of the current year; (ii) forecast of working expenses
for the following year based, inter alia, on actual expenses
incurred during the first six months of the current year and on
expected inflation rates for the following year; (iii) needs to


﻿-8-
generate sufficient cash to cover (A) debt service requirements
for the following year, (B) at least 50% of the annual deprecia-
tion provisions for the following year, and (C) minimum working
capital requirements as set forth in Section 4.08 of this Agree-
ment. It is furthermore specified that the forecasts referred to
in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) above shall be determined by ATC in
agreement with the Association.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ATC shall take all such measures as shall be reqiircd: (i)
to earn an annual rate of return of at least five percent in
fiscal year 1981 and in each fiscal year thereafter; and (ii) to
maintain working ratios not exceeding 68% for fiscal year 1981 and
65% for fiscal year 1982 and each fiscal year thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (i) of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
in respect of each fiscal year by relating the net
operating revenue for that year to the average of
the value of the net fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating revenue" means the differ-
ence between (A) gross operating revenue and (B)
operating and administrative expenses, including
adequate maintenance and depreciation and taxes
(notwithstanding any waiving thereof by the Bor-
rower) other than income taxes, if any, but exclud-
ing income taxes, interest and other charges on
debt (if any); and
(iii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of fixed assets in operation
less the accumulated depreciation, such assets to
be valued and such depreciation to be calculated
from time to time in accordance with appropriate
and consistently maintained methods of valuation
and depreciation acceptable to the Association.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section:
(i) the term "working ratio" means the ratio of operat-
ing expenses to gross operating revenue;


﻿-9-
(ii) the term "operating expenses" means the aggregate
of operating expenses for staff, head office,
materials, fuel and lubricants including other
expenses for maintenance of fixed assets in opera-
tion and taxes, if any, but excluding provisions
for depreciation of such assets and debt service
requirements; and
(iv) the term "gross operating revenue" means gross
revenue derived from ATC's services.
(d) In order to permit a realistic assessment of ATC's
operating targets in terms of rate of return within the meaning of
this Section, ATC shall: (i) revalue its fixed assets in the Port
of Pointe Noire in order to incorporate the results thereof in
ATC's financial statements as of December 31, 1980; and (ii) at
five-year intervals, or less if necessary, after the date of this
Agreement, review the situation of all its fixed assets in consul-
tation with the Association and, from time to time, undertake
revaluations,of its fixed assets.
Section 4.08. (a) ATC shall from time to time take all
necessary steps to meet, not later than December 31, 1981 or such
other date as the Association and ATC may agree, and, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, thereafter maintain approx-
imately the following ratios within its working capital:
(i) minimum cash: 1/12 of annual expenses for personnel
incurred during the previous twelve-month period;
(ii) accounts receivable: not more than two months,
i.e. 1/6, of gross receipts from traffic and other
commercial transactions incurred during the pre-
vious twelve-month period;
(iii) inventories: (A) not more than half-a-month, i.e.
1/24, of actual expenses for diesel fuel and
lubricants incurred during the previous twelve-
month period, and
(B) not more than: 75% for fiscal year 1980,
72% for fiscal year 1981,
69% for fiscal year 1982,
66% for fiscal year 1983,
63% for fiscal year 1984 and


﻿- 10 -
for each fiscal year thereafter, of actual expenses
for other materials incurred during the previous
twelve-month period; and
(iv) accounts payable: not more than 25% of annual
operating expenses, excluding staff and head
office expenses, incurred during the previous
twelve-month period.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (iv) of this Section,
ATC shall take all measures, within its powers, to agree with the
Borrower, not later than December 31, 1980, on a plan for the
settlement of all outstanding accounts in arrears including a
schedule for the final settlement of any amounts owed, respec-
tively, by or to the Borrower, or ATC, or any enterprise of the
public and para-public sectors.
Section 4.09. By December 31, 1980 or such other date as
the Association and ATC may agree, ATC shall take all such mea-
sures as shall be required to establish and thereafter maintain a
positive working capital. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "working capital" means the amount by which the value
of the current assets exceeds the value of the amount of the
current liabilities;
(b) "current assets" include operating cash, stocks of
stores (less provision for obsolescent stock), fuel and other
materials, and all amounts currently owed to ATC (less provision
for bad debt);
(c) "current liabilities" include all amounts currently
owed by ATC;
(d) amounts owed to or by ATC are current if they are
due for settlement within twelve months after the date of incur-
rence of the debt; and
(e) "operating cash" means cash freely available to ATC
(without restriction or encumbrance) for conducting its operations
on a day-to-day basis.
Section 4.10. After January 1, 1984 or such other date as
the Association and ATC may agree, ATC shall use borrowing and
overdraft facilities only if exceptional circumstances justify


﻿- 11 -
such use or in order to smooth seasonal variations in cash flow,
it being specified that in any case ATC shall not use such facili-
ties in an amount exceeding one billion CFA Francs
(CFAFl,000,000,000).
Section 4.11. (a) Until November 15, 1984 at least, ATC shall
by November 15 in each year, exchange views with the Association
on its estimated financial results for such year and on its draft
budget for the following year.
(b) Prior to the presentation of such budget to its Board of
Directors, ATC shall, in agreement with the Association, take such
steps as shall be necessary or advisable to remedy any deficiency
in such budget.
(c) ATC shall ensure that adequate funds are provided
in its budget for each fiscal year to cover the operations of
the maintenance brigade referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of ATC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fourteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ATC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given. or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W. .
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ATC:
Agence Transcongolaise des
Communications
B.P. 670
Pointe Noire
The People's Republic of the Congo
Cable address:                      Telex:
ATRANSCOM                           8231 KG
Pointe Noire                        Pointe Noire
The People's Republic of the        The People's
Congo                          Republic of
the Congo


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ATC may be taken or executed by its
Directeur G6n6ral or such other person or persons as
ATC shall designate in writing, and ATC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        wL&D            ~a
CA.-   Regional Vice President
Western Africa
AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   Procurement of Equipment
I.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For equipment to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, ATC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the equipment in question. ATC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any equip-
ment remains to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of equipment to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to
state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
equipment, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
equipment, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of equipment shall not be
taken into account in the evaluation of the bids.
II. Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:            a


﻿- 15 -
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ATC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ATC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ATC and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, ATC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution. and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ATC and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Procurement of Civil Works ,
1.   Civil works for Part A of the Project shall be procured
in accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   The civil works for Part A of the Project may be carried
out under the civil works contract awarded pursuant to the 1976
Loan Agreement, notified on April 15, 1976, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
3.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association: (a) for its
approval any further amendment to the contract referred to in
paragraph 2 above; and (b) promptly after the execution of any
such amendment and prior to the submission to the Association of
any application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of the contract after any such amendment, two conformed
copies of the contract as amended.
C.   Modification to Terms and Conditions of Contracts
Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of any contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of any such contract, or
issuing any change order under any such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than the equivalent of $200,000, ATC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and ATC and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Action Plan Outline
1.   The basic objective of the Action Plan is to restore ATC's
productivity at all levels in the operating units in order: (a) to
meet the traffic demand and achieve the operating targets set out
in Annex 1 to this Schedule; and (b) to meet the financial targets
set out in Sections 4.07, 4.08 and 4.09 of this Agreement.
2.   As provided under the Action Plan, measures satisfactory to
the Association, to be taken at the respective dates specified
hereunder or such other dates as the Association may agree, shall
include, inter alia, the following:
(i) by December 31, 1980, measures for the reorganiza-
tion of financial management with emphasis on
improved budget control and internal audit func-
tions, and introduction of an improved accounting
system to provide financial information by cost and
profit centers and to assist in decentralized
decision-making for greater efficiency in order to
attain the financial targets set out in Sections
4.07, 4.08, and 4.09 of this Agreement;
(ii) by December 31, 1980, measures for the improvement
of the commercial organization to better anticipate
market requirements, actively promote new services,
and carry out tariff impact studies to facilitate
implementation of appropriate tariff policies; and
(iii) measures for the improvement of the technical
organization in each operating unit through sound
operating practices and systematic maintenance of
facilities and equipment, in order to attain the
operating targets set out in Annex 1 to this
Schedule. Measures relating to each of the follow-
ing Sections shall be taken, inter alia, as fol-
lows, for:
a)   CFCO Railway
Before or by March 31, 1981:
1.   rehabilitation of ten mainline locomo-
tives;


﻿- 18 -
2.   strengthening of personnel assigned to
the locomotive running shed at Pointe
Noire;
3.  improvement of programming of supplies
and works in the Permanent Way Depart-
ment; and
4.   reorganization of work positions and
improvement of material management
methods in the General Stores and
Supplies Department.
Before or by June 30, 1981:
1.   reorganization of work positions and
improvement of material management in the
Workshops; and
2.  implementation of an appropriate trans-
port plan for a better utilization of
rolling stock and motive power on the
basis of consultants' recommendations.
b)   River Transport Services:
Before or by December 31, 1980:
1.   implementation of a new information
system to provide appropriate statistical
tools for management; and
2.  improvement of the transport plan to cope
with seasonal changes in river flow.
Before or by June 30, 1981, strengthening of
training for navigation personnel and workshop
mechanics.
c)   Port of Pointe Noire:
Before or by June 30, 1981:
1.   definition of an optimal dredging pro-
gram;
2.   improvement of tug utilization; and
3.   contribution to the improvement of cargo
handling efficiency.


﻿- 19 -
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Annual Operating Targets
1980          1982        1984
A. CFCO
I. Traffic
Freight tons ('000)
(excluding manganese)   1,300        1,400        1,580
Passenger-kms(million)      300          330          360
II. Operating
Average mainline
locomotive
availability (%)         60            65            70
Mainline locomotive
annual mileage
('000 km)                61            75            90
Average gross load
per freight/mixed
train                   600           690           780
Turnaround time of
freight cars
- box cars and others    10             9             8
- timber (21m)           10             8             6
- tank cars               8             7             6
III. Staff Productivity
(1,000 TKM per
permanent employee)     185           200           225
Total number of
permanent staff,
including technical
assistants            4,323         4,400         4,500
B. Port of Pointe Noire
I. Traffic
Tons ('000)
(timber & general
cargo)                  861         1,095         1,232


﻿- 20 -
1980          1982        1984
II. Operating
Berth occupancy rate                            below 70%
Annual tonnage of cargo
per berth
- general cargo         90,000       100,000    115,000
- timber               100,000       115,000    130,000
- container                 -             -     365,000
III. Staff
Total number of
permanent staff            516           520        526
C. River Ports
I. Traffic
Tons ('000)
(Port of Brazzaville)      497           605        734
D. River Transport
I. Traffic
II. Operating
Average rotation of
convoys
Brazzaville/Bangui            not to exceed 30 days
Annual tonnage transported/
micropusher              4,500                    5,500
III. Staff
Total number of
permanent staff          1,076         1,103      1,130


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   A        day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


