CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1228 COB
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second Railway Project)
between
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 12, 1976
SI


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1976, between THE PEOPLE'S REPUB-
LIC OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC) (here-
inafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-eight
million dollars ($38,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guar-
antee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SectiL 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance of
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Guarantor shall undertake to grant to
.he Borrower four billion CFA Francs (CFAF4,000,000,000) for Part
D.8 of the Project, and approximately one billion CFA Francs
(CFAFl,000,000,000) for Part C.5 of the Project, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement and of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, and, until December 31, 1980, to ser-
vice the Borrower's debts, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expendi-
tures and to service such debts.


﻿- 4-                                     0
(c) Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing,
the Guarantor shall take all measures as shall be required to ensure
that adequate borrowing and overdraft facilities are available to
the Borrower until the Borrower's working capital has reactiea the
level required under Section 5.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, special security from the memoer concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guar-
antor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall consult with the Bank prior
to undertaking any major investment in the transport sector outside
the Borrower's investment plans.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall make adequate provision to
cause the enterprises providing services complementary to the
operations of the Borrower to make investments required and take
all other measures necessary to assure the flow of traffic over the
transport networks of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor, through its appropriate Ministry
and other appropriate agencies, shall take all necessary measures:
(a) to ensure that, unless the Guarantor and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, operating rights in the forestry sector in Southern
Congo (Sibiti-Zanaga-Mossendjo) and in Zone I (Ouesso) of Northern
Congo be granted not later than December 31, 1977; and (b) to
promptly implement the Guidelines set forth in Article 70 of


﻿* --
Decree No. 74/188 of May 6, 1974 relating to the inventory and
exploitation of Zone II in Northern Congo.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall ensure that a unit within
its Commissariat GEngral au Plan, sufficiently staffed with qual-
ified professionals, acting in coordination with the appropriate
Ministry shall: (i) gather all necessary information in order to
monitor the collection of direct and indirect taxes applicable to
forestry enterprises; (ii) process statistical data pertaining
to said taxes and to production costs and f.o.b. values of timber
and wood-base products; and (iii) prepare, for each fiscal year,
beginning with the year 1976, a report including inter alia an
analysis of such information and data so obtained, a summary of
its operations and any recommendations for possible changes in
the tax system, laws and regulations in the forestry sector,
which shall be submitted to the Bank for its comments not later
than three months after the end of each such year or such other
date as the Guarantor and the Bank shall agree.


﻿-    -                                    (
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere des Finances de la R4publique
Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
Republique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Brazzaville-Republique Populaire du Congo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto iuly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s/ Nicolas Mondjo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


