OFFICI        SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 45 COB
DOCUMENTS
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Railway Project)
between
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of Lhe EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated                 \      , 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 45 COB
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (the Borrower or the Congo),
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
WHEREAS by a loan agreement (hereinafter called the 1976
Loan Agreement) dated April 12, 1976 between the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called
the Bank) and Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (herein-
after called ATC), the Bank has agreed to make to ATC a loan in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million dollars
($38,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the 1976 Loan Agreement (hereinafter called the
Second Railway Project), on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
WHEREAS supplemental financing is now necessary to enable ATC
to continue the carrying out of the Second Railway Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
said supplemental financing to cover the cost of the items des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which are part of the
Second Railway Project (said items hereinafter called the Pro-
ject), and the Administrator has determined that such assistance
would be in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of
May 2, 1978 referred to above;
WHEREAS the Project will be carried out by ATC with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to ATC the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit as hereinafter provided; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Admin-
istrator and ATC.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) The term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement.
(b) The terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively.
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted.
(d) In Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-3-
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom.
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment.
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Administrator and ATC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement.
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ATC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(e) "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Bor-
rower.
(f) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower, including CFA Franc in countries other
than the People's Republic of the Congo where such currency is
also the national currency.
(g) "Sections" means ATC's operating sections set forth
in Article 3 of the Borrower's Decree No. 70/38 dated February 11,
1970 regulating ATC.
(h) "CFCO" means ATC's Section Chemin de Fer Congo-Oc6an.
(i) "Port and River Transport Assets" means all present
and future property and assets (including any rights, powers,
privileges and franchises) of ATC required for the efficient
management and operation of the Ports of Pointe Noire, Brazza-
ville and secondary river ports and for its river transport
operations.
(j) "Railway Assets" means all present and future property
and assets (including any rights, powers, privileges and fran-
chises) of ATC required for the efficient management and operation
of the CFCO Railway.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
Five million seven
hundred eighty-three
thousand                 Belgian francs      (BF5,783,000);
Seven hundred twenty
thousand                 Danish kroner         (DK720,000);
Two million seven hundred
eighty thousand          Deutsche Mark       (DM2,780,000);
Two million nine hundred
thirty-eight thousand    French francs       (FF2,938,000);
Six thousand four hundred Irish pounds            (IrE6,400);
Three hundred forty
million nine hundred
sixty-three thousand     Italian lire     (ItL340,963,000);
One hundred eighty-two
thousand                 Luxembourg francs     (LF182,000);
Seven hundred sixty-eight Netherlands          (Dfl 768,000);
thousand                 guilders
and
Seven hundred eight
thousand six hundred     Pounds sterling        (9708,600).
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and


﻿-5-
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a Special Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the French Republic, or in another currency selected by the
Administrator in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, after their conversion into such currency on the
basis of exchange rates determined in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association


﻿-6-
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and Ncvember 1 commencing May 1, 1990
and ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best effo .ts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment   f principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower


﻿-7-
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
Section 2.08. ATC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Special Action Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ATC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth or referred
to, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ATC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit to ATC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ATC under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Administrator.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to accomplish
the purposes of the Special Action Credit, and except as the
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to ATC will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying


﻿-8-
out of this Project and the Second Railway Project, and until
June 30, 1982, to service ATC's debts, to make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Administrator, promptly to provide ATC or
cause ATC to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures and to service such debts.
(b) Without limitation- to the generality of the foregoing,
the Borrower shall take all measures as shall be required to
ensure that adequate borrowing and overdraft facilities are
available to ATC until ATC's working capital has reached the level
required under Section 5.09 of the 1976 Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) ATC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of ATC under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ATC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ATC or for the suspension of its operations.
(d) The Borrower's Ordonnance No. 21/69 dated October 24,
1969 establishing ATC, the Borrower's Decree No. 70/38 dated
February 11, 1970 regulating ATC or any other legislation or
regulation of the Borrower governing the establishment, organiza-
tion and powers of ATC shall, without the pricr approval of the
Administrator, have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived.
(e) ATC shall have been divested of any of the Railway
Assets or Port and River Transport Assets or the operation or
management thereof.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-9-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Administrator to the Borrower and ATC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ATC.
(b) ATC has taken all the actions referred to in Section
3.02 of the Project Agreement, as provided in such Section.
(c) The Borrower has, for the purpose of meeting its imme-
diate obligations under Section 4.01 hereof made arrangements
satisfactory to the Administrator to provide ATC with sufficient
funds to increase its working capital by an amount of at least
CFAF4,000,000,000.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Administrator:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ATC, and is legally binding upon ATC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and ATC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ATC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date          L Coo IIK        is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Special Action Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
fourteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare des Finances de la R6publique
Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
B.P. 1183
Rfpublique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFIINANCES                       PRESICONGO
Brazzaville                         52 10 KG
Rpublique Populaire du Congo
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By                                S
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category         in Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Consultants'           1,420,000               100% of for-
services and                                  eign expendi-
equipment for                                 tures
Part A of the
Project
(2) Locomotive             2,660,000               100% of for-
spare parts                                   eign expendi-
tures
(3) Unallocated             920,000
TOTAL 5,000,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of, and for goods
produced in or services supplied from, (i) any of the Member
States and (ii) any developing country, other than the Borrower,
which is a member of the International Development Association and
could be the recipient of a Special Action Credit, as determined
by the Administrator; provided, however, that if the currency of


﻿- 13 -
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territory of
which goods are produced or from the territory of which services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) expenditures for locomotive spare parts in respect of
Category (2) unless ATC shall have furnished to the Administrator,
in a format acceptable to the Administrator, comprehensive lists
of said spare parts, prior to undertaking the procurement thereof,
including their estimated quantity, nature, c. and f. price,
and proposed procurement procedures applicable thereto, and the
Administrator shall have reviewed and approved said lists.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Crtegory and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such


﻿- 14 -
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's main purpose is to assist ATC in strenghtening
its operational efficiency as anticipated in its investment
program for 1974 - 1978, and, to that end, the Project consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:
(a) Continuation of an on-going management, operations and
training improvement program and provision of technical assistance
to ATC's Mechanical Engineering Department (workshops), all
through the provision of about 170 man-months of consultants'
services.
(b) Provision of equipment related to such foregoing program
and assistance.
Part B:
Provision of locomotive spare parts.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    I /     day of          ,
192SL .
FOR SECRETARY


