Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7022
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2115-BAR
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
November 24, 1987
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizafton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1.00 - BDS$2.00
BDS$1.OO - US$0.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATCC - Agricultural Trading Company
BADC - Barbados Agricultural Development Corporation
BMC - Barbados Marketing Corporation
BSIL - Barbados Sugar Industries Limited
CAO - Chief Agricultural Officer
KAFF - Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
MOFP - Ministry of Finance and Planning
GOVERNMENT OF BARBADOS
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR maO.AL UK OLY
THE WOBtO SANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S A
O!re4mm fWg~trn
November 24, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Barbados Technical Assistance
Proiect (Loan 2115-BAR) - Aaricultural Component
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Barbados Technical Assistance Project (Loan
2115-BAR)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.
Under the modified system for project perforr nce auditing, further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has
not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOE OUTCmL UW ONLY
BARBOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2115-BAR) - AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data Sheet ........                                                ii-iii
Evaluation Summaryi..                                    ...  iv-v
I.  INTRODUCTION ..................................................    1
II.  PROTECT FORMULATION....                                              I
A.  Processing Through Board Approval.........................       1
B.  Objectives and Description of the Agricultural Component..    1
C. Cost and Financing of the Agricultural Component .........        2
III.  IWLEMENTATION ..... .*.....................................          2
A. Key Events.......... ......................................    2
B.  Activities Under the Agricultural Component...............    3
Research aad Extension...........................................    3
Institutional Strengthening  ..........4......................*..    4
Training ............... ............ ......... ..............................    5
C. Changes in Cost and Financing of the Agricultural
Component..........................    5
E. Disbursements..........................................          6
F.  ProcurementcevithCovenanes.............................         6
F.  Non-Compliance with Coveane n a n ts***,,o******                6
!V.  IMPACT OF THE AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT.*N....T.......                 6
A.  Agricultural Im.a                               c      t        6
B.  Institutional    I       mat7
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE.............. ...............****.*****.**** * ........    8
A.  The Borrower and Implementing Agency      e n cy..................    8
B. Consultants.***........ ...... s .........e..... .........     8
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE         ...................              ..  .      9
VII.  LESSONS LEARNED                    .........                         9
ANNEXES
1.   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
2.    Consultant Assignments
3.    Major Activities
4.    Overseas Training of Local Staff
5.    Local Training of Staff and Farmers
Map: IBRD No. 11044R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



/



BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2115-BAR) - AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
The Technical Assistance Project has two components: an agricul-
tural component (accounting for 70S of the total project cost and of the
Loan amount); and an energy component (accounting for 301 of the total
project cost and of the Loan amount). This Project Completion Report (PCR)
deals only with the agricultural component; a PCR on the energy component
will be issued separately.
The loan amount for the entire project was US$2.7 million, as
approved by the Board on March 25, 1982. The Loan Agreement is dated
July 22, 1982. Disbursements for the entire project were US$2.0 million;
US$0.7 million was cancelled, of which US$0.5 million was from the agricul-
tural component and US$0.2 trillion from the energy component. The final
disbursement of the loan took place on August 28, 1986.
The PCR was prepared by Agriculture Division A of the Latin
America and the CaribbeAn Regional Office.    It is based on the draft com-
pletion report prepared by the Borrower, and the progress reports and final
report of the consultants providing technical assistance under the project.
Information was also gathered during supervision of the agricultural com-
ponent and appraisal of the follow-up agricultural development project,
which was approved by the Board in February 1987. The President's Report
(No. P-3155-BAR) of February 16, 1982, the Loan Agreement, the minutes of
the Board presentation, correspondence with the Borrower and internal docu-
mentation on implementation of the agricultural component were also re-
viewed in preparing the PCR.
Following a review of the PCR by OED staff, the project was not
selected for audit and the PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on
October 7, 1987. No comments were received.



-il
"K-
-11;4
I>
-311.
11\



BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Loan 2115-BAR) - AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Actual or    Actual as a Z
KEY PROJECT DATA 1/                     Appraisal    Estimated    of Appraisal
-                     Estimate       Actuial        Estimate
Cost (US$ million)                        2.6             1.7              65
Loan Amount (US$ million)                  1.9            1.4              74
Date Board Approval                         -         03/25/82              -
Date of Effectiveness                      5/82        12/27/82
Closing date                            03/31/86      03/31/86
Rate of Return (X)                           n.a.        n.a.
Number of Beneficiaries                      n.a.        n.a.
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)             0.7    1.5   1.8   1.9   1.9
Actual (US$ million)                         0.2    0.2   0.6   1.4   1.4
Actual as % of Estimate                       29     13    33    74    74
Date of Final Disbursement                   August 28, 1986
Amount cancelled                            US$0.5 million on August 28, 1986
Principal repaid to (mo./day/yr.)           US$0.2 million on September 30, 1986
STAFF INPUT 2/
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  Total
Preparation                           1.0    -                          1.0
Appraisal                            14.0    -      -     -      -     14.0
Negotiations                          6.3        -     -         -      6.3
Supervision                           3.3    2.8   1.9   O.'   3.3   12.0
TOTAL                    24.6    2.8   1.9   0.7   3.3   33.3
1/  References to cost, loan amount and disbursements throughout the report refer
only to the agricultural component, unless otherwise specified.
2/  From Regional TRS.



iii -
BASIC DATA SHEET (Cont'd)
MWSSION OMA         Date      *. of    Staff-eks  Seialtions   Perfonmw                         Types of
M1ssion          (Mb/Yr)   Fwsax        in feld    Reprated a/ Rating b/    1ai c/   Pnmbl.Q 
identification       5/81
Preparation          7/81
Appraisal            n.a.
Supervision  1      08/83        1            0.5      a               --                 na.     … ---
91pervision  2      11/83        1            0.2       a               - -------.…-n     -- - - - --
Supervision  3      10/85        2            1.0      a               - -                na.    - - - - - -
ITAL Supervision                              1.7
OTHER PRKJC DATA
Borroer                               Barbados (Ministry of Finance and Planning)
Thecuting Aency                       Ministry of Agriulture, Food ad Fisheies
Fiscal year                           April 1 - Mrch 31
Naime of Qirrency (Abbreviation)    - Barbados dollar (a)S$)
Cirrency EKcage Rate:
Appraisal year average                   US$1.00 = BD6$ 2.00
Intervening years average                US$1.00   BS$ 2.00
Omnpletion year average                  US$1.00 = EDS$ 2.00
Follow-p Project:
Niame:                              Agricultural Developmnt Project
lian Aht:                           US$4.0 million
Board Approval:                     February 24, 1987
1/ a=agriculturalist; b=agricultural economist; c=financial analyst; d-ergineer; and e-credit specialist.
2/ 1= problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; and 32mjor problems.
3/ 1=improving; 2=stationary; and 3-deterioratirg.
4/ F6financial; Mhmanagerial; Thtecinical; P=plitical; and Oother.



- iv -
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2115-BAR) - AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The agricultural  component  of  the  Technical Arsistance Project
was designed to help the Government in achieving its goal of agricultural
diversification into non-sugar crops, by introducing new high value crops
and varieties, providing new technology to facilitate diversification, and
strengthening and upgrading the institutional system and support services
involved in research, extension  and marketing.    The component was to do
this by providing: 130 man-months of specialist services; vehicles, equip-
ment and materials for research, extension and marketing activities; and
formal and on-the-job training for  local  staff.   The component was to be
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fieheries (MAFF).
2.       The component cost was estimated  at  US$2.6 million, of which the
Bank was to filnance US$1.9 million or 100% of the foreign exchange cost.
The balance was to be provided by the Government. The actual component
cost was US$1.7 million, of which the Bank loan provided US$1.4 million;
US$0.5 million was cancelled.    Disbursements  were effected over 5 years,
one year longer than anticipated.
3.       Good progress has been made with the technical aspects of agricul-
tural diversification. The consultants developed an applied research-cum-
extension approach for vegetable farmers, in which the technical packages
were tested on farmers' land; farmers seem to be responsive to assistance
provided in this way.   The  technical  packages and extension efforts have
facilitated expansion of the urea under non-sugar crops and resulted in
higher crop yields and the introduction of new crops. Progress has been
made in extending the oniotn growing season to meet domestic demand year-
round and reduce onion imports, and in increasing the area under peanuts, a
crop that was then imported. The project focussed on innovative commercial
farmers, but many smaller, part-time farmers also benefited from the
research and demonstration work carried out on several government-owned
plantations.
4.       On the institutional side,  MAFF's research and extension services
have been strengthened, partly as a result of a merging of the two func-
tions. The positions of combined researchers/extensionists are now filled
by staff with the requisite education and ability, while less qualified
staff have assumed the statutory and regulatory functions previously
handled by  all  extension  workers.    Local  counterparts  have benefited
through on-the-job training of staff working on a daily basis with the
consultants; through a total of 60 st .f-weeks of overseas fellowships; and
through the many local seminars and field days arranged with the help of
the consultants.



5.       At the end of  the  consultants'  field assignments, more work was
still needed to consolidate these efforts, for instance completing work on
production packages foc peanuts and cotton; to expand the range of crops,
especially vegetables and flowers; and to disseminate the results more
widely. The Government extended the consultants' contract .fter funds
allocated for consultant services under Loan 2115-BAR had been exhausted.
Work on technical production packages is expe..ted to be completed, and
staff upgraded to the point where they can independently maintain the
momentum of diversification, under the agricultural development project
approved by the Board in Februa,y 1987.
6.       MAFF's performance was generally satisfactory.  However, delays in
the submission of disbursement requests to the Bank resulted in shortages
of funds, thus delaying procurement and implementation of some project
activities. Although the consultants made good progress with developing
technical packages, institutional strengthening and staff upgrading, the
marketing consultant placed too little emphasis on export marketing.
7.       Implementation of  the  agricultural  component proceeded smoothly
and significant Bank effort in supervision was probably not warranted.
Improvements might, howev.-r, have been achieved in some areas (such as
submission of disbursement requests and on-time provision of audit reports)
through more guidance from Bank staff in the field, particularly since this
was the first Bank project for the implementing agency. Moreover, a con-
tinuous dialogue with the Government through more regular supervision
missions might have led to earlier agreement on the components of the
follow-up project.



BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2115-BAR) - Agricultural Component
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Barbadian economy had undergone significant changes in the two
decades preceding approval of the technical assistance loan.  Agriculture,
once the mainstay of the economy, had experienced declining production, while
tourism. and manufacturing had been expanding rapidly.  Despite its decline,
agriculture in 1980 accounted for about 10% of GDP (compared to 71% from
services and 19% from industry), 9% of full-time employment, and about 30% of
the value of merchandise exports. Sugar has traditionally been the most
important crop and in 1980 accounted for about 85% of the cultivable area.
1.02      The goals of the Government's Five-Year Plan (1982-86) for agricul-
ture were to: (a) increese production, both to reduce payments for agricul-
tural imports and increase agricultural export earnings; (b) diversify
exports and reduce the traditional dependence on sugar; (c) improve farm
incomes; and (d) stabilize employment levels. The Government sought to
achieve these goals both through rehabilitation of the sugar subsector and
through emphasis on the non-sugar subsector. Growing conditions in Barbados
favor a variety of crops, but there were several constraints to expanding the
production of non-sugar crops, inter alia, poor coordination of institutions
in the sector, the weak extension service and the inadequate marketing
system.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
A. Processing Through Board Approval
2.01      The project combined components on energy conservation and
agricultural diversification. The agricultural component was identified by a
Bank mission in May 1981 and was prepared by the Government with Bank
assistance. Sufficient information was gathered during preparation so that
formal appraisal of the agricultural component was not required.
Negotiations took olace in Washington in January 1982 and the project was
presented to the Board in March 1982. A Board member commented that the cost
of consultant services 3eemed too high, but staff explained that the project
estimates were based on the actual cost of similar services in the Caribbean
area. A second question related to institutional arrangements for the energy
component.
B. Objectives and Description of the Agricultural Component
2.02      The objective of the agricultural component was to help the
Government in achieving its goal of agricultural diversification, by:
(a) introducing new high value crops and varieties, and achieving a
more efficient utilization of the resource base;
(b) strengthening and upgrading the institutional system and support
services, such as extension, research and marketing; and
(c) providing new technology to facilitate diversification into
non-sugar crops.



-2-
2.03      The agricultural component included the following:
(a) about 110 man-months of specialist 1/ services to (i) assist the
Government in reorganizing and strengthening the extension service,
(ii) help establish a system for providing farmers with technical
assistance in non-sugar crops, (iii) introduce efficient water
management systems, and (iv) identify alternative marketing
arrangements; and about 20 man-months of short-term specialist
services (for instance to look at the viability of other crops such
as fruit and peanuts);
(b) provision of vehicles, equipment and materials for carrying out
activities in research, extension and marketing; and
(c) formal and on-the-job training of local staff.
C. Cost and Financing of the Agricultural Component
2.04      The total cost of the component, including contingencies, was
estimated at US$2.6 million. The Bank loan was to finance the foreign
exchange cost of US$1.9 million, and the Government was to provide
US$0.7 million to cover the local cost. The cost of specialist services
accounted for the bulk of loan funds (US$1.2 million, excluding contingency).
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Key Events
3.01      The date of loan effectiveness, originally expected in May 1982,
was extended three times due to delays in obtaining parliamentary approval of
the negotiated proiect documents. The loan was declared effective on
December 27, 1982.
3.02      Partly due to the large number of consultants interested i n
submitting bids for the agricultural component alone (27), or joint bids for
the agricultural and energy conservation components (32), it took longer than
expected to hire consultants. The consultants for the agricultural component
were selected i.; March 1983, completed field assignments between May 1983 and
June 1985, and produced their final report by October 1985.
3.03      The only change to Schedule 1 (in November 1984) involved an
increase in the amounts allocated for vehicle maintenance costs and other
administrative expenses. Overspending in some categories became apparent
towards the end of the project, requiring minor adjustments to Schedule 1
after the last payment (See Annex 1).
3.04      The original loan Closing Date of March 31, 1986, was met.  The
date of final disbursement was August 28, 1986. Funds cancelled under the
agricultural component amounted to US$0.5 million.
1/    Specialists identified in the PR were:  a lead adviser, responsible for
organizing technical assistance activities and the institutional
aspects of the project; an extension methodology and organization
advisor; a vegetable extension specialist; an irrigation specialist;
and a marketing specialist.



-3-
B.  Activities Under the Agricultural Component
3.05      Twenty-two consultants provided services in a wide range of
speclalizations (Annex 2). The consultants provided a total of 142
man-months of services, about 9% more than estimated. Their most important
function was in the research and extension for non-sugar crops. A core group
of consultants provided expertise in extension methodology, vegetable
production, irrigation and marketing. Short-term assignments supplemented
the work of the core consultants or brought expertise in new areas such as
peanut production. In mid-1984, some unallocated consultants' time was used
to provide expettise in cotton production, dairy farm management and use of
farm machinery; work on fruit production was dropped because it duplicated
work by the European Development Fund (EDF) and the Inter-American Institute
for Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA). Also provided were vehicles,
equipment (for irrigation and production activities, as well as training) and
materials (mainly agricultural inputs for research and extension
activities). Activities under the agricultural component are summarized
below; further details are given in Annex 3.
Research and Extension
3.06      The consultants designed different approaches to extension for
different groups of farmers, so that limited resources could be concentrated
on the most promising producers. The target group, defined as small and
medium-scale commercial producers who farm full time, was estimated at
300-350 farmers; this group accounts for an estimated 90% of the cultivated
area. From this group, the consultants selected contact farmers with whom
they worked intensively in setting up demonstration plots and adopting
improved techniques for particular crops, as follows:
Vegetable production - 44 farmers
Cotton production      -  32 farmers
Dairy production       -  33 farmers
The consultants and 8 extension workers worked less closely with the
remainder of the target group, but still with a fairly high ratio of about
1:40.  Part-time farmers were reached through extensive means, such as mass
media and demonstrations.
3.07      Vegetable Production.  Seeds and other inputs were procured to
establish demonstration plots at the farm level for the dissemination of
improved production practices.  Priority was given to crops that have local
market possibilities, or export or import-substitution potential, and that
are suitable for the soil and environmental conditions in Barbados.  These
include tomatoes, onions, cucumber, sweet pepper, carrots, string beans,
beets, cabbage, sweet corn and watermelon.
3.08      Peanut Production.  A central demonstration plot was established to
develop a technical production package and demonstrate cultural practices.
Seeds, herbicides, fertilizers and other inputs were purchased to establish
the plot. Four field trials undertook testing of different varieties and the
effectiveness of pesticide and herbicide applications.



- 4 -
3.09      Irrigation and Fertilization.  The soil/water laboratory was
strengthened to enable it to carry out soil, water and fertilizer analyses
needed to establish optimal irrigation and fertilization practices.
Irrigation/fertilization field trials were set up for various crops.
Planning of on-farm irrigation systems involved both the traditional
sprinkler system and drip irrigation. Drip irrigation equipment was
purchased to set up twelve 0.25 acre demonstration plots and five
experimental plots. Training activities have involved a soil analysis
workshop, as well as a field day to demonstrate the success in growing
vegetables with drip irrigation.
3.10      Information and Training.  The consultants helped to organize
training and extension activities with the Information Unit of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF). The Unit was moved to a new
location and has been strengthened by the provision of duplication,
photographic and video equipment and materials. Incremental staff, including
an Information Officer, Photographer and Video Cameraman, were recruited.
Staff have received on-the-job training in the operation, maintenance and
repair of the Unit's equipment. The Information Unit has been involved in
organizing field days, workshops and seminars; producing written materials
and developing audiovisual programs; and providing equipment for training
courses.
3.11      Cotton.  Field trials were set up for testing different varieties
and an observation plot established for the cultivation of cotton on a
commercial basis. The costs of production and the crop's profitability were
estimated. Cotton seed was supplied to farmers.
3.12      Livestock Production.  Several improvements were made in the
management of farms assisted under the project (e.g. data collection to
improve culling of unproductive animals, and improvements in the housing
facilities for the herd). Recommendations were made on the utilization of
local forages and improved methods introduced for forage conservation and
storage for use in the dry season.
Marketing
3.13      Based on a review of the marketing system and facilities, the
marketing consultant made recommendations to improve local retail markets and
strengthen the organization of the marketing system. This involved
introducing field boxes for harvesting, producing a booklet on crop grading,
input in the audiovisual program on post-harvest handling, and reorganization
of the marketing agency (the Agricultural Trading Company, ATCO). Purchases
included a truck with cooler, field boxes, loading platform and equipment for
ATCO's retail facilities.
Institutional Strengthening
3.14      The consultants evaluated MAFF's research and extension services
and made recommendations for improvement. This involved a merging of the
research and extension functions, and freeing up the best qualified extension
personnel from routine statutory/regulatory functions. The structure and
operations of the marketing institutions were also reviewed and domestic
marketing operations strengthened as discussed above. Finally, the
consultants helped design the formal training program and provided informal
training for the personnel of agricultural institutions (discussed below).



-5-
Trainirg
3.15      Training was regarded as a key activity, complementing the consul-
tants' work in research/extension and institutional strengthening. Training
was provided in several ways both to counterpart staff and local farmers.
On-the-job training was given to a total of 10 counterpart staff who worked
with the consultants on a daily basis, 8 on crop extension and one each on
irrigation systems and on use of farm machinery. Seventeen have also
benefitted from short-term training in Israel, for a total of over 60 staff-
weeks (Annex 4).
3.16      In addition, an average of 15-20 agricultural and extension
officers and 25-30 farmers, including managers of BADC farms,2/ participated
in 14 seminars and workshops. These covered mainly the production of cotton,
peanuts, onions and other vegetables (Annex 5). Training in the use of agri-
cultural machinery was also given to a total of 74 participants, including
tractor operators, farm machinery operators and mechanics, and farm managers.
3.17      In conclusion, while good progress was made in agricultural
diversification under Loan 2115-BAR, much remained to be done. As a result
of the project, the research and extension functions under MAFF had been
reorganized and strengthened, MAFF staff had been upgraded, and production
techniques for growing selected non-sugar crops had been refined and
disseminated to some producers. More work was still needed, however, in
several areas, such as pest control measures and cultivation techniques for
cotton; harvesting techniques for peanuts; research on some vegetables and
flowers; estimates of costs and returns based on actual farm-level data;
irrigation schedules for different crops and the application of fertilizers
with drip irrigation systems; further training of farmers and agricultural
officers in the operation and maintenance of farm machinery; and developing
export markets. The Government retained the consultants following completion
of the Technical Assistance Project (para. 5.05) and requested the Bank's
support for an agricultural development project, which was approved by the
Board in February 1987.
C. Changes in Cost and Financing of the Agricultural Component
3.18      The actual component cost was US$1.7 million, about 35% less than
the appraisal estimate; US$0.5 million of the loan was cancelled on
August 28, 1986. The Government's contribution was US$0.3 million, compared
to the estimate of US$0.7 million. The greatest shortfall (41% disbursed)
was in the subprojects category (see Annex 1, footnote Ja). This was partly
due to the delays in implementation of two of the subprojects (irrigation,
and information and training) because of problems with equipment procurement.
2/   The Barbados Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) is a state
corporation, which owned 1,800 ha, or about 8% of the cultivated area,
in 1985. Its land has been used to conduct much of the crop research
and irrigation system trials. Many of the demonstration plots are on
BADC farms.



6
D. Disbursements
3.19      Disbursements were significantly slower than expected at appraisal
(see Basic Data Sheet). The Government paid directly for services or goods
procured, thereafter requesting reimbursement from the Bank.  However, delays
occurred in submitting requeqts tor reimbursement becausc: (a) responsibility
for the accounting function was originally assigned to the Ministry of
Finance and Planning (MOFP), which tended to regard it as an extra task of
low priority; and (b) after this responsibility was transferred to MAFF, weak
staffing of the Accounting Department led to a backlog of submissions.
E. Procurement
3.20      Procurement was through competitive bidding following local proce-
dures. This was appropriate because the procurement involved no major
contracts, but was, rather, limited to small purchases of equipment, vehicles
and inputs for research and demonstration activities. Some delays in
receiving equipment occurred because the suppliers did not regularly trade in
the items to be procured or they were out of stock. In addition, delays
occurred because of the shortage of futnds for purchasing equipment
(para. 5.02).
F. Non-Compliance with Covenants
3.21      The Borrower complied with the covenants in the Loan Agreement
relating to the agricultural component, except that audit reports were
received late. There are no audit reports outstanding.
IV. IMPACT OF THE AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
A. Agricultural Impact
4.01      It is too soon to measure fully the impact of the agricultural
component, partly because official sectoral data have not yet been compiled,
and partly because the benefits of the technical assistance provided have not
yet spread to all producers. Moreover, work on some crops (such as white
potatoes and flowers) began late in the project and more work is needed to
complete field trials and wider dissemination. Preliminary data collected by
the consultants and MAFF do, nonetheless, indicate that the technical pack-
ages and extension efforts have already contributed to an expansion of the
area under non-sugar crops, and resulted in higher crop yields and the intro-
duction of new crops. An attempt has been made to indicate the extent and
impact of these changes. No targets were set or benefits quantified in the
President's Report with which these achievements can be compared.
4.02      The area planted to non-sugar crops has increased over the project
period, as shown below. Improved technical packages and a more Intensive
extension effort have contributed to these increases. For cotton and
peanuts, the consultants estimate that virtually the whole area under produc-
tion is covered by the extension program; for onions, 80-90% of the :i-en: and
for vegetables, somewhat less.



-7-
1982      1983        1984      1985
Root CL;J,                                               1k
Pen.
('  .'! Lw.-,a .fi
Ve g Ct I;n1>        2,1Im,      ::18^                2, 31c
Total            2,701      3,004      3,065      3,447
4.03       It is estimated that the average yields of some crops obtained
under traditional agricultural practices can be doubled using the improved
production packages developed under the project atnd promoted through
extension.  Actual yields of some vegetables have risen as follows:
Under Tradit. Pract.   With Extension
… - - - - - - - tons/ha        …
T'omatoes             7                       20
I  '.ions            15                      30
Cucumber              15                      35
String Beans          7                       15
Watermelon            10                      20
4.04      The country now has the potentlal to increase its exports of fresh
vegetables.  Exports of fresh vegetables have, in fact, already increased,
from 60 tons in 1981 to 100 tons in 1983/84 and 300 tons in 1985. Progress
has also been made in extending the onion grow.ing season to meet domestic
demand year-round and reduce (and eventually eliminate) onion imports.
Similarly, Barbados should be able to reduce its imports of peanuts. The
area planted to cotton has increased significantly from zero in the early
1980s and is expected eventually to more than double the 1985 figure; cotton
should become a significant earner of foreign exchange (the local Sea Island
Cotton has an excellent market in Japan).
B. Institutional Impact
4.05      The quality and effectiveness of extension have improved as a
result of the project. One improvement has come through the merging of
MAFF's research and extension functions and upgrading of staff in combined
researcher/extensionist positions. The best qualifiLd staff were selected to
fill these positions, while the statut-ory/regulatory functions previously
handled by all extension workers have been transferred to less qualified
staff.  Farm visits are now more frequent and regular than in the past.
Moreover, staff are better qualified as a result of formal and informal
training.
4.06      The consultants have also introduced a new applied
research-cum-extension approach to extension for vegetable farmers, in which
the technical packages were tested on  are    ]an, with the farmers
participating in the trials.  Farmers s5e- to have been receptive to
techlnical advice provided in this manner.



-8-
4.07      The marketing consultant focused on improvements in the domestic
marketing operations and infrastructure of ATCO. He did little to identify
and develop alternative markets for Barbados' non-sugar crops. As a result,
although exports of fresh vegetables have increased, amounts remain small.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. The Borrower and Implementing Agency
5.01      MAFF's performance in implementation of the agricultural component
has been satisfactory. The Chief Agricultural Officer (CAO) oversaw the
activities in research, extension and training, involving a large number of
consultants, local staff and farmers. The consultants' team leader was
mainly responsible for coordinating specialist assignments, as agreed with
the CAO.
5.02      The Borrower's performance was less satisfactory in procurement and
submission of disbursement requests to the Bank. After settling invoices
with suppliers, the Borrower was slow to submit requests for reimbursement
to the Bank. This occurred initially because the task of processing the
documentation was assigned low priority when it was the responsibility of
MOFP, and was then inefficiently handled when it became the responsibility of
the MAFF (para. 3.19). The non-submission of disbursement requests tied up
MAFF's capital budget, which delayed equipment purchases and slowed
implementation of the irrigation and information and training activities.
B. Consultants
5.03      The consultants were selected by the Borrower because their
approach to extension seeks to motivate farmers by focusing on work in their
fields and because they are good at motivating local staff in the extension
process. The consultants have done well in both these aspects of their
work. The agricultural impact of their work (para. 4.02-04) indicates the
technical successes of their inputs. The institutional changes suggested by
them have also contributed to a more efficient extension service with better
trained staff (para. 4.05-06).
5.04      Four areas have been identified in which the consultants might have
been more effective. First, all overseas training was given in Israel, but
particularly for production-oriented training, locations with environmental
conditions closer to those of Barbados could have been selected. Second,
while progress has been made in the technical aspects of production and
improved support in research and extension, the results in marketing have
been limited. The focus was on domestic marketing (through ATCO) rather than
on identifying and developing overseas markets for the increased production
of fresh produce. Third, although the consultants provided the Bank with
much information on implementation (monthly progress reports, trimestrial and
semestrial summaries and a final report, as well as separate reports on
some activities), the usefulness of these reports for monitoring was limited
because they tended to be descriptive of activities undertaken by the
consultants, rather than focusing on overall progress and potential problem
areas; moreover, the frequency of reports resulted in some duplication of
material. On the other hand, there is no indication that the Bank ever



-9-
discussed reporting requirements with the consultants. Finally, although the
consultants were hired to take a broad look at possibilities for diversifica-
tion, requiring a multi-disciplinary approach, the number of consultants
hired under the project may have been excessive in terms of specializations
covered and the absorptive capacity of local staff.
5.05      On balance, good progress was made on the production aspects of
diversification. The Government was satisfied with the work of the consul-
tants and extended their contract by 44 man-months, using its own resources
after funds allocated for this purpose under the Bank loan were exhausted.
VI.  BANK PERFOR4ANCE
6.01      The Bank's performance was satisfactory, though its involvement in
supervision was minimal. Initially, implementation of the agricultural
component proceeded smoothly because those that identified the component
continued to be involved in, for example, selection of consultants and
definition of activities. Thereafter, less attention was paid to field
supervision, which was only resumed in September 1985 when the consultants'
work was almost completed.
VII. LESSONS LEARNED
7.01      Although implementation of the project proceeded smoothly and
significant Bank effort in supervision was probably not warranted, Bank staff
could, perhaps, have improved some aspects of implementation. More regular
Bank supervision missions might have encouraged the marketing consultant to
place greater emphasis on the development of excport markets for non-sugar
crops. Problems such as slow disbursements and tardy audit report submission
might have been avoided if the Bank had played a more active role. This is
especially true since the agricultural component was the Bank's first
activity in the sector and MAFF could have benefitted from more guidance from
Bank staff. Finally, a continuous dialogue vith the Government through more
regular supervision missions might have led to earlier agreement on the
components of a follow-up project and prevented a break of over a year in
Bank support for the Government's diversification program.
7.02      The agricultural development project approved by the Board in
February 1987 has been designed to improve on performance under
Loan 2115-BAR.  First, during negotiations, the alternative method of direct
payment for project goods and services was explained to the government
delegation by the Bank's negotiiating team.  A revolving fund will be set up
to facilitate payments and reimbursement, thereby avoiding delays and the
costs these entail for the Borrower. Second, the SAR contains a tentative
training program, including suggested locations for overseas training, and a
narrower range of consultant services (some aspects of diversification, such
as livestock and fruit production, are being supported by other aid
agencies). Third, greater emphasis will be placed on promotion of export
markets. Finally, more attention will be paid to monitoring project
progress, both through Bank supervision and through a more
statistics-oriented presentation of progress reports (to be discussed with
the first supervision mission), and to evaluation of the project impact based
on actual farm level data.



- 10 -
u I
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Loan 2115-BAR) - AGRICULTURAL CGKPONENT
PROJECT CGMPLETION REPORT
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Loan Agreement   Revised
Schedule I       Schedule I   Actual         Actual/
7/22/82          11/9/84       Disbursement  Allocated
(US$)                         %
v ricultural Diversification
1-A  Consultant and Specialist Services       1,160,000       1,160,000    1,176,243        101
1-B  Veh'cles                                    51,000          51,000        27,929        56
1-C  Vehicle Maintenance Costs and
Other Aiministrative Expenses              5,000          40,000       53,065        133
1-D  Pilot Subprojects a/                       320,000         320,000       130,600        41
I-E  Training and Fellowships                    60,000          60,000       51,335         86
Subtotal                              1,596,000       1,631,000    1,439,172         88
Unallocated  b/                                 304,000         269,000
Cancelled                                                                     460,828
TOTAL                                 1,900,000       1,900,000    1,9g0,000
a/ Five major activities under the project were formally identified as subprojects: vegetable
production, peanut production, irrigation and fertilization, information and training, and
marketing.
b/ Estimated amount for agricultural component.



- 11 -
ANNEX 2
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Loan 2115-BAR) - AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Consultant Assigtments
Medium-Term Assignments                                         Man-months
-   Team Leader & Extension Specialist                         24
-   Vegetable Production Specialist                            22
-   Irrigation Specialist                                      20
-   Marketing Specialist                                       18
-   Farm Machinery Specialist                                  12
-   Cotton Production Specialist                                7
-   Dairy Farm Management Specialist                           12
Subtotal                                            115
Short-Term Assignments
-   Rural Development Planner                                   3.5
-   Macro Economist                                             1.3
I  -   Senior Fruit Production Specialist                       0.8
-   Hydrologist                                                 1.5
-   Senior Peanuts Production Specialist                        2.1
-   Peanuts Production Specialist                               1.1
-   Senior Markering Specialist                                 1.6
-   Senior Animal Production Specialist                         1.3
I  -   Senior Animal Economist                                  1.2
-   Senior Research Organization Specialist                     0.9
-   Soil Laboratory Organization Specialist                     1.1
-   Senior Water Resource Specialist                            1.7
-   Farm Machinery Instructors (2 for 1.9 man-months)           3.8
-   Silage Production Specialist                                1.5
Subtotal                                            23.4
Total                                               138.4 S/
a/ Total contract, for 142 man-months, includes some services provided in
consultants' home country.



- 12 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2115-BAR) - AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Major Activities
Strengthening the Extension Service
1.        A survey of the agricultural extension and research services was
carried out.
2.        An in-service training program was designed to upgrade extension
officers and bring their technical knowledge up-to-date.
3.        A central demonstration plot for peanut production and demonstra-
tion plots on selected small and medium size farms were set up to disseminate
production technology.
4.        Senior agricultural officers were assigned to work in applied
research and extension in vegetable and cotton production to improve the pro-
fessional level of the extension service.
Information and Training
1.        The quality of the agricultural radio programs was improved; pro-
grams prepared on, e.g. varieties of crops, use of chemicals, use of fertili-
zer, irrigation recommendations, land preparation, pests and diseases,
marketing opportunities, quality and grading of agricultural produce; and
information leaflets distributed to farmers.
2.        MAFF's Information Unit was improved through the acquisition of new
equipment and establishing on-the-job training programs for information offi-
cers. The unit became involved in the preparation of written materials for
farmers on such subjects as the production of onions, tomatoes, and vegeta-
bles and cotton pest identification, and audio-visual programs on such
subjects as silage production and utilization, grading of vegetables and
post-harvest handling of vegetables.
3.        Workshops and seminars were organized (Annex 5).
Vegetable Production
1.        New production techniques were tested and introduced for vegetable
production through: (a) planning crop rotations for irrigated fields in
order to enhance soil fertility, prevent the build-up of pests, weeds ead
soil-borne diseases, ensure a balanced work program throughout the year and



-13 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
reduce periods of peak demand for labor and irrigation water; (b) estimating
average yields, costs and inputs for selected vegetables to facilitate better
farm planning and provide benchmarks for comparison by farmers; (c) planning
a rainfed vegetable program by assisting farmers in planting vegetables
(tomatoes, cabbage, okra, watermelon, cucumber, beets, beans and onions) as
an interim crop until sugarcane is replanted; and (d) providing farmers with
recommendations on improved agronomic practices for selected vegetable crops,
including improved seed bed preparation; optimum amount, type and timing of
fertilizers to be used; optimum quantity and frequency of irrigation; estab-
lishment of nurseries; selection of high yielding varieties; optimum spacing
and plant populations; improved plant protection, weed control and optimum
planting dates.
2.        Demonstration plots were set up on farmers' land in different loca-
tions to validate the improved crop production practices.
3.        Written recommendations were prepared on onion, tomato, eggplant,
cucumber and cabbage cultivation, and pamphlets on the efficient utilization
of nitrogen, phosphate and potassium were published and distributed to
farmers. A leaflet on soil preparation, methods of planting, spacing, ferti-
lization, irrigation, weed and insect control and sanitation was prepared as
a special guide to small farmers and gardeners.
4.        Field trials were conducted for tomatoes, onions, sweet peppers,
stringbeans, cucumber, watermelons, white potatoes and ginger lilies, with a
focus on studying the adaptability of new crops and varieties.
5.        Strengthening the extension services for crop production was pur-
sued through in-service training of extension staff (Annex 4), on-the-job
training by worling with the vegetable specialist in the field, visits to
farms, the setting up of on-farm research activities, and the preparation of
written material for dissemination to farmers.
Peanut Production
1.        A central demonstration plot was set up jointly by MAFF, BADC and
the consultants and used for field days.
2.        The plot was used to in roduce new techniques for mechanized
cultivation; test new imported anc local seed; determine appropriate
herbicide applications; test peanuts' response to fertilizers; and
mechanize harvesting and drying operations.
3.        An estimate was made of production costs.
4.        As a result of the trials, recommendations were made to farmers on:
suitable soil conditions, optimal timing and application of fertilizer,
selection of herbicides and pesticides, plant density and spacing, selection
of varieties, planning of crop rotations, criteria for optimal harvesting,
and seed storage and treatment.



ANEX  3
Page _3 "of 5
Cotton Production
1.         Field trials wcrQ. .;.t up tiJr tcstirg varicties, fertilizers, growth
reguLators .nd herhiridt-,.
2.         An observation plor w W    ost,inlished  tor the cultivation of cotton
on a commercial basis, and the costs of production of rhe crop and Its
profitability were estimarttd.
3.         Cotton seed wah iASi iticd tc -rmersr,
4.         Work was carrit *uit Sr o     (t  cd pueparation and gterminatrion, and
information was disseminat.1 t-ibr-oigh     -inars, field days, and tile production
of written material.
Irrigation and Fertilization
1.         A survey of water rnu,6urcu:5 wats carried out.
2.         Demonstration plots  .or dr l; irrigation systems were set up to
facilitate th.e disserrAn&ati.on of t'i -'r i.rigation techniques to extension
workers and farmers, and. io atppl  feOillizera,  Demonstration plots included,
in particular, areas planted to sweet peppers and other vegetables for
export, and cotton,
3.         The soil/water laborati)cy Wi4s strengthened to enable it to carry
out soil, water and feruilizer aaal.7ses needed to establish optimal irriga-
tion and fertilization practies. Standard procedures were developed for the
reception of samples aad streamlining and standardizing the process of analy-
sis.  A system of recording and analy4ing data was devised.  Similarly, sys-
tems of ordering, storing and mairintaining equipment and chemicals were
suggested and reconrnendat.ors made oti st atfing requirements.  A soil analysis
workshop aimed at demroastratl_ng proceduces for soil sampling and labelling,
providing farmers with hapsli knovriedg,e on clhe interpretation of soil labora-
tory results, and 7aomaringl chF  coqt-i otf ivrirtos fertilizIers.
4.        tApplied rcse:irch tieli t ials ror itrigation and ferttlization were
set up to test various fertlgartiuu mcthods and to demoostrate the results to
farmers, and a sysi-em of aDalyaing        O1d eva1uating the results developed.
Agricultural MarkLeting
1.         A study was made ol thHe mirkcitin6 system. and constraints Oil the
sysrem identified and recommen.dations made.
2.         The consultant assisted in drawing up a plan for che export of
agricultural produce, which included recommended varieties, total acreage,
the quantity to be exported and prices expected; in the preparation of
planting plans, harvesting and slipment schedules for sweet peppers and egg
plants; and in looking at the potential of other export crops such as onions,
string beans, tomatoes, cabbage, cucumbers, watermelons, carrots, beets,
finger squash and sweet corn.



- 15 -
Page 4 of 5
3.        Specific activities aimed at reorganizing and improving the
wholesale and retail activities of ATCO included:
-    provision of a cooling truck.
-    purchase of display stands.
-    purchase of plastic field boxes.
-    renovation of the retail building and upgrading of parking
facilities.
-    purchase of adequate packing materials for domestic and export
crops.
-    publication and distribution of a booklet on acceptable standards
for crops.
4.        A public market survey was carried out to assess the public sarket,
looking at the necessity for repairing and renovating the markets, and their
scope and capabilities; to estimate the budget requirements in order to
implement recommendations; and to design a time-table for implementation.
Agricultural Machinery
1.        Surveys were carried out to: (a) make an inventory of existing farm
machinery and (b) assess use of machinery at BADC farms, and make recommenda-
tions for improvements.
2.        The consultant helped MAFF in determining the tools and equipment
needed for a new workshop to be established at a BADC plantation and to
improve the recotd-keeping system at MAFF's Engineering Unit.
3.        Catalogues of spare-parts and operators manuals for the various
tractors owned by BADC were acquired, and practical assistance 3iven in
repairing machinery owned by the Central Livestock Station.
4.        MAFF workshops were reorganized and upgraded by nominating the
senior mechanic as a counterpart to the farm machinery consultant, and
designing a program of upgrading within Barbados and overseas. MAFF was
advised on centralizing activities regarding acquisition, maintenance and
repairs of agricultural machinery.
5.        Training programs for machine operators, mechanics and managers
were planned and organized. The subjects studied included preventive mainte-
nance of machinery, the design and operation of farm tractors, adjusting and
operating agricultural implements, safety procedures in operating equipment,
record keeping and basic tractor repair.
Livestock Production
1.        Several improvements were made in the management of farms assisted
under the project. Inter alia, systems for weighing milk and recording data
were developed; advice was given to farmers on calculating production of milk
per lactation; data were collected to improve culling of unproductive animals
and breeding of high potential cows and bulls; a system of eartagging was



-16 -                        ANNZX 3
Pago S of 5
introduced to fcimlitate identification of animals; and improvements were
made in the housing and drinking facilities for the herd.
2.        With regard to forage production, recomendations were sade on the
utilization of local forages such as sugarcane tops, *ourgrass and vegetable
and field crop by-products; improved grasses such as pangola were grown on a
trial basis; the need for high quality forage was addressed through the
introduction of corn and sorghum for forage, improved grasses and legumes;
and improved methods were introduced for forage conservation and storage for
use in the dry season.



- 17 -                              AM  4
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Loan 2115-BAR) - Agricultural Coqponent
PROJECT (CEPLETION MZPORT
Overses Training of Local Staff
Total
Program                      Content                           #Parts.  Das   Man-days
Soil               Organization of laboratory                     1        29        29
Laboratory        Recording, processing and storage of data      1        25        25
Methods of checking water analysis
Treatment of samples in the laboratory
Methods of reducing salinity
Irrigation         Visits to irrigation companies supplying       1        14        14
Equipment           equipment
Denmnstfation of different equipment
Introduction to assembly and maintenance
of equipment
International      Lectures on:                                   1        60        60
Course on         - Water resources for irrigation
Irrigation        - Soil/plant water relationship
(Organized by     - Agricultural meteorology
the Volcani       - Salinity in irrigation
Institute,        - Fertilization
Israel)           - Crop requirements
- Irrigation technology
- Economic and energy aspects
Vegetable          Visits to:                                     4        24        96
Production        - Growing areas
- Seed producing farms
- Field service laboratories
Lectures on extension management & methods
Visit to Volcani Research Inst.
Meeting with personnel of the Plant
Protection Dept., Ministry of Agric.
Dairy              Visits to:                                    3        20        60
Husbandry         - Dairy fanms
- Artificial Insemination Center
- Volcani Institute
- Institute of Veterinary Services
- Concentrate Feeding Plant
Lecture on computerized feeding practices
Lectures on extension methods



-18-                           AMEN     4
ge 2of 2
Total
Program                     Cbntent                            #Parts.   pa"    Man-day
Cotton             Field vists in various regions to see:         2        23        46
Production        - Seed bed preparation
- Irrigation equipment
- Seeder equipment
- Extension service
- Herbicide spraying
- Laboratory for soil fertility
- Varietal research at Volcani Research Institute
- Irrigation (sprinkler & drip methods)
- Irrigation methods in an arid zone
- Harvesting equipment
- Cotton gin
- Fibre control centre
Peanuts            Seed bed preparation                           2        23        46
Cultivation       Irrigation equipment
Seeder & bacterization equipment
Visits to various regions to see:
- Extension Service
- =erbicide spraying methods
- Laboratory for soil fertility
- Irrigation (sprinkler and drip methods)
- Irrigation methods in an arid zone
- iron deficiency
- Harvesting equipment
- Grading and packing centre
Visit to Volcani Res. Inst. to see research
in varieties, bacterization, weeds.
Farm               Visits to:                                     2       32         64
Machinery          - Volcani Research Institute
- Regional Agricultural Machinery Station
- Institute of Engineering
- Agricultural implements centres
- Farm machinery factories
- Spare parts stores
Discussions with extension agents of the
Agricultural Mechanization Department
Field test of agricultural equipment
Practical work in an agricultural workshop
at a settlement
Total        17                 440



-~~~~~~~~                                                                       -
i  i  X           C              S       _      i                     e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiI
I g 1eg i |111, 1 WI t 9 M * 1S.  M~ 9  
li Bs [ W [ t~~~~~~~~~~I                                            il l h j -         g.              w    X
X~11 XX    W



MAP SECTION
I
I
I



BRD-11044R
- . -                           6FF1RUARY I9
ST  L U C Y
TTR
*        )~~~ 
an'  S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;EO -iO'' a a''    '.
\  _- I                                               '-  /  ,. 1 fl rcOfrtAre  ZR
l  \ -   '.'  /  , .,  \,            w ;< 'Z';>~~~~~~o '.- '   .,, .9 r,tcs 
2    t eer ,  o , ~-', )                    4  ,/    
rH~~~'~~e~~            U LLAGE 
cZ  -              2tf    t-                                           SI      *     ove
iC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Hn RY§                  I ;  S T
BARBA~DOS,A, C
AGRICULTURAL LAND USE PLAN
H - ' - ' / '--~-                          - -- - - ' -'   /t- 9'f  j'#   Qt- Ef>r
/ /    C F1 R I S T   X -- -~~~V   'j    lec
. C   .4'% -C .  ;           .                   ..
-.~~~ 0                                    4



