Document of                      FILE  C vT"?
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3155-BAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO BARBADOS
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
February 16, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit = Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1.00 = BDS$2.00
BDS$1.00  =   US$0.50
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPE      =  Barbados Association of Professional Engineers
BAS       =  Barbados Agricultural Society
BDB       =  Barbados Development Bank
BHA       =  Barbados Hotel Association
BIA       = Barbados Institute of Architects
BIMAP     =  Barbados Institute of Management and
Productivity
BLPC      =  Barbados Light and Power Company Limited
BMA       =  Barbados Manufacturers Association
BMC       =  Barbados Marketing Corporation
BNSI      = Barbados National Standards Institute
ECU       =  Energy Conservation Unit
MOA       = Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer
Affairs
MFP       = Ministry of Finance and Planning
NCST      =  National Council for Science and Technology
f



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Barbados
Amount:                US$2.7 million equivalent
Terms:                 Payable in 15 years, including a grace
period of 3 years, at 11.6% interest per
annum.
Project Description:  The proposed project would strengthen the
country's institutional capabilities and
thereby assist its efforts to diversify and
increase agricultural production, as well
as to formulate, promote and implement an
energy conservation program. The project
would also contribute to the identification
and preparation of further projects for
possible external financing. The project
would have two components, an agriculture
diversification component and an energy
conservation component. The project
consists of the following:
Agricultural Diversification
Advising the Government on policies and
extension methodology, vegetable extension,
irrigation, and marketing. The services of
about five consultants for medium-term
assignments of one to two and a half years
(about 110 man-months in total) and about
20 man-months in total for short-term
tasks, would be required; the provision of
local counterparts; preparation and
implementation of small-scale pilot
projects; and fellowships.
Energy Conservation
Advising and assisting the Government on
the establishment of an energy conservation
planning and implementing organization,
energy conservation programs, project
preparation, and training. The services of
about 40 man-months of consultants'
services would be required. The project
includes, the provision of specialized
equipment and library materials.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
There are no unusual risks associated with
the project, except for the normal hazards
involved in recruiting suitable experts and
obtaining effective coordination with local
staff.
Local   Foreign      Total
-(US$ 0OOO) …
Estimated Cost:
Agriculture
Consultant/Advisor Services    200.0    1,160.0    1,360.0
Local Staff                       80.0          -         80.0
Vehicles                            -         51.0        51.0
Maintenance and Local
Administrative Expenses         63.0         5.0       68.0
Small-scale Projects             330.0       320.0      650.0
Training and Fellowships          10.0        60.0        70.0
683.0    1,596.0    2,279.0
Energy Conservation
Consultant/Advisor Services       60.0       420.0      480.0
Local Staff                      112.0          -        112.0
Vehicles                            -         26.0        26.0
Maintenance and Local
Administrative Expenses         55.0         5.0       60.0
Training                            -        100.0       100.0
Equipment/Library                   -        150.0       150.0
227.0      701.0       928.0
Total Base Cost               910.0    2,297.0    3,207.0
Contingencies:
Physical                        66.0       168.0      234.0
Price                           85.0       220.0      305.0
Total Project Cost        1,061.0    2,685.0    3,746.0
(the Project is exempt
from duties and taxes)
Financing Plan:                       (US$'000)
Government                   1,061.0          -     1,061.0
Bank                              -     2,685.0    2,685.0
Total                    1,061.0    2,685.0    3,746.0
Estimated Disbursements:                   (US$'000)
Bank                 FY83        FY84        FY85     FY86
Annual              1,000.0    1,200.0       400.0    100.0
Cumulative          1,000.0    2,200.0   2,600.0  2,700.0
Rate of Return:    n/a
Staff Appraisal Report:    There is no separate Appraisal Report.
Map: IBRD 11044-R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO BARBADOS
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$2.7 million to Barbados to help finance a
technical assistance project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Barbados"
(No. 3487-BAR), dated June 10, 1981, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 19, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Barbados, the most easterly of the Caribbean islands, is one of
the most densely populated countries in the world. Its total area of 166
square miles and-population of 248,000 give it a density of 1,494 per
square mile.
4.        Barbados has become over the last two decades or so, one of the
more developed countries in the Commonwealth Caribbean. Economic
development has been achieved with social and political stability and has
also led to improved social conditions. Barbados' income distribution is
relatively equitable, and education and health facilities are relatively
good. A shortage of adequate housing, however, affects the lower income
groups. Barbados has a long history of constitutional government. The
country attained self-government in 1961, and became independent in 1966.
Social and political stability, and well conceived and implemented
governmental policies, have fostered an excellent investment climate.
5.        Barbados' population is highly motivated and well educated, and
its economic infrastructure well developed. Its natural resources are,
however, limited. Soil, topography, and rainfall are favorable for
cultivating sugar cane which has become the most important agricultural
crop. No metallic mineral deposits are known, but pockets of petroleum and
natural gas now supply a modest fraction of consumption. In the last
couple of decades, the country's most valuable natural resources have been
its beautiful beaches and mild weather, which presently attract about
370,000 tourists annually.
6.        The structure of the Barbadian economy has undergone significant
changes in the last 20 years. Agriculture, once the mainstay of the
economy, has experienced declining production levels although, in the last
few years, some gains have taken place in the production of sugar, poultry
and vegetables. In contrast, tourism (in the 1960s and 1970s) and export



- 2 -
manufacturing (in the 1970s) have expanded rapidly. Presently, tourism and
manufacturing account for 26% of GDP as compared with 17% in 1970, while
agriculture accounts for only 10% of GDP as compared with 14% in 1970.
Recent Economic Developments (1976-80)
7.        The economy of Barbados expanded rapidly during 1976-79.  The
partial economic recovery of the OECD countries, increased levels of
private investment in tourism and manufacturing, and a recovered sugar
production led to a strong export performance and contributed to annual
rates of GDP growth averaging close to 6% per year.  This rapid economic
growth reduced the unemployment rate from an estimated 25% in 1975 to about
13% in 1979. Given the openness of the economy, its fixed exchange rate,
and moderate wage settlements, inflation during this period generally
followed international trends.
8.        Overall demand management was fairly good during this period,
and, consequently, economic and export growth led to a strengthening of
public finances and of the balance of payments. For example, during
1978-79, public sector savings were sufficient to finance 85% of public
investment, and the current account deficit of the balance of payments was
on average below 3% of GDP. Relatively large amounts of external private
capital inflows and moderate amounts of external borrowing by the public
sector were sufficient during those years, to finance the current account
deficits and to provide for moderate increases in international reserves.
Gross official reserves were equivalent at the end of 1979 to 2.2 months or
retained merchandise imports.
9.        Economic growth continued in 1980 but, as tourist arrivals
stagnated, the economy began to experience the adverse impact of sluggish
economic growth in the OECD countries. Also excess demand pressures began
to develop in some sectors of the economy, thus contributing to some
acceleration of domestic inflation and to some increase in real wages.
10.       As the implementation of the four-year (FY79/80-82/83) investment
program gained momentum, capital expenditures increased significantly,
while public sector savings suffered a slight reduction in relation to
GDP. The balance of payments remained strong, however, as increased
exports and improved terms of trade kept the 1980 current account deficit
at 2% of GDP. Because of the emergence of a large interest rate
differential between Barbados and financial markets abroad, net external
private capital inflows were relatively small. However, net public sector
borrowing enabled the country to increase net official international
reserves by $20 million.
Economic Performance during 1981 and Prospects for 1982
11.       After five years of continued economic expansion, the economy of
Barbados experienced substantial difficulties during 1981. Because of a
late harvesting start and of adverse weather conditions, sugar produc-
tion declined by 30% with respect to 1980, and sugar export earnings by
42%. Furthermore, the sluggish economic growth of the OECD countries led
to a decline in tourism and to a stagnation of manufacturing production and
exports. Consequently, economic activity during 1981 is estimated to have
declined by about 1%.



- 3 -
12.       Because of declining economic activity and export volume,
relatively high levels of domestic demand--mostly of an investment
nature--and tax reductions introduced in the FY81/82 budget, public
finances and the balance of payments began, by mid-1981, to show signs of a
substantial deterioration. Faced with this situation, the Government
introduced demand management measures. They included: a) revenue measures
amounting to some 1.5% of GDP; b) cutbacks in public investment--which had
increased beyond anticipated levels; c) an increase of about 2% in interest
rates and of 12% in the Central Bank's regular rediscount rate; d)
selective credit controls; e) and an increase in the commercial banks'
reserve requirements.
13.       Although these measures contributed to alleviating excess demand
pressures on public finances and the balance of payments, both weakened
considerably during 1981. The overall deficit of the public sector during
FY81/82 is expected to reach 6% of GDP as compared with 4% of GDP in
FY80/81. The current account deficit of the balance of payments is
estimated to have reached about 9% of GDP as compared with 2% of GDP in
1980. In light of the deterioration of the balance of payments, the
authorities borrowed US$30 million from external commercial sources to
cushion the country's foreign exchange reserves.
14.       Barbados' growth prospects for 1982 do not appear bright.  Given
proper weather conditions, sugar production should recover somewhat from
its 1981 level. However in light of the current economic prospects of the
OECD countries, tourism and manufacturing may not recover until mid- or
late 1982.
15.       Given the above scenario, public finances and the balance of
payments are likely to remain weak during 1982. The authorities intend to
monitor closely internal and external developments and take the measures
that may be required to keep both the overall deficit of the public sector
and the current account deficit of the balance of payments within
manageable and prudent levels of external and internal borrowing.
Development Objectives and Policies
16.       Although Barbados has achieved economic progress with some degree
of economic diversification, the country faces difficult development
problems. Barbados' resource base is narrow. Its economy is open and, as
is to be expected, is still highly dependent on sugar and tourism for most
of its foreign exchange earnings. Domestic production of petroleum covers
only about 20% of fuel consumption. Agriculture has experienced, over the
last two decades, a secular decline. The small size of its population
limits the possibilities for internally led growth. The country's small
size and high population density suggest a limit, over the longer term, to
the rapid growth of tourism. Unemployment is still high--about 13%--while
shortages of skilled labor prevail in some sectors of the economy.
17.       The Government's development objectives for the coming years, as
outlined in the 1979-83 Development Plan and in other governmental
statements are, therefore, to: a) achieve rapid economic growth and reduce
unemployment, mainly by promoting a sustained expansion of tourism and



-4-
manufacturing and increased sugar production; b) achieve a higher degree of
economic and export diversification by promoting new manufacturing
activities and nonsugar agriculture; c) achieve a higher degree of
self-sufficiency by promoting energy conservation and the development of
traditional and nontraditional sources of energy; d) improve the skills of
the labor force; and e) increase the opportunities of the population to
satisfy their basic needs mainly by further improving health and education
services, and by increasing access to low-cost housing.
18.       As in the past, the Government intends to carry out its
development objectives in a framework of financial stability. Also, as in
the past, the Government's development strategy is to rely on private
sector investment (with Barbadians gradually increasing their share of
total investment) to provide the main impetus of economic growth. Overall,
the Government's development objectives are sound and realistic. They are
consistent with Barbados' resource potential and also with past economic
experience.
19.       Tourism and export manufacturing are expected to continue to be
the leading growth sectors. The Government's policies and support
activities in both sectors are generally well-conceived and implemented.
Consequently, provided that the favorable investment climate is continued,
social attitudes remain favorable towards tourism, and competitiveness is
maintained, the medium-term prospects for investment and growth in tourism
and manufacturing appear good, once the OECD economies recover.
20.       The Government is placing increasing emphasis on the agricultural
sector. In light of the favorable prospects for nonsugar agriculture and
the growing demand and imports of agricultural products, the Government has
begun to actively encourage agricultural diversification and particularly
vegetable production. The Government also intends to promote increased
sugar production--without increasing the acreage devoted to the
crop--through: a) greater use of mechanization; b) rehabilitation of sugar
factories; and c) improved cultivation techniques.1/
21.       The Government's energy pricing policies are realistic, but the
full energy conservation potential of the island has not been developed.
The Government and the Barbados Light and Power Company (BLPC) have
initiated steps to promote energy conservation.2/ Concerning the
development of alternative sources of energy, the Government and the
private sector are promoting the use of solar energy and excess bagasse,
and the Government is looking into the feasibility of developing wave and
wind energy.
1/ The agricultural sector is discussed in more detail in Part III
(paras. 33-43).
2/ The energy sector is discussed in more detail in Part III
paras. 44-52).



- 5-
Public Sector Investment
22.       Barbados' public sector capital expenditures mainly aim at
providing supporting infrastructure and incentives to the private sector,
as well as basic social services. In FY79/80 the authorities formulated a
four-year (BDS$620 million) public sector investment and financing
program. In this program, the directly productive sectors and economic
infrastructure accounted for about 52% of capital expenditures; housing and
social services for about 38% and the remainder was allocated to public
buildings and other works. Both the relative size and composition of this
program were consistent with the Government's development objectives and
strategy and with reasonable estimates of public sector savings and
external assistance.
23.       While carrying out the FY79/80-82/83 investment program, the
Government has identified new investment activities for the coming years
and has updated its estimates of ongoing projects. Public sector
investment for the next five years (FY81/82-85/86) had been targeted at
about BDS$1 billion or 8.5% of estimated GDP; public sector savings at
about 5.5% of estimated GDP. Since the performance of public sector
savings would be negatively affected during FY81/82-82/83 by adverse
external economic developments, the Government is reviewing the size of the
program to ensure that its financing is compatible with reasonable amounts
of external and domestic borrowing.
24.       In the agricultural sector, the investment program includes
projects to improve support facilities such as research, marketing and
credit, and projects to increase vegetable self-sufficiency and sugar
production. The two vegetable projects included in the program, namely
Integrated Rural Development and Spring Hall Land Lease, have substantial
irrigation and land reform components. On the basis of the experience
obtained in these projects, and as the institutional infrastructure is
strengthened in the context of the proposed technical assistance project,
it may be possible to identify export-oriented vegetable projects. To
support the fishing industry, the program includes externally financed
projects to improve port, storage and marketing facilities, and to increase
the fishing fleet.
25.       In the industrial sector, the main focus of the program is on the
construction of factory space and export promotion. In tourism, the
program includes the Heywood Holiday Village Project--partly financed by
the Bank--which was formulated to increase capacity, but mainly to increase
the participation of Barbadians in the industry. In the energy sector, the
program includes the BLPC power expansion project partially guaranteed by
the Government and partially financed by the Bank. This project includes
components to improve the transmission and distribution systems, develop a
long-term generation expansion plan, improve the tariff structure, and
promote energy conservation. The program also provides for the construc-
tion of a liquified petroleum gas (LPG) extraction plant and for improving
the gas transmission and distribution systems. If present efforts to find
additional oil and gas reserves are successful, there could be scope for
the inclusion of other energy projects. The activities envisaged in the
proposed technical assistance project would lead to the formulation of
energy conservation projects.



- 6 -
26.       In the transportation sector, the program includes projects to
support tourism, agriculture and industry, and projects to rehabilitate
roads, increase the bus fleet, and diminish traffic congestion. Some of
these projects would also contribute to energy conservation. In the health
sector they include the Bridgetown Sewerage Project and community health
clinics. In the education sector they include the expansion of the
Polytechnic Institute and the rehabilitation of primary and secondary
schools, partly financed by the Bank.
Medium-term Growth Prospects, Balance of Payments Outlook and
Creditworthiness
27.       Barbados' narrow resource base, together with the uncertain
outlook for the international economy, makes the country's prospects
relatively fragile. Among its assets are a record of prudent and flexible
economic management, a literate and vigorous labor force and some scope for
further expansion of tourism. Once economic growth resumes in the OECD
countries, manufacturing and tourism should recover provided that price
competitiveness is maintained. The Government is fully aware of the need
to maintain price competitiveness and intends to encourage moderate wage
settlements. The Government's increasing emphasis on agriculture and
energy conservation should contribute to bolstering the economy.
28.       Barbados' public and public-guaranteed external debt at the end
of 1981 is estimated at about $160 million or 18% of GDP; its debt service,
estimated at about 5% of domestic exports and tourist receipts is
relatively low. Because of the country's developmental needs, public and
public-guaranteed external debt would increase by relatively large amounts
during the next three to four years. Nevertheless, provided monetary and
fiscal policies continue to be good, price competitiveness is maintained,
and commercial external borrowing is limited, the country is regarded as
creditworthy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
29.       Barbados became a Bank member in 1974.  The proposed project
would be the Bank's fifth lending operation. Bank loans to Barbados total
$33.0 million and are for education, tourism, industrial development and
electric power. In addition, Barbados has benefited from the Bank's
lending to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). So far, two loans for a
total of US$5.6 million from IBRD resources have been made by the CDB to
Barbados: in September 1978, for an industrial development project
(US$2.6 million); and in November 1981, for the rehabilitation of two sugar
factories (US$3 million).
30.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities. The Bank organized a
subgroup under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development to coordinate financial and technical aid to
Barbados. At the meetings of the subgroup, multilateral and bilateral
donors expresed substantial interest in financing specific priority
projects and in providing technical assistance to Barbados. In addition,



in support of its balance of payments, the country received special
assistance through the Caribbean Development Facility (CDF)3/ from the US,
the UK, Canada and the OPEC FUND. As of June 1981, CDF-type pledges to
Barbados amounted to US$13 million. Barbados is also benefiting from the
Mexican-Venezuelan oil facility established in 1980, and may also benefit
from the Trinidadian oil facility.
31.       In 1980 the Bank's share in Barbados' outstanding public and
public-guaranteed external debt was 1.0%; its share in Barbados' external
debt service was 1.4%. It is estimated that by 1985 the Bank's share in
Barbados' outstanding public and public-guaranteed external debt would be
about 8%. The Bank's share in the external public debt service would be
about 7%.
PART III - SECTORAL CONTEXT AND THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Background
32.       As indicated in Part I, the economy of Barbados has performed
well in the last two decades. This performance has been mainly due to the
rapid expansion of tourism and manufacturing, since agricultural production
has been declining. While recognizing the need for sustained investment
and growth in tourism and manufacturing, the Government has begun to
promote more aggressively increased agricultural production as well as
agricultural diversification. Also, given the country's dependence on
petroleum imports, and the need to improve resource use, the Government
intends to carry out a comprehensive energy conservation program. In these
endeavors, however, the Government faces a weak institutional support and
lack of technical expertise. In agriculture these constraints have evolved
as the country's developmental efforts have mainly focussed--over the last
two decades--in developing tourism and manufacturing. In energy
conservation, they are due to its relatively new importance. The proposed
technical assistance project--which has an agricultural diversification
component and an energy conservation component--would assist the
Government's development objectives by strengthening the institutions in
charge of promoting these activities and by promoting the development of
necessary technical expertise.
3/ The CDF was established during the First Meeting of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development, held at Bank headquarters June
19-24, 1978. It is a transitional emergency financing facility to
cover local costs and cost overruns of development projects in
Caribbean countries, including Barbados.



-8-
Agriculture
33.       Although the relative importance of agriculture in the economy
has declined over the years, it still remains an important source of
income, export earnings and employment. Agriculture accounted in 1980 for
about 10% of GDP and 9% of full-time employment. Sugar exports accounted
for about 11% of total foreign exchange earnings.
34.       Some 75,500 acres, out of a total land area of 106,000 acres are
suitable for agriculture. Currently about 59,000 acres are cultivated
(49,000 in sugar cane), and about 9,000 people are employed full time in
agriculture. In addition, some 25,000 part-time farmers--including
backyard producers--work small plots ranging from less than 1/8 of an acre
to 10 acres; about half of these part-time farmers do not own the land they
work. The average age of the farm labor force is high and increasing,
since youths have tended to move out of the sector. Agricultural labor is
scarce and expensive despite the island's overall high unemployment. The
scarcity of labor appears to be due to socio-cultural factors, lack of
agricultural training and what are perceived as better employment
opportunities in other sectors.
The Sugar Sub-Sector
35.       Once the mainstay of the economy, sugar production declined
steadily from the mid-1960s through the mid-1970s. Both a decline in
yields and in sugarcane area contributed to the drop in sugar production.
Yields declined because of an extended period of poor rainfall and also
because increasing labor shortages led to the practice of burning cane
before harvesting. Declining yields, increasing costs, labor shortages and
a strong demand for land for tourism and housing purposes, led to a decline
in cane area. During the second half of the 1970s, however, cane area and
average yields were sustained.
36.       As noted in Part I, the Government's policy in the sugar
subsector is to raise production through increased yields without extending
the cultivated area. The sugar growers are, on the whole, fairly efficient
and capable and have developed their own grower association, extension and
research activities. Consequently, the focus of the agricultural component
of the proposed technical assistance project would be on the nonsugar
sector.
Nonsugar Agriculture
37.       Although sugarcane dominates the sector, Barbados offers some
good conditions for growing, during most of the year, vegetables, cotton,
pulses, peanuts and various fruit trees. Also, a recent hydrological study
has established that, even in a drought year, some 6,600 acres of land
could be irrigated as compared with only 1,600 acres presently under
irrigation.
38.       In spite of its favorable prospects, the performance of nonsugar
agriculture has been, on the whole, disappointing. With few exceptions,
the production of most crops has either been erratic or declining since
1970. This is partly due to some of the factors that have affected sugar



- 9 -
production--such as labor shortages and bad weather conditions--but, more
important, to lack of proper institutional and marketing support.
Specifically, the development of nonsugar agriculture has been mainly
constrained by:
a) a lack of clarity of roles and coordination among the various
institutions operating in the sector;
b) a weak extension service with inadequate technical knowledge
of modern production techniques;
c) inadequate water management practices and irrigation systems;
d)  an inadequate local marketing system;
e) the shortage of agricultural workers;
f) little if any organization among growers of crops other than
sugarcane; and
g) the small number of farmers willing and able to take the
risks of growing agricultural products on a larger scale.
Marketing of Nonsugar Crops
39.       The currently inadequate marketing system has been often
identified as one of the main factors inhibiting the development of
non-sugar agriculture. Most of the local marketing (70%) is done by
vendors or "hawkers". The "hawker" system has performed a useful and
necessary local distribution function, but it lacks a grading system, a
price and quantity information system, contractual arrangements, and
storage facilities. As a result, it has led to high levels of waste and
risk. Waste, in turn, has led to low prices to producers and high prices
to consumers. Risk, and the lack of storage facilities, have discouraged
the production of large quantities of perishable goods. The absence of
adequate information, and of storage facilities, has also led to frequent
seasonal shortages or surpluses. The Barbados Marketing Corporation (BMC),
a statutory body, which markets about 10-15% of production, is constructing
new marketing and storage facilities. BMC, is not, however, an effective
institution and it lacks farmer confidence. Consequently, it would be
important for the government to review the marketing arrangements and the
role it wishes to play in the marketing of nonsugar agricultural products.
Agricultural Institutions and Government Policies
40.       The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Affairs (MOA) has
a wide range of responsibilities in the fields of agricultural planning,
research and extension. In practice, most of the MOA activities relate to
non-sugar agriculture, since the sugar producers have developed their own
support services.
41.       The organizational structure of the MOA is reasonably good but
individual sub-units and activities need some modification and
strengthening. The extension service, for example, is poorly organized,



- 10 -
understaffed and lacks capability in improved extension methods and
techniques. Irrigation and water management also suffer from lack of
proper staff. The research program is not adequately oriented toward
practical applications, and lacks facilities and staff. All of the MOA
support services suffer from lack of training facilities and access to
training.
42.       The agricultural sector of Barbados has received in the past
technical assistance, mostly as grants, from various international and
bilateral agencies. These have been mainly in the form of short-term
visits of experts in different fields of agriculture. However, for the
following reasons the impact of these efforts has been limited: the visits
of the experts, usually specialists in specific technical areas, were
mostly of very short duration and there was little follow-up on the
recommendations; local counterparts were rarely assigned to work with and
receive training from the expatriate specialists; and, more importantly,
there was no sustained effort to improve or strengthen the agricultural
institutions.
43.       The major objectives of Government's agricultural policy, as set
out in the Development Plan 1979-83, are to maximize exports to the extent
possible, and, where it is technically and economically feasible, to reduce
agricultural imports, including those required by the tourism industry.
Within this framework, the Government attempts to maintain the free market
principle. Thus, in general, the Government does not interfere in price
setting and quantities supplied of most agricultural products, with the
main exceptions of sugar and some imported foodstuffs which are subject to
price controls. There are no programs of price supports or direct
subsidies.   Farm credit is obtainable on a commercial basis.  In light of
the favorable prospects for non-sugar agriculture, and the growing
demand--and imports--of agricultural products, the Government has
formulated a program of agricultural diversification. In this regard, it
has modified its fiscal incentives to promote more actively the adoption of
gradually more advanced agro-technical methods, and it has included a
significant number of agricultural (including livestock and fisheries)
projects in its investment program. The Government also intends to
strengthen its agricultural institutions and to encourage better marketing
arrangements.
Energy
44.       Petroleum provides over 90% of primary energy; natural gas and
bagasse provide the remainder. Major users are: BLPC (45%); transport
(20-25%); sugar industry (4%); other industry (15%); and residential (8%).
45.       Proven reserves of crude oil are tentatively estimated at about 4
million barrels of which about one-third may be recoverable.  Domestic
production started in 1973 and increased steadily through 1980 when it
reached about 320,000 barrels, or 25% of total petroleum consumption.
Under governmental licensing, a subsidiary of Mobil is carrying out deep
oil drilling activities but no major findings appear to have been obtained
yet. Meanwhile, Mobil appears to have interrupted shallow drilling which
has been the traditional source of Barbados' oil, and, consequently,
domestic production of petroleum substantially decreased during 1981.



- 11 -
Mobil intends to resume shallow drilling, and domestic production is
expected to recover in 1982. In 1980, Barbados imported 960,000 barrels of
oil at a cost of about US$31 million or about 6% of domestic exports of
goods and nonfactor services and 4% of estimated GDP.
46.       Natural gas is produced in association with oil.  Until 1980,
most of the gas produced was vented.  Since late 1980, gas-fired boilers
have been used by BLPC in one power station, but not with the anticipated
cost-effectiveness in view of the low amounts of gas produced during 1981.
The sugar industry relies exclusively on bagasse for fuel. A small amount
of the surplus bagasse was used during 1980 to supply power to the national
grid; in 1981, however, there was no bagasse surplus due to heavy rains.
47.       The Government is now giving high priority to energy matters.
The overall development strategy is to continue oil and gas exploration
while developing alternative energy sources and encouraging energy
conservation.
Energy Conservation
48.       Barbados has made a promising start in energy conservation since
prices of petroleum products broadly reflect opportunity costs and
electricity tariffs are fairly adequate. The full energy conservation
potential of the country, however, has not been developed mainly because:
(a) the country lacks a proper institutional framework to sponsor,
formulate, implement and coordinate an effective energy conservation
program; and (b) there is no expertise to advise consumers on economical
energy conservation measures.
49.       Accordingly, to further develop the country's energy conservation
potential, thereby improving resource use and competitiveness, and saving
foreign exchange, the Government, with the assistance of the private
sector, intends to sponsor, formulate and implement a comprehensive energy
conservation program. This program would provide for: (a) developing the
necessary expertise to identify and implement economical energy
conservation measures; (b) advising consumers on such opportunities;
(c) motivating consumers to make use of such opportunities; (d) providing--
as needed--credit facilities to implement energy conservation projects;
(e) improving the energy efficiency of the transport system; and (f) other
measures such as reviewing and modifying--as needed--electricity tariffs
and building practices, and the labeling of energy using appliances. To
carry out the program, the Government intends to rely mainly on the private
sector and on market forces, but would also need to build up its
institutional expertise to ensure a coordinated and effective approach to
energy conservation, and to place conservation efforts within the country's
overall developmental objectives.
50.       One important element of the country's energy conservation effort
is in a fairly advanced stage of preparation. The BLPC, in the context of
the Bank-financed Power Project (Ln. 1940-BAR, made in February 1981), will
carry out an electricity conservation study to: (a) identify electricity
conservation opportunities for major commercial and industrial consumers;
(b) formulate concrete electricity conservation proposals for such major
consumers; and (c) recommend improvement in the labeling of domestic



- 12 -
electric appliances and in building practices. These activities are being
carried out by consultants hired by BLPC.
Energy Conservation Institutions
51.       Since June 1981, responsibility for energy matters rests with the
Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) which is headed by the Prime
Minister. In the MFP a Department of Energy has been established under the
direction of the Permanent Secretary. Also, a Parliamentary Secretary has
been made responsible for energy matters at a ministerial level. The
energy unit of the MFP, however, has only a small staff. It includes a
part-time Director, two petroleum engineers' vacant posts, and two
economists.
52.       Barbados also has a number of other public and private
institutions, which, with governmental leadership and support, could
contribute to the implementation of energy conservation activities. They
include the: Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity (BIMAP),
Barbados National Standards Institute (BNSI), Barbados Development Bank
(BDB), Barbados Hotel Association (BHA), Barbados Institute of Architects
(BIA), Barbados Manufacturers Association (BMA), Barbados Association of
Professional Engineers (BAPE), National Council for Science and Technology
(NCST), Transport Board (TB) and the Barbados Agricultural Society (BAS).
These organizations are represented on a recently established Energy
Advisory Committee.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       To assist Barbados in achieving its developmental objectives,
economic and sector work carried out during FY81 assessed the main
constraints to the development of nonsugar agriculture, as well as the
possibilities for energy conservation. Bank missions also assisted the
Government in formulating an action program and in preparing the proposed
project. The need for technical assistance was determined in the light of
the country's weak institutional development and local expertise. A Loan
and Project Summary appears at the beginning of this report. There is no
separate appraisal report, but further details of the proposed project are
shown in Annexes III, IV and V. Negotiations were held in Washington in
January, 1981. The Barbadian delegation was led by Senator C. Griffth,
Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Finance and Planning.
54.       The activities included in the proposed technical assistance are
not envisaged in the programs of other multilateral or bilateral agencies.
UNDP, USAID, Caribbean Development Bank, Inter-American Development Bank,
and the British Development Division (BDD) are assisting Barbados in
developing hydrocarbons and renewable sources of energy. However, apart
from assistance in developing an energy accounting system, no assistance is
scheduled to be forthcoming in energy conservation. Concerning
agriculture, UNDP's technical assistance program would be modest in the
coming years ($270,000 during 1982-86), and IDB's programming only includes
assistance in the fishing sector.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
55.       The proposed Technical Assistance Project would assist the
Government in achieving its goals of agricultural diversification and
energy conservation. The project would provide for expert services,
training, studies, small-scale pilot sub-projects, specialized equipment
and technical literature to:
a) strengthen managerial ability and institutional development;
b) contribute to the formulation, implementation and monitoring
of the Government's policies and programs;
c) contribute to the identification and preparation of further
projects for possible financing from the Bank and other
sources.
56.       The energy conservation component of this project would, in
addition, complement and expand the activities already envisaged in the
Bank-financed power project by following up on recommendations to be
derived from the ongoing studies under that loan.
Project Description
The Agricultural Diversification Component
57.       The agricultural diversification component would comprise the
following activities:
a) assisting and advising the Government on the strengthening of
the institutions involved in the sector and in ensuring the
proper roles and coordination among them. The services of
about five consultants for medium-term assignments of up to
two-and-a-half years (about 110 man-months in total) would be
required. These consultants would be:
(i)    a lead advisor who would advise on the organization
and role of the MOA and other agricultural
institutions and on their organization; although the
Government's agricultural policy seems, on the whole,
to be appropriate, he would also review it and would
propose adjustments if necessary; he would help
reassess the specific technical assistance needs which
have already been tentatively identified and, after
modifying and updating the proposals as may be
appropriate and agreed with the Government and the
Bank, help finalize detailed terms of reference for
the other technical assistance portions, preferably
taking on the tasks of one area of specialized
assistance (such as extension) as well as be team
leader;
(ii)   an extension methodology and organization advisor to
provide advice in particular on the strengthening of
the extension service;



- 14 -
(iii)  a vegetable extension specialist to establish--within
the framework of the extension service--a system for
guidance and technical assistance to vegetable
growers;
(iv)   an irrigation specialist to assist the MOA in
introducing to farmers water management systems and
methods of efficient water use;
(v)    a marketing specialist to assist in identifying
alternative marketing arrangements and in developing a
system that will transfer essential market information
to farmers.
The main advisor would begin his assignment six months
earlier than the other consultants.
b) the provision of local staff to work as counterparts to the
consultants;
c) short-term tasks that would be defined, in agreement between
the Government and the Bank, during the course of project
implementation. These may well include a peanut-growing
specialist and a fruit-growing specialist; the services of
about 20 man-months of consultants are expected to be
required;
d) the preparation and implementation of several small-scale or
pilot sub-projects that would be defined during the period of
the technical assistance project. Such sub-projects are
intended to accelerate the implementation of the Government's
policy of diversification and increase productivity in
sugarcane production. The focus would be on projects that
can be implemented within the duration of the technical
assistance project (about 3 years). At this stage of
preparation, one sub-project has been already discussed. It
is the establishment of an agricultural training center for
the MOA staff and farmers.
e) Training and fellowships to complement and improve staff
knowledge of specific subject matters.
The Energy Conservation Component
58.       The energy conservation component would include the following:
a) advising and assisting the Government in:



- 15 -
(i)    establishing an appropriate energy conservation
planning and implementing organization; in
formulating, sponsoring, implementing, coordinating
and monitoring an energy conservation program; and in
the identification and preparation of energy
conservation projects for possible financing by the
Bank and other sources (18 man-months). As
appropriate, these projects would include those
sub-projects identified by the BLPC;
(ii)   building up a national pool of expertise by preparing
and conducting training courses on energy management
in industry and commerce, and on the more technical
and specialized aspects of energy conservation.  The
energy management courses would cover topics such as
energy audits, identification of energy losses and
financial assessment of possible conservation
measures. The more technical and specialized courses
would complement and expand on the management courses
and would include fuller energy audits, heat recovery,
changes in processes and equipment, and potential for
fuel substitution and cogeneration. Counterpart
instructors would be trained throughout to ensure
continuation of benefits. These courses would be
carried out in association with BIMAP and in
cooperation with the BLPC, BHA and BAPE, and would
include on-the-job training and case studies (9
man-months). They would complement and expand BLPC's
conservation activities concerning major industrial
and commercial electricity consumers.
(iii) the planning,coordination, and implementation of a,
national promotion, information and motivation
campaign, incorporating results of the BLPC-sponsored
studies and the case studies carried out in the
context of the above training program (6 man-months);
(iv)   reviewing the surface transportation study already
made for the government to advise on which specific
measures incorporated in the study could be given
priority for implementation on account of their
potential for early energy savings. Such measures
could--among others--include traffic management,
maintenance, reduction of bottlenecks, road works (1
man-month).
About 34 man-months of consultants' services are expected to
be required.
b)  Activities to be defined, in agreement between the Government
and the Bank, during project implementation. These could
include, for example, assisting the Government in
establishing an advisory service, advising on the role of
BNSI concerning testing, standards and labelling, and
advising in the implementation of pilot projects; about six
man-months of consultants' services are expected to be
required;



- 16 -
c) overseas training of a small core of government staff, energy
managers and engineers, through short practical courses of
three to four weeks in energy management and technical
training. Visits by government staff at national-regional
level in selected countries to acquire relevant experience on
energy conservation planning and implementation in other
countries.
Specialized equipment and library materials would be provided to support
the above activities.
Project Implementation and Organization
59.       Overall responsibility for the project would be assumed by the
office of the Director of Finance and Planning in the Ministry of Finance
and Planning (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). This office is
in charge of preparing, coordinating and monitoring Barbados' public sector
investment program. The unit of the Chief Agricultural Officer would be
responsible for day-to-day administration and coordination of the work of
the consultants of the agricultural component (Section 3.01(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement), making recommendations and administrative arrangements for
hiring short-term consultants, the planning and arrangements for the
implementation of the subprojects, and for supervising and assessing the
work of consultants. Early during project execution, the Bank would review
with the Government the recommendations of the main agricultural advisor
both on the updated, detailed terms of reference for the other team
members, as well as on any organizational improvements or policy
adjustments which might be identified to enhance achievement of the
projects objectives. Concerning energy conservation, the existing
institutional framework in the Ministry of Finance and Planning would be
built up by establishing a small Energy Conservation Unit within the
Department of Energy which was recently established to coordinate all
energy matters. The Department of Energy would act as coordinator and
administering agency for the energy conservation component (Section 3.01(d)
of the Draft Loan Agreement). It would be a condition of disbursement of
the energy conservation component that the Energy Conservation Unit (ECU)
be established and adequately staffed (Schedule 1, para 4(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
60.       The provision of an adequate number of good local counterparts to
the consultants would be essential to achieve the project's objectives.
Therefore, the Government would assign to the project an adequate number of
suitably qualified personnel and arrange that key counterpart staff would
be in place before any expatriate consultant takes up his post (Section
3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). These counterparts would be existing
government employees.
61.       The implementation period is estimated at about 3 years for the
agricultural diversification component and at about 2 years for the energy
conservation component.
Cost and Financing
62.       Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
about US$3.7 million, of which US$2.7 million would be in foreign
exchange. The project would be exempt from duties and taxes. The cost of



- 17 -
the agricultural component is estimated at US$2.6 million, including US$1.9
million in foreign exchange. The cost of the energy conservation component
is estimated at US$1.1 million, including US$0.8 million in foreign
exchange. Consultant's costs are estimated at an average $10,500 per
man-month for the agricultural component,and at $12,000 per man-month for
the energy conservation component, including travel and subsistence.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 7% for the agricultural
component and at 8% for the energy conservation component. Price
contingencies have been estimated at 8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% per annum from
1983 onwards. The Loan and Project Summary includes a summary of the cost
estimates. The proposed loan of US$2.7 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs (72% of total project cost) of the project. The Government
would finance the local currency cost.
r
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       The selection of consultants and experts would be in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines for the use of consultants (August 1981).
All the terms of reference, qualifications, conditions of employment and
contracts for consulting services would be subject to agreement by the
Bank, as would be the external training programs and the pilot sub-projects
to be financed with loan funds. It is expected that most of the technical
assistance would be provided by expatriate consultants. Because of the
small size and timing of individual purchases, equipment, library materials
and vehicles would be procured through competitive bidding following local
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements would be made
over a period of about three years to cover 100% of foreign expenditures
for consultants' services, imported equipment, vehicles, library materials
and foreign training, and 70% of imported items procured locally.
Disbursements would be fully documented.
Accounts and Audit
64.       The Ministry of Finance and Planning would keep separate accounts
relating to the project, which would be audited. Audit reports would be
furnished to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       The major benefits of the project would be to enhance the
Government's capacity to implement its agricultural diversification program
as well as more effective local agricultural staff and farmers, resulting
in higher agricultural production to meet local needs. In addition, the
project would result in the provision of a working institutional framework
and local expertise for establishing and implementing an effective energy
conservation program. The project would also increase and improve the
quality of projects to be prepared for submission to multilateral and
bilateral agencies.
66.       There are no unusual risks involved in the project, apart from
the problems of recruiting consultants and experts capable of cooperating
with and training local staff, and of finding and retaining qualified
Barbadian counterparts. To help reduce these problems, the Bank would, as
needed, assist the Government in locating and employing qualified
consultants and experts.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between Barbados and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. It would be a
condition of disbursement for the energy conservation component that the
Energy Conservation Unit in the Department of Energy be established and
adequately staffed (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 16, 1982



- 19. -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
BARBArrrI5CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BARBADOS                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
LAPD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             0.4                               MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCQME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      0.37             1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN         EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                420.0      1020.0   2440.0 *                1616.2                  2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA -
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    378.6      871.5   1179.0                   1324.1                  2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  231.0      238.0    248.2 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.5       37.0     39.0                    64.2                    53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     0.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
*                 PER SQ. KM.                     577.5       595.0    620.5                    34.3                    80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULXURAL LAND    624.3     643.2    667.6                     94.5                   133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                        38.1       37.4      28.2                    40.7                    30.1
15-64 YRS.                        55.2       54.4      61.7                    55.3                    61.5
65 YES. AND ABOVE                  6.7        8.2      10.1                     4.0                     8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             0.9/c      0.3/c     0.5/c                   2.4                     1.5
URBAN                             1.4        0.7       1.0                     3.7                     3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    30.5       22.6      22.5                    31.4                    22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    10.1         9.0      8.5                     8.4                     9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.3         1.4      1.1                     2.3                     1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        103.0      107.0      84.0                   108.3                   119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT UF
REQUIREMENTS)                 108.0       120.0    129.0                   107.6                   125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)-        65.0       78.0      82.8                    65.8                    92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      48.0        48.0     55.0                    34.0                    39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     6.6        4.0       2.9                     7.6                     3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   64.7       68,5      70.8                    64.1                    68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          60,4       46.5      28.3                    70.9                    25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       98.0    100.0                     65.7
URBAN                              ..       95.0    100.0                     79.7
RURAL                              ..       100.0    100.0                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       100.0    100.0                    59.9
URBAN                              ..       100.0    100.0                    75.7
RURAL                              ..       100.0    100.0                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         3039.5     1904.0   1446.5                   1728.2                   973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     650.0      423.5    370.2                   1288.2                   896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           168.9       97.3    114.3                    471.2                   262.3
URrAN                              ..       119.9    141.1                   558.0                   191.8
RURAL                              ..      158.3/d   189.7/d
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL bED          ..         9.2     11.0                      ..                    18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.0        4.0
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                                                    ..                ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.2        1.0
URLAN                             1.2         1.0
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        69.0
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                             Page  2  of  5
BARBADOS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BARBADOS                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                108.0        102.0     116.0                     101.7                     105.9
MALE                 116.0       104.0      115.0                    103.0                     109.6
FEMALE               102.0       101.0      116.0                    101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 39.0         68.0      82.0                      35.3                      66.3
MALE                  46.0        67.0       79.0                     34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                33.0        69.0       85.0                     35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  5.0             ..         ..                     30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            40.0         33.0      28.0                      29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          29.0         27.0      20.0                      15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        94.0         99.2       99.0                     80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         35.0         81.1     100.9                      42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        151.5        373.9     406.7                     215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         67.2     203.3                      89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  85.0         90.6      118.5                     62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           5.0       4.9                       3.2                       5.7
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        91.5         89.9      108.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.0         39.9      40.7                      22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              26.4         17.0        8.6                     35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 27.0         28.0      25.3                      23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.6         37.8       43.5                     31.8                      42.3
MALE                                 51.2         48.3       54.6                     49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                               30.2         28.4       33.6                     14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.2        0.9                      1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        19.8/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          44.07;.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         6.87        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        18.67;e
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                ..           ..     484.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     484.0                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     518.0                     513.9                        ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..     518.0                     362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       23.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      23.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to migration, population growth rats is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d Government
hospital establishments only;  /e Inco 1b recipient.
* The updated 1980 CNP per capita and populiation estimates to be shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are S3040 (at 1978 - 80 prices) and 249,000.
May, 1981



- 21-                                                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS Of SOCIAl LthiCATOth
Nate.n  Although the data are draco from  to-c-  g.enerlly judged the .oct a-hrnaean   eiable, It should cca bs ooeed that they cay sot be Eate-
eattoulycomarbleheaccofthelak of stuadadtem-dafcaltaad contai   used hy differet.-                      atietooleto   the dat.-   The d.   ace,noe
The .oe ..c ....y  are  ( h  sm      -rtoygop of the muhbcon o--ty mad (if acutry group alnh moaa  higher average Icoa ohue the -ou-rY grauP
of theub fac  -ocoor  fe-or           fo         S-eo 1-rpu  Oill Eaporerm' gr-cEcoera  'riddle   orer hatch Afrira cad Mitddle tact':' a  chse  heooc o..f  -trng-
aooo-cltualaftonlmf    t  tO  reerece  rou  dat  onhe avera es  re ypualo  olhe~d aitheetlo certe for eac  indicao  cod ahas  otly theet
malotoyo   hcuoltt               ru    a   aafrta t_dtotor.Sinde the  -ore-ge of cootyrel  o    the Ir,dioror  dyodm  or tha a-ilabtlity  of data
atdua   -tunf-o.oau-lo-m   baeaeeltedoaai                   o    reaa  eomtdtotrraoyy    Taeoeaeae   ocm_u    roaatghess    f
ro  loditcao     otattiee -tetg the  --ncY and ref-erene gr-opt 
LA40D &11  (thoceand a.hmk.)                                                                        Pooaocpe   opolle   - total, urhar, mod rota  - Poyalatlai (atl
Total - focal tufa-  aeaoytsg  lard arma aad ld       naar.                                           rhr,ad  cordlidotdd Optiercepatolne' nadr  f hnmyttal hadal
fororpa  cutureauka  an  cooargarer  o  t  10  fll..; lredaa.hailtbatoor cates   Sop  tal  are                              daellmet hye.ool p     taffd
by to Isaa  on  p hpaoI        lettalahtoapronldlo  p=taopally caao
Mt  PEE CAPITA fitS) - GNP Per cPitna eetat-  at current market yptiet "Ial-                           dial rate are cot included,loya  homptala, tr-r-r  lolade health
oulcood hy teat  -    -orion nethod at W-1d Bark Atlas (1977-79 betim) ;-so,sd medi-ia -o-r  nor peora..otly stffedibp a phystel tar(hoe hy.a
100,an  1979 data,                                                                                  ieOa   alto            os,adeife, te. I         hah oter ta-Fatest aof
afOt ic4crnde a boted range of" tcdclfltta    Farcttt
ltRftY CI(tltPTIOt fit CaPITA -.Ato    onap.o.o...nca   tehrg  foca                                    roo   p-p...po   .. uban hasponala  ic-Ide  af  peielpallgeteral hrocpttslc,
aalgtt,erltmutca    a   r hdo,   o   a  adIehenlaac                                                  t   urltitrllcI  0otl  apolecdcdlm ud                                 aeet
t Iyttp    kin  larc   o-oa       lalr           aita; 19ff,191,Sad100ones                                      -hyraimeid hopIttalc arl ulddolyudtttl
data.                                                                             odalamloas per poaroral tad - fatal0 oumbe-  of adeatamsta  r tcare
d.-                                                                      A'T'2i             ."t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~frnhopaae  iIddbth Ttumherbof hfede. i- t.-d hg
POPITAIOIIN     VIOlTiDl  STATISTICSIr.1HHj~didb   h                                                                                        brfb.
Totl  or1    alo.  itd-Y-a  fth-r..atdcf - Am of July 1; :960, 1970, and 1079                   foESEOG
data.                                                                                           A-aram  Sia. of Hochl    ooat   a   ochld      aa.-to    a   aa
Orhat P.t..ot.a.aoo   atl                 aat  o   ra   tottlpouain                                  A household    ... orltm  fcgop  fIdndal   l                n  lintog quatee
*                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~daffteatdtat oaofuba   roa   a  afc   op hlbiliy ot dat                               c4ti  main realm   k baarde ft ladgar may or ma'l.i.;      y oar be iriaded Is
amag cutrr;1901, 1970, cod 1979 dat,-                                                             the haom.ehn1d far rcolttal purytec
Foruatla  En nea  1111 - lorcat poycJloion projac o  ar  h..d  -r1980                              her atpcetnm  pelr foti   l  aI ha, at  tarI                       __aZtd oanottsa
tnol   ppuconbpyg  ov          .eaad choIr eratpcdftitposs.dselligseaptnlp                                                   Psiog auudnn-   35Nttttnsad
log life ep--any  t1 birth itooa  t  rc   o_ootry a pa  caIta ioanc                           A.....on EletityfcoaIfdslsa-ttl.tb,tdeal-
land   andfamlo lfa  tpe-ayr   -beilislog at 77.5 pear.  Th. e pat-                     Tn_eni..ld-eliitge altb ee-trit te  itntag qoatteo   c  petasatage
neter  fat  fatiln  ruse lt  hare  hthre  De-ae aseartg dacllna to                              f ntatl, ora,ad royal  drIlittgsmPeo -nly.
tdfertility trends for               9eclo   opaa.e                                         Adinte   rorimt  tettom
_ounorat afiit..-I        .cta   t       "mpP"polati- there is no grooth sta-                 Patty ahn  - toal  male an  fane-_ -Gr.ct ftota, male sad tamal
ma 1a  -antan.  This Ic achieved otly after feetilityocteml  darlios, sopalsaryaha-g                                            ...latta; otreily  atellude    bilde  aged 6f11
tha  tapacean  lana a.f  Etl oto   ara          tioaef. ohe, earl                                 y...topee  hu  ajusted  far dtfe... lte1:gnh  of.prte   edars..ati; for
smlatdante   tesla of the prajeoled ohoe_tferlto    fno   onatr                             ir   aepolsaebaa    rcas  h    fltl  o lse
ithe yacy oDac, and the rate of delio  of f-etiltop fathrne pl-pacadfyscoo-  i                                     toal maean  fsle - C              _prdcccaa    esatad
many Danal.                                                                        eduoartarreqafraca1.l.  epl  S  fy_ ~ ilt   leastel   for byeaths aff p taedpfh.., acaelc
Dean ottiLatry ~popultion is reahed - The peat ch-o oftit_tn y popoatirt                             prr-oti  geniera. nocltl.rtabtrsctgIaeats   e   ut
elac hs horn. rtahd.uacl   f  7to1                                                                                          sar  of- age;atresofptsdea    pat _ce  see gescta
PPorulti.. ae..eloy  -chd.                                                                               ludeid.,g ,,11tl1                      -hri.lt..flPP
Feeto.We  -  ldpat  ppulcio pe  fuoe fllnatr  lIDhancrcfofV_rtioatl                          f Iotolss  Y.reoa   etde)-   ectslIalata
total area; lOID, 1970 atd 1070 datI.                                  tmolodstaobntacl,~~~_.I ... dnst._RtL, at othat  _  p ..e.c mOteorc i tit.ti ad
tar a. lea asrcultoal lta -  oopuf   kiaaahar  far  0 h__culuca  tadwlco   tdeatet   fccsdc   attao
latto; 196D, 19071  am  1979 data.                                                               Aduilt  ..terho  ralte  Peroano       d - tltcaedul-  (This to  eadan   ate
Faralcotno Irt_     Et  (Pero... I) - total - aoaut  groan Orates of tocci aid-                        aeaeroetoge of totsi adult papalattan aged 15 peere cadtre
paint patnia.to. far 1950-If, 9601-70. aIed 1971D-79.
taraisoin I_roath SEate frarcet.t  - o-ha  -   -1aa   -tenr  r,tta   of urba  popo-             CEttaDtt?TIt5
ittc  r1051-fl, 1016-1 1. ad 107D-79.                                                    Fa   Caet Ears       l frth .....d enaulatital - P ...  ner lra teoapetee astat
Crode Sith Eat  fer tho..aodf - anua  lineb horh   per totad ofmi-errtsaIn lsshtsgtpcau; aidschlus.hseetd
paplatton.; 1060, 1970, ard1079 data.                                                             atlittop vehice.
Cads  rt   asfertDmo)- Annua  dsaths per thoasarde of  iod-pee                                     Eadtr aleelv.r.  .oar thaus..d rrito           -All1 types  f rcetr...     f tI r,tl
tilitpataa;uualipIlna-yct anrgaerogI  lO- D, 1070, andr iNO                              mati auole    oisedlcecdg
ofhrhcneldnoa   ne   uDoao  calod-malyplnteipogamlgtaa  phlc                                                   -er bhut. d papulctla          f amoludeis malena  tdO  e rt
FaoictlaaP- difs(rroo    hfaoedamefpeyatg,                               fcte                        uoaoeadopecmtrettsttF0erns   stet
....o lidbalo1t1       (5A,yce  wouefit-ctoidrrs  ntnaae  Craa_a,ee  tnss   nolsadi                                                               haate  roseot
ta 00  aletdo yea  basis   Cosmdoola  carat  rtttao   gtnds(e.g.Yagcccos                  andatOllsnolts
nunieal  rarge podnet pice  tI~aa;   911I),  1960,an 11979  aa                      oa   oe   ot   taema       assriysta  paecm   ficldla
qucools  se  E  fodpacslg  andf.   loctt I  dirihth              utl-an.vRqIe                    gtalus(c-eo               an tnrs  s  s-ntel          tety   atn    a
FW a~NdUmendTIONiulau   aouln   n   iotflDprerfrwsea                                                 n    lcrcry    te   o   a   sp etg   f                    the ishac fat;  9t.
hI cad    l  lna;  01-I,  07, d            1977 d"tc.                                              T9Pl,cod-1070 data.
leP crtutotf o  paet   ar    par darf 199-7 -1   Prntatn r Petantaf. pet capibe Fs                   dirnaltr       f Eats  rrat      r    male. ndg ed.. feal        Icttttp ao
n    npl .f odpe  a.-    let cu tpl  of 1toa  is      . dei ed as - aoe,   t           nliyrtsaeorptda   oa,ml,cadeselhrfcse
a      Yoarso  60gti fttl  oolopody  n   0grm    ftnmlan                                  9    199,Iad d     , 1909 de .ra. mcasbsda  It,EeY-.     patheieal b         te
puspott, a   Ic   1gotcol   eala   rnI,   le   aE-ofoto    g-a   eoa    of.i- thepaplasum   s dfl                                                            -fg otmetred,
ered food" duey Ag0...6t, 100P       t  17  dae                                                 o    h  ttl  ao  fr
Pe   air   r rsi le su Ply  oa  cdatma.l and ..la-Fatru i- suplyofd  edd
rio   ocuiascd. plt   In gosape  day;, L9A-B,190Rtd107ORtCE~~
ortan duos d7erlned1fo9r infe  Tctiea;bDOlE,e 1070 and 1979.data,tof1tauctlaldte
ut  Irt; 160  1071 tad 1979f ~de-tal.                                                             adsoudh  Itrreadib  oedealgoal
dfae  e  thocco,ivg   htht                                                                  Atloepoerytoat   evlitthtinom   en    als                         iaha hfia
taee eFi    Iacue   tyeedcrlc  Oter  or unre  a hut lotnutamltated1979I.,.
k  sta   ta  rd oedbrhls  inFIne,ca  snlarml                                   Estiate  telary    oet   coa  ea I_epcaoe       ec   a   oc
Isattrtuo'Y                                                                                       turde  rehl.rune       1 povert  fc ... leve  ta - . on-tIr  af t. aveag  pe tIt
duareetapoudepf        aciaaepryfltairle abdcliogrha~                                    pot'
dfastlp190caa70ttd19e9dtt.
lootstatotaa Isooci I      7rcet o  ocoltio-ool,oI tc  and rural -.  .   ti,,i-
Nude  of  eapa fotal  ucht,  nd ttal  snoedi by   cdea dIposl a
penoaag    plyo theI  rtespciv    ptoatoc   T         Itot  dtspas"al  ayg irotludbe960
and fast-eaer     P.rtr-on   sPet ds c  nhs - ue o  0i  print  end aisu                                                          I nal  dtytKsdFoatia    eprc
lu   uaalcins                                                                                                                                     rcP18
Pauatnret Pfinc f          aFul__~eeolantb' dtiadO  nuyl de  ofi poaolib  plya'-
PeI.a..... of  60rStrn- Pasf  ---gopula-tiro dIvIdede bp tooler of practlci..og,Y
sal e Ptd etoca1lt gyadnaertd toyad, 20oloa  outec   and cat itar  rte.d190190   .179dt,7-    f                                                       .IO'       tipt    lt



-22-
BARBADOS:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
AVERAGE
ANNUAL
Actual                            Est.  GROWTH RATE             Actual            Est.
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981    1976-80   1976    1979          1980    1981
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                    Constant 1976 US$ million                                         As percentage of GDP
Gross Domestic Product                    422.8      441.8       465.1      505.6      530.2                  5.0    100.0   100.0    100.0
Imports of goods - NFS                    278.8      296.6       315.7      357.0      402.0                  8.0      65.9    70.6       75.8
Exports of goods - NFS                    220.9      259.6       301.6      359.0      383.7                 12.5      52.2    71.0       72.4
Consumption a/                            397.2      396.8       385.4      400.4      432.8                  2.0      94.0    79.2       81.6
Investment b/                              83.5       82.0        93.8      103.2      115.7                  7.0      19.7    20.4       21.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                         Current US$ million                                              As pecentage of total
Retained Imports
Consumer goos                            91.0      102.1      114.0      139.9       171.2    180.0                  41.8    38.0       38.5   35.5
Intermediate goods (exc. fuels)          53.8       61.4       71.7        95.8      107.9    117.5                  24.7    26.1       24.3   23.2
Fuels c/                                 20.1       18.1        16.9       23.7       32.6      59.3                  9.2      6.5       7.3   11.7
Capital goods                            47.1       56.4        71.0      103.4      133.8    150.7                  21.6    28.1       30.1   29.6
Other                                     5.6        8.0         8.9        4.6       -1.3        -                   2.7      1.3      -0.2      -
Total                                   217.6      246.0      282.5      367.4       444.2    507.5                 100.0   100.0    100.0  100.0
Domestic Exports
Primary Pro ucts                         31.7       33.7        33.2       39.0       69.7      47.2                 47.5    33.5       41.5   30.3
Manufactured Products                    35.0       41.9       60.0        77.4       98.4    108.5                  52.5    66.5       58.5   69.7
Total                                    66.7       75.6       93.2       116.4      168.1    155.7                 100.0   100.0    100.0  100.0
Fiscal Year d/ at Current US$ million                                         As percentage of GDP e/
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980                                  ;7                    1980
PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Current revenue                           115.2      132.6       165.4      192.1      236.7                                27.2       29.4       29.4
Current expenditure                       107.8      117.3       130.7      153.6      193.5                                25.5       23.5       24.0
Current surplus/deficit                     7.4        15.3       34.7       38.5       43.2                                 1.7        5.9        5.4
Capital revenue                             -           -          0.2        0.3        -                                   -          -          -
Capital expenditure and net lending    31.5            44.0       36.3       48.1       74.8                                 7.4        7.3         9.3
overall surplus/deficit                   -24.1      -28.7        -1.4       -9.3      -31.6                                -5.7       -1.4       -3.9
Financing (net)                            24.1        28.7        1.4        9.3       31.6                                 5.7        1.4        3.9
External                                 (6.0)    (14.0)       (15.1)      (6.4)    (33.0)                                (1.4)      (1.0)      (4.0)
Domestic                                (18.1)     (14.7)   (-13.7)        (2.9)    (-1.4)                                (4.3)      (0.4)     (-0.1)
OUTPUT LABOR FORCE AND                            Value Added            Employment             V. A. Per Worker
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980                          US$ Mln.       2       Thiousands          7      U-
Agriculture                                  72.0        10.0        9.3        9.3           7742          108.1
Industry                                    138.0        19.2       23.3       23.2           5923           82.7
Services                                    508.4        70.8       67.7       67.5           7509          104.8
Unallocated                                     .          .          .
Total/Average                          718.4      100.0      100.3       100.0          7162           100.0
a/  Private consumption estimated as a residual.
b/  Includes changes in stock.
c/ Differs from custom figures because of timing adjustment.
d/ Barbados' fiscal year runs from April to March.
e/ As percentage of previous calendar year GDP.



BARBADOS                                                                               ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMfENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                                   Est.
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980       1981
Exports of Goods - NFS                 220.9       276.2      345.9       454.5      594.5       602.0
Goods                                 88.9       108.0      131.1       176.5      202.1       177.7
Domestic s/                        (68.8)     (81.5)      (99.2)    (118.5)   (168.1)   (155.7)
Re-exports b/                      (20.1)     (26.5)      (31.9)     (58.0)      (34.0)      (22.0)
NFS                                  132.0       168.2      214.8       278.0      392.4       424.3
Travel                           (101.3)   (130.5)   (162.2)   (208.0)    (253.7)    (266.9)
Other                              (30.7)     (37.7)      (52.6)     (70.0)    (138.7)   (157.4)
Imports of Goods - NFS                 280.4       319.1      372.2       498.4      622.3       694.3
Goods                                237.6       272.5      314.3       425.4      525.5       585.0
Retained c/                      (217.5)   (246.0)    (282.4)   (367.4)    (444.2)   (507.5)
Re-exports                         (20.1)     (26.5)      (31.9)     (58.0)      (81.3)     (77.5)
NFS                                   42.8        46.6       57.9        73.0       96.8       109.3
Resources Balance                    -59.5      -42.9       -26.3      -43.9       -27.8       -92.3
Net Factor Services                      2.2        -1.8         1.7       -1.5        -8.5      -12.4
of which interest on
public debt                     (-2.0)      (-2.0)     (-3.1)      (-5.0)      (-5.9)     (n.a.)
Current Transfers                       12.8        15.9         16.7      22.0       21.6       21.7
Current Account                      -44.5       -28.8        -7.9    -23.4        -14.7    -83.0
Net Public Disbursements d/              5.4         7.7         15.3       7.0       27.5       64.0
Disbursements                        7.2       14.8         19.7       11.8       33.7     (n.a.)
Amortization                         1.8        7.1          4.4        4.8        6.2    (n.a.)
(US$ million)
Commercial Banks                         5.9        -3.6        -2.3       -0.4         4.2       3.0                  EXTERNAL DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE g/                         Actual
1976     1977       1978     1979     1980
Private Capital                         21.0        15.8         17.6      24.8         1.7      -5.3
and errors and omissions                                                                                             Public Debt
Outstanding at end of period             31.8   48.7       63.7      69.2     78.5
Special Transactions e/                  0.1        -0.2        -0.6        1.6         1.6       1.3                    Outstanding at beginning                 26.7    31.8       48.7      63.7     n.a.
Change in Net Official Inter-                                                                                        Interest on Public Debt                     2.0      2.0       3.1       5.0      5.8
national Reserves                   12.1        9.1        -22.1      -9.6       -20.3      20.0                     Amortization                              1.8     7.1        4.4      6.8       8.1
-  Increase)
As of                                                                      Debt Service                              3.8     9.1        7.5     11.8      13.9
December 1980
US$ mil.                                                                         Debt Service Ratio h/                     2.2     4.3        2.9      3.6       3.0
Total       %
IBRD Share in Public Debt %               -       -         -         -        1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                           78.5       100.0                                                              .  IBRD Share in Debt Service Z              -        -         -         -        1.4
IBRD                                   0.9         1.1
Other Multilateral                    36.4       46.4
Bilateral                             25.3        32.2
Financial Markets                     15.8        20.2
Other Private                          0.1         0.1
a/  Includes sugar valuation adjustment.
1/  Includes stores and hunkers.
c/  Differs from official custom figures because of adjustments to re-exports of
stores and bunkers.
d/  Excludes Central Bank.
e/  Includes SDR transactions and exchange profits and losses on net official international reserves.
F/  Minus - increase.
g/  Includes Central Bank.
h/  A percentage of domestic esports and tourist receipts.



- 24-                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BARBADOS
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1981
US$ million
(Amount less cancellation)
Loan          Year       Borrower      Purpose      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1642-BAR      1979       Barbados      Education    9.0      -         6.8
1685-BAR      1979       Barbados      Tourism       8.0     -         7.5
1813-BAR      1980       Barbados      Industry    10.0      -         9.2
1940-BAR      1981       BLPC          Power         6.0     -         6.0
TOTAL                     33.0      -       29.5
of which as been repaid    -        -         -
TOTAL Outstanding         33.0      -       29.5
=              -
B.  Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1981
None.
C. Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1981 1/
Ln. No. 1642-BAR: Barbados Education Project; US$9.0 million Loan of
December 29, 1978; Effective Date:  December 29, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is progressing according to schedule. All Phase
I construction contracts are proceeding satisfactorily with three (out of
ten) schools substantially completed. Equipment procurement for this phase
is in progress. Final designs for Phase II (nine schools) are complete;
tender documents for one school have been issued. About 24% of the loan
has been disbursed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Ln. No. 1685-BAR: Barbados Tourism Project; US$8.0 million Loan of
April 27, 1979; Effective Date: August 24, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is experiencing some delays from the original
schedule. The bypass road is virtually completed. Civil works contracts
are in progress for the majority of buildings, including hotels and
apartels. On site infrastructure (water, drainage and road system) is also
being constructed.
Ln. No. 1813-BAR:  Barbados Industrial Development and Export Promotion
Project; US$10.0 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: August 28, 1980
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing on schedule except for the
industrial credit component that is ahead of schedule and has committed to
date 67% of its loan component, and is expected to commit the balance of
its component towards mid-1982. BIDC has introduced its new pricing
policy; however, its financial performance continues to deteriorate mainly
due to higher construction costs and the delayed and limited effects of
recent increases in rent on old leases that have yet to expire. The Export
Promotion Corporation (EPC) is fully staffed now and is currently executing
its plan of action which includes an export grant and incentive scheme to
be financed under the project. NTB and BIMAP have both prepared their
proposals for use of funds allocated to them under the project.
Ln. No. 1940-BAR: Barbados Power Project; US$6.0 million Loan of
February 19, 1981; Effective Date: November 30, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on November 30, 1981. Bids for
all equipment financed under the loan have been received and some awards
made. Studies on generation expansion planning, energy conservation and
regulatory procedures are in progress. Consultants for tariff studies have
been selected. Other components of the capital investment program are
progressing satisfactorily.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a)  A sectoral mission identified the project in
October, 1980. Follow-up missions further
developed and discussed the project with the
Government in May, July and August 1981.
(b) Appraisal: n/a
(c) Negotiations completed: January, 1982
(d) Planned date of loan effectiveness: May 1982.
Section II:         Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:
1.   It would be a condition of disbursement of the energy
conservation component that the Energy Conservation Unit
in the Department of Energy be established and
adequately staffed (paras. 59 and 67).
2.   The Government would assign qualified personnel as
counterparts to the consultants and arrange that key
counterparts be in position before consultants take up
their posts (para 60).



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
BARBADOS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary Terms of Reference of Consultants
AGRICULTURE
A. Medium-term Specialists
1. Lead Advisor
Prior to the arrival of the other members of the team, a
lead advisor, with broad experience in agricultural
institutions, policymaking and marketing, would assist and
advise the Government on priority actions and policy
adjustments needed to strengthen the institutions involved
in the agricultural sector, and would also help define
appropriate roles of the agricultural institutions in the
diversification process and ensure coordination among
them. He would, with counterpart staff, prepare detailed
recommendations in this regard, including target dates and
institutional responsibilities for implementation of the
key recommendations. He will reassess and, as appropriate,
update the specific technical assistance needs and
recommend to the Government and the Bank, detailed terms of
reference for the entire team of consultants. After about
six months on these tasks, he would continue, as
appropriate, on helping coordinate and guide the technical
assistance program and the implementation of the program of
institutional and/or policy adjustments identified and
agreed with the Government. If possible (i.e., if the
advisor has a strong background in one of the other
specific areas of technical assistance to be provided such
as extension), he would take on those specific tasks as
well as be team leader.
2. One Agricultural Extension Specialist (tentatively defined)
The agricultural extension specialist would focus in
particular on means to strengthen the extension service and
assist the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture in
reorganizing and improving this service. His duties in the
extension area will be:
a) to help carry out a diagnostic survey of the
agricultural extension service, to identify the
needs (organizational structure, manpower,
procedures, technical expertise, training) to enable
the service to be more effective;



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
b) to assist in reorganizing the service both at the
headquarter level and the regional/local level;
c) to introduce advanced extension methods, and assist
in their implementation, especially at the field
level;
d) to assist in the preparation of training programs
for the extension staff and farmers and to help in
their implementation; and
e) to assist in the preparation of radio and television
programs directed at farmers and in the preparation
of extension guidance bulletins.
3. One Vegetable Production Specialist (tentatively defined)
The main function of the vegetable extension specialist
will be to establish, within the framework of the
agricultural extension service, a system for guidance and
technical assistance to vegetable growers. More
specifically, this function will be:
a)  to carry out a survey of the vegetables that can be
grown on the island and to collect agrotechnical and
economic data and information about such crops;
b) to assist in preparing training courses for
vegetable growers, and to help in their
implementation;
c) to assist in publishing and disseminating
information and data about vegetable production; and
d) to guide and support extension agents working in the
field with vegetable growers.
4. One Irrigation Specialist (tentatively defined)
This specialist will help to assist the Ministry of
Agriculture in introducing to the farmers of Barbados water
management systems and methods of efficient water
utilization. More specifically he will:
a) reassess the current and future water use situation
on the island;
b)  assist in improving the existing irrigation system,
design an appropriate water management system and
assist in its implementation;
c) assist in accelerating the well drilling program;
5. One Marketing Specialist (tentatively defined)
This specialist will help develop a system, within the
extension service, that will transfer essential market
information to farmers. His duties will include:



- 29 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
a) identification of alternative marketing arrangements
and outlets and assist in the development of
improved systems;
b) to develop a system that will transfer to farmers
on a regular periodic basis, market information
covering prices and quantities;
c) to assist in establishing farmer marketing
organizations, within existing or newly established
marketing organizations; and
d) to introduce improved methods of produce handling
a                         and packing.
B. Short-term Specialists (tentatively defined)
1. One Peanut-growing Specialist
This specialist will assess peanut production on the island
and, if found to be a viable operation, he will assist the
extension service staff in reviving production of this crop
on the island. He will conduct a brief diagnostic survey
to determine what measures should be taken to extend peanut
production and recommend modifications in the production
system to increase the profitability of this crop to
farmers.
2. One Fruit-growing Specialist
The function of the fruit-growing specialist will be to
assess the fruit-growing situation on the island and to
make recommendations regarding the kinds and varieties of
fruits which should be extended and the most suitable
regions for such fruits.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
1. Main Advisor
The main advisor will advise and assist ECU's Director in
a) staffing the ECU;
b) formulating policy, programming, sponsoring,
coordinating and budgeting for energy conservation;
organizing and maintaining an energy accounting system;
d) monitoring the conservation program;
e) preparing sample aggregated and disaggregated data
models (for all sectors and by measures) showing the
impact and benefit of conservation measures;
f) supervising the work of other project consultants;



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
2. Training Consultants
The role of the training consultants will be to:
a) prepare and conduct training courses on energy
management in industry and commerce, and on the more
technical and specialized aspects of energy
conservation. The management courses would be
structured for ECU staff and for energy managers in
industry and commerce; the more advanced courses
would be for engineers.  The energy management
courses would cover topics such as energy audits,
identification of energy losses and financial
assessment of possible conservation measures. The
more technical and specialized courses could
complement and expand on energy audits, heat
recovery, changes in processes and equipment and
potential for fuel substitution and cogeneration.
Counterpart instructors would be trained throughout
to ensure continuation of benefits. These courses
would be carried out in association with BIMAP and
in cooperation with BLPC, BHA and BAPE, and would
include on-the-job training and case studies;
b) advise on the measuring instruments to be procured;
c) advise on the contents of an energy management and
technical library.
3. Promotion Consultant
His role would be to advise and assist on:
a) the planning, coordination and implementation of a
national, energy conservation promotion and
information campaign;
b) maintaining its vigor and momentum;
c) monitoring and evaluating the results of the
program.
4. Transportation Consultant
His role would be to review the surface transportation
study already made for the Government to advise on which
specific measures incorporated in the study could be
given priority for implementation on account of their
potential for early energy savings. Such measures
could--among others--include traffic management,
maintenance, reduction of bottlenecks, road works.



BARBADOS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                  ANNEX V
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                      Page 1 of 1
1982                                     1983                                      1984                                      1985
J, F, M. A,  M  J  J  A  S O             J IFIMiAI|M I T IJ IA         0  M D n     .    II,  F  M IA   M Is  J  IT  A  S  0    N  D   I. I F     M   A    M    T   T  A  q C  m ,E  n
ER'a=atvOSUE:.N t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1- - tT1  
AGRicuLTURAL
COMPONENT
Team Leader & Extension*
Vegetable Spec.
Irrigation Spec.
Marketing Spec,
Peanut Spec.
Fruit Spec.
Unspecified Short-term T.A.
Sub-Projects
Fellowships
ENERGY CONSERVAT ION
Main advisor - ECU
Training
Promotion
Transportation
Unspecified T.A.
Overseas Training
*Assumes that lead advisor is also extension method specialist.



V
4



IBRD-11044R
C n 80°  @   70-        ~~~FEBRUARY 1962j
NVor/A PotH                   )'"x                                ALANT/Ct
o/              O~~~~~~0CEANI 
2       '_              0    400
CL,                            KMS.
rRABHIUL                                             C0                                                    400
CRAbHILL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
_          ODOMINIC41\              20-S
PIE CORNER                             GA0 4 2$      T      N4M                  20r
X   S T. L4U C Y  .;   '.    v                            JAMAICA
Caribbean   Seo                  BARBADOS
CLINKETT\                              }                                / t 0ax v _ PANAMA   -  .        '->-
SOUTH   AMERICA              s 
70'
SPEIGHS  .-   /                        0                                              Thin nap h.s hts.n Potprod by the
t ~~~~TOWN                                         L ST              tsj.AINE        W.  .,s stof _Wol f 
SPIHS                                                                                  ti ai '    it X  Xe -- - f
TOWN                         7-                                                        rp-t t     < hch it is tt-ht i
TAn d.nonto.ton  ood nod thtt
bonMn   ho,n o  thinnsp
PS                                     ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d,,o tnf t thn potS f tf,t
Worid Swk &nd its af#04its, 05-Y
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h AV.1 ///"Ad , 
\;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n t'n on or an en    ;0                0 SCdOt*Oe
ora   - -ancox  n,,h -otisd e.
/   CTTtWAS  ~.BATHSHEBA0
H %LETROWN   I  H G      ST        E                       D     D1 
HOLETOWN         ~~~SIT. TH?A'q T   O N                                        ~.Rgged Point
/    '      <MARLE5?7 >
8 BR[DGETOWN   )   .........................................   - :         <-ILG
I  HASIINGS   _  :                  /   /             - AHRPORJ\-CR
ST. LA      W RENCE                           /-=
BARBADOS                                    Point
.   AGRICULTURAL LAND USE PLAN
Arable land suitable for mechanical cultivation       *      Sugar factories
HArble lnd unsuita'ble for mechanical cultSvation           Beaches
, -   Pasture lan1d with  mimted irrigation                    -Irrigation boundaries
1     7                                               So gordening with limited irrigation  Mojor roods
bGulles and steand snd suitoble for forest, fruit,vation     Parish boundories
citrus and baonanas, windbreak trees.                     Main built-up areas
A     Zones capable of opproximately equal sugar         ---  International boundaries
yields (not defined)                            0      1     2      3     A      5
I      I      I   ,       !     I
MILES



