                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                           Report No. 33413




                SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                             THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA


                    SECOND PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                 LOAN NO. 4743-BUL


                                   November 4, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                    For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations

Operation ID: P081637                Operation Name: Bulgaria ­ Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Rosalinda Quintanilla   TL Unit: ECSPE
                                     Report Date: November 4, 2005


1. Program Data

                Name:    Programmatic Adjustment Loan             Loan Number:     4743-BUL
  Country/Department:    Bulgaria/ECSPE                                  Region:   Europe and Central Asia
      Sector/subsector:  Public Sector Governance & Multi-Sector
               Theme:    Public expenditure, financial management and procurement
                         Administrative and civil service reform
                         Standards and financial reporting
                         Regulation and competition policy
                         Education for all


KEY DATES
                                                                         Original              Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:     April 29, 2003                                Effective:  August 24, 2004       August 24, 2004
   Appraisal:  March 15, 2004                                   MTR:     Not applicable
   Approval:   June 10, 2004                                  Closing:   December 31, 2004     March 31, 2005


   Borrower/Implementing Agency:      The Republic of Bulgaria/ Council for Economic Policy
                  Other Partners:     Council for State Administration Modernization
                                      Inter-ministerial Working Group for the Optimization of Regulatory Regimes
                                      Consultative Council for Financial Stability
                                      Poverty Monitoring Unit, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
                                      Labor Standards Measurement Unit, National Statistical Institute
                                      Council on Economic Growth
                                      Tax Council



STAFF                      Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Anand Seth                                Anand Seth
Sector Manager:            Deborah Wetzel                            Helga Muller
Team Leader at ICR:        Rosalinda Quintanilla                     Neil Parison
ICR Primary Author:        Camille Nuamah




                                                         2

2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: Satisfactory
                                      Sustainability: Likely
               Institutional Development Impact: Substantial
                               Bank Performance: Satisfactory
                          Borrower Performance: Highly Satisfactory



                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                 Quality at Entry: Not applicable                      Satisfactory
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time:        No


3. Program Description

The Bulgaria Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) Program had as its objectives the achievement of 4.5 ­ 5.0
percent average annual growth in GDP during 2002-2005, the reduction of poverty by half between 2001 and
2005, and the reduction of unemployment from 18.1 percent in 2001 to 12-14 percent in 2005, while making
substantial progress toward accession to the European Union (EU), targeted for 2007. The medium-term
program balances a strategy of private sector-led growth with reducing social exclusion and increasing
empowerment to ensure wide participation in growth. The program consists of five complementary pillars ­

   · Sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise sector with emphasis on the completion of
       privatization and on the restructuring of the energy, railway, telecommunications, and water
       sectors;

   · Establishing a market-friendly business environment, focusing on reducing entry and exit
       constraints and regulatory costs, improving the delivery of public services to business, and
       enhancing the competitive environment, including through continuing labor market reform;

   · Deepening the financial sector by improving the legal framework for lending, completing
       banking reform, and developing financial markets;

   · Improving public sector governance by strengthening public administration capacity, improving
       service delivery, reducing corruption, strengthening accountability and transparency,
       strengthening public expenditure management, and increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of
       the judicial system; and

   · Investing in human capital and strengthening social programs by improving quality, access and
       efficiency in education and health, continuing pension reforms, increasing social assistance
       effectiveness, providing for better integration of the disabled and reducing the institutionalization
       of children.

The Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL2) focused primarily on advancing the public sector
governance and public administration reform agendas in Bulgaria. At the same time, the operation continued
emphasis on structural, financial sector and business environment reforms advanced under PAL1.                          Less
progress was, however, made on the further clarifying or initiating the labor reform agenda which was to have
been a main focus of PAL3.

Given the institutional development nature of PAL-2 reform focus, which would not have full impact for
several years, the objectives in this area were appropriately scaled down to laying the groundwork and



                                                              3

beginning implementation of the reform program. As such, the main achievements prior to Board presentation
and approval were: (1) the detailed specification of a reform program including identification of goals,
formulation of strategies and implementation plans, and establishment of monitoring systems; and (2) some
initial implementation including establishment of the legal framework in some cases, and piloting reforms to be
later scaled up in others. Continued implementation of this reform agenda through PAL 3 has already yielded
good outcomes.


4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) covers the period following board approval of the PAL program
and PAL1 (February 20, 2003) through the date of this report. This period also includes the preparation and
approval of PAL3 (see Table 1 below). The PAL2 program covers triggers for PAL2 preparation specified in
the PAL1 Program Document, final Board conditions for PAL2, indicative benchmarks specified in the PAL2
Program Document, and actions adequately specified in PAL2 Letter of Development Policy that were
completed prior to PAL3 Board approval and not originally specified as PAL3 actions.

                                               Table 1: Key Program Dates
                                    PAL 1                    PAL 2                   PAL 3
                             Concept: Apr 4, 2002
                             Approval: Feb 20, 2003
                                                      Concept: Apr 29, 2003
                             Closing: Dec 31, 2003
                                                     Approval: Jun 10, 2004
                               ICR: Jun 30, 2004
                                                                              Concept: Jul 14, 2004
                                                      Closing: Mar 31, 2005
                                                                              Approval: Jun 2, 2005
                                                      ICR: November 2005
                                                                              Closing: Mar 31, 2006
                                                                               ICR: Sep 30, 2006



a. Objectives

The PAL 2 was a successful operation, notwithstanding the unfinished Bulgartabak privatization, cancellation
of the second (floating) tranche for which this was the sole condition, and the related extension of the closing
date from December 31, 2004 to March 31, 2005. The wide scope of the reform program meant that not all the
components were achieved equally (see Section 4b. Outputs, below) but the majority were achieved in full. The
program objectives of sustaining economic growth and making substantial progress on the reform agenda for
EU accession were achieved during the period under review (see Table 2). Progress on reducing unemployment
has been less robust related, in part, to the more limited labor market reforms undertaken during program than
earlier envisaged. The specific focus of the PAL2 operation in the overall program ­ public sector reform in
support of the EU accession agenda ­ was fully achieved, taking into account the particular role that
development policy lending can play in supporting institutional development agendas such as this.

Regarding the program's macroeconomic objectives, the economy grew as projected between 4-5 percent per
year, inflation and public sector indebtedness were reduced, and international reserves and fiscal balances
increased. Steady implementation of structural reforms has strengthened Bulgaria's fundamentals for sustaining
growth. The country experienced significant financial deepening with a rapid expansion of domestic credit to
the private sector during the program period. The state's withdrawal from commercial banking/financial
activities was essentially completed under PAL2 (98% of banking assets and 100% of insurance assets are in
private hands), as was a long-running program to strengthen supervision in the financial sector (started under
the earlier Financial Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loans). One key outcome has been the preservation of
strong prudential ratios during the credit expansion. In addition, Bulgaria's energy intensity of GDP has



                                                               4

declined, access and quality to telecom services were improved, and the railway sector has moved in the
direction of financial stability, essentially as intended under the PAL program. Less progress was made on
private participation in the water sector where the strategy was changed mid-program but advances made in the
regulatory framework, and on environmental regulation which remains a crucial area for the EU accession
agenda. Starting with PAL2, the Government has also made significant progress on rationalizing business
regulations, establishing the capacity to protect and promote competition, facilitating tax and customs
compliance, and addressing gaps in the legal framework for insolvency processing. However, it may be too
soon to attribute any outcomes in private investment and job creation to these measures.

As a result, the private sector share of GDP in Bulgaria has grown (although the program target of increasing
the share by 12 percent of GDP during 2001-05, may have been too optimistic) ­ fuelled by a brisk privatization
program, and a related boom in foreign direct investment. However, because much of the FDI boom remains
focused on inward-oriented activities, sustaining growth will require continued improvements in
competitiveness and the business environment.

The 2002 Country Assistance Strategy, the Government's reform program1 and the EU accession roadmap for
Bulgaria emphasized the need to strengthen the capacity and credibility of the public administration and
judiciary. With a high level of state capture and medium level of administrative corruption, Anti-corruption in
Transition (2000) ranked Bulgaria lower than other EU accession candidates. Bulgaria's fiscal adjustment
program, which had hitherto focused mainly on increasing revenues, called for expenditure rationalization as
privatization proceeds were expected to level off. Bulgaria also needed to address long neglected infrastructure
needs in order to maintain growth performance. As such, under the program, the PAL2 was designed to focus
on key areas of public sector reform and governance, including expenditure management.                 Given the
institutional development nature of these reforms, a realistic schedule for seeing outcomes, based on experience
with OECD countries, would be 2007. However, it must be noted that Bulgaria has made exceptional progress
on the early part of this program and already, under PAL3, achieved a critical mass in usually difficult areas like
civil service and budget reform.

Under PAL 2, the Government developed a comprehensive approach to public administration reform,
strengthened reform management, improved the system for monitoring implementation and outcomes, and
implemented programs in the areas of civil service recruitment and remuneration, organizational structures and
service standards. In 2004, all career civil service selections were based on open competition (compared with
just 15 percent of external recruitments 2002) or merit-based criteria, performance appraisals are being
implemented across the civil service, and the legal framework is in now in place to link performance to pay and
advancement. In the area of expenditure management, the Government successfully piloted and started rolling
out program budgeting in line ministries, piloted the external auditing of program budgets, and strengthened and
entrenched its Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) program in the 2005 budget by, inter alia,
introducing multi-year programs at the line ministries level that align with aggregate forward estimates.
Improvements in the institutional framework and practices for managing capital investment have resulted in the
continued recovery of investment expenditures (as a share of GDP) as well as a rise in spending on operations
and maintenance. From 2005 the central government has effectively addressed key issues in intergovernmental
finance, viz unfunded mandates and associated arrears buildup. Under PAL2, the government undertook a
number of pilots and finalized the methodology for functional reviews that aim to align government structures
and roles with requirements of the acquis communitaire. The progress made to date resulted in the signing of
the EU Accession Treaty in April 2005. Measures intended to advance the rollout of the treasury information
system were postponed (and removed from PAL3) owing to the Bank's later evaluation that the system, which
had been introduced under the project of two other development partners, may not be appropriate for Bulgaria
at this time.



1Executive Program for the Republic of Bulgaria


                                                         5

Bulgaria has also seen a significant decline in the perception of corruption over the PAL program period.
Recent surveys indicate that the number of firms reporting corruption to be a problem, including the frequency
and value of unofficial payments have declined substantially. In addition, NGO surveys report a continued
reduction in corruption pressures and transactions as perceived by the general population. However, there are
a number of areas, in particular government contracting and certain types of business inspections, that have not
seen much progress and require renewed focus.

The PAL2 operation did make some progress on the social agenda intended to be the focus on PAL3,
particularly on improving the legal framework for reducing exclusion of minority, disabled and institutionalized
children and labor market discrimination of the disabled as sources of vulnerability, developing a strategy for
education reform, and, in a more limited way, on rationalizing financing in the health system. The most
successful outcome was in the area of pension reform for which key and phased actions were included in each
of the PAL operations. Bulgaria has successfully modernized its pension system to include a modern range of
options, including private and voluntary pensions, improved governance and is making progress in stabilizing
key financial ratios.

The key shortcoming of PAL2 was that reform of Bulgaria's labor market regulations ­ originally envisaged
and still needed to translate the strong growth performance into needed private sector job creation, and to
improve competitiveness under the currency board arrangement ­ did not take off. The dramatic fall in
unemployment from 18 percent in 2002 to 12 percent in 2004 was mainly due to a massive government-
sponsored active labor market program which re-introduced around 100,000 long term unemployed to relatively
low-productivity jobs and the mandatory registration of labor contracts during 2003. The small and medium
enterprise share of value added and employment ­ a rough proxy for new enterprise (and job) formation rose
only marginally over the period. As such, sustainability of these gains is questionable.

                              Table 2: Interim Progress against PAL Program Objectives

              Program Targets                           Baseline           Before PAL 2             Outcomes
           PAL1 & 2 Program Docs                     2001 or latest             2002                latest data
Sustain growth rates of 4.5-5% (2002-05)                  4.1                   4.9             5.0 (Avg 2003-04)
Halve poverty rate of 2001 rate by 2005                   24                                       21.9 (2003)
Reduce unemployment rate to 12-14% by 2005                19.8                  17.8               12.0 (2004)
  Increase labor force participation rate                 50.4                                     49.7 (2004)
  Improve employment rate                                 40.6                                     43.7 (2004)
  Reduce share of long term unemployed               62 (2001) CAS                                 59.3 (2004)
Maintain a stable macro framework                                                                   2.3 (2003)
    CPI inflation (period average)                        7.5                   5.8                 6.1 (2004)
    Public debt (domestic and external)                   69.9                  56.2               40.9 (2004)
    Overall fiscal balance                                -0.8                  -0.6                1.8 (2004)
    External current account deficit                      -7.3                  -5.6               -8.5 (2004)
    Gross foreign exchange reserves (months
    imports)                                              5.2                   5.6                 6.1 (2004)

                                           Pillar 1: Maintain structural reforms
Privatization
Reduce number of state-owned enterprises             Govt maj. share in 440 firms (2002)          90 (Sept 2005)
                                                     Govt min. share in 1800 firms (2002)         653 (Jan 2005)
Energy
Energy intensity of GDP down 15% from 2001 by       0.397 kg oil equ.         0.374       0.357 (2004) ­ 10% reduction
  end 2005                                           per 2000 PPP
Telecom
Increase household internet access to 94%                                                           Achieved
Connection waiting time to less than 1 month                                                        Achieved
Digitalize 100% of the transfer network, 82% of                                           94% transfer network, 79%
  exchanges & 46% of subscriber capacity                                                  exchanges, 33% subscriber
Railway
Reduce railway labor force by 20% by 2004                                                       Down 13% (2004)



                                                                  6

               Program Targets                           Baseline           Before PAL 2               Outcomes
            PAL1 & 2 Program Docs                     2001 or latest             2002                  latest data
Increase financial working ratio to105%                                                               100% (2004)
Op'g subsidies (excl inv funds) down to 0.2%GDP        0.5% (2000)                                    0.2% (2004)
Water
Award two RWC concessions by end 2003                                                            PPI strategy changed.
RWCs op'g cost/rev down to 86% by end 2005                                                            88% (2004)
Environment
Issue 225 pollution permits by end 2005
Issue all enterprise permits by end 2007

                                       Pillar 2: Market friendly business environment
Private sector % of GDP to 70% by end 2005                  62.9                 63.1               66.0 (Q1:2005)
FDI inflows US$1B /yr 2002-05 with 50% in                US$813 m                905m               2,450 m (2004)
  green-field investments
SME share of value added & empl oyment up              31% VA (2001)              34                   36 (2003)
  by 50% end 2005                                     52% empl (2001)             54                   57 (2003)
TFP growth of 2.5% during 2002-05                                     3.8% annual growth during 1998-2003
Eliminate 71 & modify 121 of the 360 centrally                                               80% of 360 regimes modified
  mandated regimes by end 2004                                                                     and/or eliminated
Increase competition in private sector
  Number of antitrust decisions                                              64 (2003)             112 ( Nov 2004)
  Number of state aid cases                                                  49 (2003)              106 (Nov 2004)
  EBRD Transition Index on competition policy                                    2+                        2+
Time for processing insolvency cases reduced         3.8 years (2003)                              3.3 years (2004)
Increase labor market flexibility
  Increase labor force participation rate                  50.4                                     50.1 (Q2:2005)
  Improve employment rate                                  40.6                                     56.5 (Sep 2004)
  Reduce share of long term unemployed                      62                                        59.3 (2004)

                                           Pillar 3: Deepening the financial system
Increase M2:GDP ratio to 50% by end 2005                     41                   43                   53 (2004)
Credit to private sector 25% of GDP by end2005              15.0                 19.8                 37.1 (2004)
Private share of banking assets 98% by 2003                                                            98 (2003)
Maintain prudential standards
   Capital adequacy ratio (percent)                         31.3                 25.2                     17.1
   NPLs (% total loans, excl inter-bank loans)              13.1                  8.6                     7.0
Deepen capital markets
  Bank assets (% GDP)                                  41% (Dec '01)        40% (Jun '02)            56% (Jun '04)
  Assets in pension funds (%GDP)                       0.6% (Dec '01)       0.8% (Jun '02)          1.7% (Jun '04)
  Stock market capitalization (% GDP)                  3.7% (Dec '01)       4.1% (Jun '02)          7.3% (Jun '04)
Improve sustainability of private pension funds
  Private pension assets 2% GDP by end 2004
  Pension fund portfolio r/return more than real
    wage growth and state bond yields

                                         Pillar 4: Improve public sector governance
Public administration
Administration capacity developed in areas key to          26 of 30 chapters of aquis         Treaty signed April 2005 for
  EU accession and integration by end 2006                   communitaire closed               Jan 1, 2007 EU Accession
Rationalize government structures to, inter alia                                             Functional reviews undertaken
  meet requirements of EU integration                                                         and functions identified for
                                                                                              competition or outsourcing.
Merit-based civil service employment
Competitive recruitment in civil service                                   15% new posts             All new posts
Public expenditure management
MTEF- & program-based budgeting                            Program budgeting piloted           MTEF introduced in 2005
                                                               in one (1) ministry            7 ministries program based
Improve capital expenditures                            3.9 (%GDP)                3.5                  4.0 (2004)
Increase O&M expenditures                               6.7 (% GDP)               6.8                  7.2 (2004)
By end 2005, external & internal audit reports                                                 Internal audit teams in all
  acted on by remedial actions & system changes                                               central & local gov entities



                                                                  7

               Program Targets                            Baseline           Before PAL 2                   Outcomes
           PAL1 & 2 Program Docs                         2001 or latest          2002                        latest data
Public expenditure management (cont'd)
Conflicts over unfunded mandates eliminated and                                                  2005 budget fully funds all
  hard budget constraints imposed                                                                centrally-mandated functions
                                                                                                 delegated to local govts.
Anti-corruption
Decreased perception of corruption
  % firms reporting corruption as a problem                                      54%                        38% (2005)
  % firms reporting frequent unofficial payments                                 33%                            16%
  Unofficial payments as share of annual sales                                   2.0%                          1.6%

                             Pillar 5: Investing in human capital and strengthening social services
Education
Raise student:teacher ratios
   Primary                                                    17.7                16.8                    16.3(2004/05)
   Middle                                                     13.0                12.8                          12.6
   Secondary                                                  11.3                11.7                          119
Increase net enrolment by end 2005 to
   Primary 97-98%                                             96.3                98.5                    99.7 (2004/05)
   Middle 86-90%                                              82.4                83.1                          84.2
   Secondary 75-80%                                           64.7                68.3                          77.3
School non-attendance ratios of children in
poorest quintile                                              37.2                                          17.2 (2003)
Health
Occupancy ratio in acute care hospitals 85% by
  end 2005                                                    66%                75%                        79% (2003)
No. of new tuberculosis cases per 100,000 persons              48                                            42 (2003)
Under-2 polio immunization coverage                       94.4% (2000)                                      96% (2003)
Pension                                                                                            Social Ins. Code amended to
Achieve stability in benefit indexation &                                                         specify relevant medium term
  contribution base dynamics, and rates by 2005                                                             parameters.
Social assistance
% of child allowance program to poorest quintile              20%                                           36% (2003)
% of heating allowance to poorest quintile                    47%                                           54% (2003)
% of GMI funds going to poorest quintile                      60%                                           74% (2003)
Reduce no. of new disability pensions from 2003              23,370              25,956                   57,397 (2004)
Reduce no. & spending on disability-based social                                                     In 2005, no new disability
  assistance                                                                                        pensions awarded to people
                                                                                                        over retirement age
Exclusion of disabled and institutionalized children
Reduce no. of children in specialized care institutions         9.5% decline in no. of institutionalized children bet. 2001 -03
Increase no. of restructured specialized care institutions      3.5% decline in no. of institutions between 2001-03


b. Outputs

Under PAL 2 the Government took the following actions (boldface type indicates actions that were required as
core conditions for disbursement):

Pillar I: Sustaining structural reforms - Satisfactory

· Completed privatization of DSK (State Savings Bank) in Oct 2003, Shipyard Varna in April 2004, 25
    small hydro-power plants and over 60 percent of remaining small state owned enterprises.

· Opened the energy market to private participation in line with EU Electricity & Gas Directives through the
    enactment of new energy legislation and regulations, implementation of tariff adjustments to achieve cost
    recovery and eliminate cross-subsidization, and strengthening the capacity of the independent regulator. On
    the basis of these reforms, private participation has been forthcoming in gas, district heating, and electricity
    distribution and generation activities under PAL3.



                                                                     8

· Continued restructuring of the railway sector, by reducing the railway labor force by 10 percent over
    2001 levels, formulating a long term strategy for the operating company, rationalizing services including
    the separating freight and passenger services and terminating some 342 km of loss making services (199 km
    under PAL2), increased cost recovery and prepared an agreement with the government to govern the
    provision of non-commercial service. The Government also formulated a long term business plan and
    improved systems and processes for the infrastructure company

· Continued liberalization of the telecom sector, with the enactment of a New Telecommunications Law that
    ensures competition in line with EU accession commitments, institutional strengthening of the
    Communications Regulation Commission, approval of the (subsequent) privatization of the Bulgaria
    Telecommunications Company.

· Adopted a new strategy for the water sector emphasizing private participation and enacted a new Water
    Regulatory Law in January 2005.

· Issued Environmental Impact Assessment regulations, and continued development of a system for issuance
    and control of Integrated Pollution and Control Permits (IPPC) in compliances with the EU directives.


Pillar II: Establishing a market-friendly business environment - Satisfactory

· Streamlined business regulations, by eliminating and/or modifying over 40 percent of the 360 centrally-
    mandated regulatory regimes, enacting new legislation and guidelines to regularize the design and
    implementation of regimes, establishing a comprehensive on-line public registry of regimes to improve
    transparency, simplifying procedures in the construction, tourism and food processing sectors and
    introducing systems for monitoring service standards in building control and the labor inspection functions.

· Strengthened competition policies by adopting regulations for Implementation of the Law on State Aid to
    ensure consistency with the acquis communautaire and developing the institutional capacity of the
    Commission for the Protection of Competition.

· Improved labor regulations, by amending the Labor Code and enacting legislation to discourage
    discrimination, amending the Employment Promotion Act to allow for the private provision of
    employment services, and establishing regulations to improve employer and employee representation in tri-
    partite arrangements.

· Accelerated the resolution of insolvency cases by enacting amendments to the Commercial Code to
    simplify procedures, establish shorter, binding deadlines and strengthen creditor powers, amending the
    Civil Procedure Code to reduce opportunities for appeal and adopting more stringent criteria for trustee
    licensing and dismissal and strengthening monitoring and control by the Ministry of Justice and the courts.

· Improving tax and customs administration by establishing a National Revenue Agency and rolling out
    piloted measures at border crossings and internal customs offices.


Pillar III: Deepening the financial system -- Highly satisfactory

· Completed the outstanding banking reform agenda by: amending the Law on Registered Pledges to increase
    secured lending and the Anti-Money Laundering Law in line with international standards; and enacting new
    legislation against terrorist financing.

· Improved supervision of the financial sector by establishing (enacting legislation and implementing
    technical assistance) the Financial Supervision Commission to oversee the securities markets, insurance
    companies, and pension funds, the Consultative Council for Financial Stability to coordinate all the




                                                        9

    financial services supervisory agencies and implement system-wide monitoring, and a consultation
    mechanism for draft laws and regulations with regulatory agencies.

· Improved the legal framework for capital market development by amending the Commercial Code and the
    Law on Public Offering of Securities to strengthen minority shareholder protection and corporate
    governance.

· Strengthened governance of pensions fund by consolidating the Mandatory Social Insurance Code and the
    Voluntary Supplementary Pensions Insurance Act into a new Social Security Code that toughens
    governance structures and fiduciary standards for private pension funds, introduces global custodianship
    and more flexibility in the investment regime, facilitates the movement of members among funds, and
    prohibits related party activities.


Pillar IV: Improving governance -- Highly satisfactory

· Approved an updated medium term public administration reform strategy and action plan and
    established a monitoring system to track outcomes, with annual reporting to the Cabinet

· Increased the merit basis of the civil service by introducing mandatory open competition for all external
    recruitment, merit-based procedures for filling internal vacancies and clear criteria for which
    procedures apply, by amending the Civil Service Law and introducing related secondary legislation,
    initiating conversion of general administration posts from labor contracts to civil service status, developing
    amendments to Law on State Administration to de-politicize appointments and tenure of senior civil
    servants, implementing the first two rounds of the new performance appraisal system in core ministries, and
    approving the legislative framework for performance-related pay and career advancement.

· Started implementation of program to re-organize all ministries and agencies by completing three pilot
    functional reviews of central administration structures and refining the methodology for a rollout under
    PAL 3, and completing a report which provides the basis for decision on services to be reorganized or
    outsourced.

· Laid the groundwork for introducing service delivery performance standards in all ministries and agencies
    by approving a program and timetable for implementation.

· Continued implementing budget reforms by completing program budgets for 2004 for three pilot
    ministries2) and undertaking a external audit on the first pilot's program budget for 2003, and deepening the
    medium term expenditure framework in the 2005 budget by improving the quality of forecasts and
    aggregate multi-year allocations and introducing multi-year programs at the line ministry level that align
    with aggregate forward estimates.

· Improved the management of capital investment spending by establishing the National Investment Division
    in the Ministry of Finance to coordinate policy, agreeing on medium-term targets for spending on capital
    investment and operations and maintenance and a prioritized program for EU pre-accession funds in the
    2004 budget; establishing a system within Ministry of Finance to record, monitor and report on capital
    investment spending.

· Strengthened the audit function by delegating internal audit teams in all central and local government
    entities, carrying out and reporting on internal audits in all entities, and by developing a multi-year external
    audit program for all agencies, in line with Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
    recommendations.




2Ministries of Environment and Waters, Transport and Communications, and Labor and Social Policy.


                                                        10

· Improved the system of intergovernmental financing by fully funding centrally-mandated delegated
    functions in the 2004 and 2005 budgets based on agreed expenditure standards, adopting a transparent
    mechanisms for allocating revenues to local governments, and agreeing on a program to address
    outstanding municipality arrears.

· Continued implementing the National Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted under PAL1 by approving the
    2004-05 program with specific strategies for education, health and the judiciary, widely disseminating
    the first annual progress report, implementing anti-corruption action plans at the Ministry of Interior and
    in the tax and customs administrations, and strengthening the legal framework for conflict of interest and
    asset declarations.

· Created an appropriate accountability framework for the judiciary by adopting constitutional and
    legislative amendments to limit judicial immunity, irreplaceability, and the mandate of senior judicial
    appointments and introduce performance appraisals, approving a specific Anti-Corruption program for
    the judiciary focusing on random case assignment system, transparent access to court documentation and
    public information; and continuing the program of institutional strengthening at the Supreme Judicial
    Council.


Pillar V: Investing in human capital and strengthening social protection -- Satisfactory

· Improved the coverage and efficiency of social assistance programs by reforming the Guaranteed
    Minimum Income benefit, child allowance and heating benefit rules, amending the Social Assistance
    Act to strengthen the legal framework for private and NGO provision of social assistance, replacing the
    licensing process for services for the disabled, elderly and mentally handicapped with a more open, but
    better controlled registration process, establishing minimum standards for the service provision and
    enacting amendments to the Public Health Law to reduce the misuse of disability pensions.

· Prepared a new national education reform strategy and action plan "National Program for the
    Modernization of Bulgarian Education" emphasizing adjustments to the teaching and learning process, the
    structure, governance, management and financing mechanisms of the education system and changed the
    basis of primary and secondary education funding from inputs to enrollments adjusted for classroom size.

· Improved access and integration of disadvantaged children in the education system by updating the strategy
    and plan for the educational integration of children from minorities, including introducing an obligatory
    pre-school year to benefit early integration of children from minority ethnic groups and conditioning
    monthly child allowance benefits on school attendance, and approval of a plan to reduce the number of
    children in specialized institutions,

· Improved the efficiency of health spending and financing by developing a short-term action plan to
    implement the hospital restructuring strategy, developing a positive drug list to guide reimbursements at
    NHIF, initiating a new cycle of medical facility accreditation, amending the Public Health Law to earmark
    1 percent of the tobacco-related excise tax for national tobacco control programs, harmonizing tobacco
    control legislation with relevant EU directives, and implementing a new mechanism for funding priority
    programs, viz, immunization, HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and tuberculosis control..

· Improving the effectiveness of child protection programs by harmonizing several primary and secondary
    legislation with the Child Protection Act to provide incentives for foster care and community child welfare
    services, preparing comprehensive road maps for the restructuring of all existing childcare institutions and
    introducing new criteria and standards for child care services.

· Improved access by the disabled to education and employment by enacting an Anti-Discrimination Law,
    preparing a draft Act on Integration of People with Disabilities, approving a Strategy for Equal Opportunity
    for the Disabled, and starting implementation of a National Plan for Integration of Children with Special



                                                       11

    Education Needs in the Public Education System by introducing the regular curriculum in a number of
    special education schools.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The successful implementation and likely sustainable outcomes of the PAL program and the PAL2 operation
can be attributed to the very deep commitment and strong capacity of the Government, and the public demand
for moving rapidly on (a wide range of reforms critical to) EU accession. This was, even more so, the basis for
the rapid formulation and strong early progress on the public sector reform agenda.

In some cases, the steadfast implementation of the reform agenda and the resulting outcomes were also
facilitated by support from ongoing Bank operations (namely, the District Heating, Social Investment and
Employment Promotion, Child Welfare, Revenue Administration and Health Sector Reform projects) ­ which
were instrumental in having already advanced the dialogue with the authorities, helping to design specific
policy reforms, and provided technical assistance for implementation and expertise for the supervision of the
PAL2 operation, itself. In the area of public sector reform, where the Bank did not have an ongoing operation,
two factors were crucial. First, the program of completed and ongoing analytical work (Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review, Issues in Intergovernmental Relations, the CFAA and Country Procurement Assessment
Report) helped to inform program design. Second, sustained (from PAL1), intensive and quality advice of Bank
staff was critical. In other areas, the PAL2 was complementary to reforms already being undertaken by the
Government3.

The closing date of PAL2 was extended from December 31, 2004 to March 31, 2005 to enable the Government
to make additional progress on the agreed, detailed steps of the Bulgartabak privatization as the condition for
the second tranche disbursement. However, by end March 2005 such progress was elusive; the operation was
allowed to close and the second tranche cancelled. Several factors contributed to this outcome. At the design
stage, completion of the Bulgartabak privatization was identified (and accepted by the Bank) as a signpost for
the Bulgaria's reform effort. This was the case despite its marginal and declining economic significance (see
PAL3 Program Document), difficulties in earlier attempts to privatize the company, ongoing policy changes
relating to tobacco and tobacco products required for EU accession, and notwithstanding the risk of adverse
market conditions. As a result, an effort was made to condition the PAL2 on, inter alia, completion of the sale
of "50 percent of the assets of the entities of the Bulgartabak Holdings identified as saleable in the Phase 1
Preparation Phase" of the process, rather than the more customary implementation of an appropriate
privatization strategy. Second, adverse market conditions did materialize as only one bid was received for the
one of the two packages of subsidiaries offered for sale, placing the government in the difficult position of
canceling the tranche or accepting the sole offer. At that time (January 2005) additional political opposition
resulted in the investor's withdrawal of the bid and a decision by the authorities to restart the process.

A few other reforms included as indicative benchmarks under PAL2 were not implemented owing to changes in
strategy which were accepted by the Bank. These comprise the rollout of the treasury information system
which was later viewed as inappropriate for Bulgaria at this time and the privatization of the two water systems
which has been postponed owing to market conditions and replaced by an early focus on the regulatory
framework.

The decision was taken early in the preparation of the PAL program4 to focus on the labor market reforms, only
in the third operation. It was felt, internally in the Bank, that increasing flexibility in labor regulations would
encourage some churning in the short run and would be best, for social and political reasons, preceded by


3Including with the support from other donors
4Minutes of the Regional Operations Committee Review, December 15, 2003.


                                                        12

reforms to improve the business environment and stimulate labor demand. However, during the course of
preparation, it became apparent that there was no solid political consensus within Bulgaria on the significance
of the regulations as a binding constraint to labor market flexibility. The Government did, however, make some
changes to the Labor Code to ensure its compliance with the EU acquis communitaire but these did not fully
address the provisions that were seen to cause rigidities.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank performance in the design, preparation and supervision of PAL2 is rated satisfactory. The team rapidly
advanced a complex agenda on public sector reform, in pace with the Government's momentum on these issues.
Appropriate reviews were conducted with full participation from across the Bank, review decisions were
generally respected by the task team, and adequate clearances were obtained for the various processing steps.

The key issues in Bank performance relate to design weaknesses alluded to above, namely: (i) the breadth of the
program; (ii) the inclusion and specificity of the Bulgartabak privatization conditions, and (iii) the limited
progress on fundamental labor market reforms.

Regarding (i), the PAL2 contained 96 reform commitments in more than twenty areas, of which fourteen
actions were considered core conditions required for Board presentation. Although this essentially was a
continuation of PAL program outline in PAL1 documentation, the addition of the complex public sector reform
agenda did necessitate some further simplification and focus in other areas, and which was encouraged at the
Decision Meeting (see further discussion in Section 7).

With respect to (ii), the Bank did not follow accepted guidelines and practices that recognize the limitations of
conditionality to enforce reform actions and outcomes. The Bank (and the Government) ratcheted up, indeed
maximized, the reputational risk both to the Bank, by publicizing the commitments of the PAL2 on
Bulgartabak, in the face of longstanding experience across the world that conditionality by itself cannot
generally overcome either political resistance nor market conditions (further discussion in Section 7).

With respect to (iii), as state above, under PAL2, the Bank could have pursued more upfront analysis and
dialogue on overall labor market performance, particularly as related to growth and productivity, to lay the
groundwork for reform, rather than the more narrow focus on labor market regulations.

The Borrower performance on design and implementation (including coordination and monitoring) is rated as
highly satisfactory. The Government's committed reform efforts across the entire PAL program and PAL2
operation are key to the success of the latter operation. In particular, the outstanding performance on the public
sector reform agenda, in many areas exceeding Bank expectations, is a model for other countries. Bulgaria has
managed to advance a wide range of generally very difficult reforms and achieve early traction, including in
civil service administration, in a very short space of time. However because some of these reform areas will
require several phases to complete and even more time to see full impact, the current challenge for Bulgaria will
be to maintain the momentum on the unfinished agendas and to broaden the reform effort to other areas.




7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

Lesson 1. The advantage of broad-based country and political ownership of the reform program cannot be
underestimated. This operation, like several others in the ECA region, provides evidence that the drive for EU
accession is a powerful impetus for reform and should be capitalized on where necessary. In these cases, the
Bank's value added is to help deepen and improve the quality of the reforms, rather than as the original catalyst
for change, per se.


                                                         13

Lesson 2. A broad multisectoral policy-based operation can be useful in signaling the Bank's
"endorsement" of the overall reform effort; and helping the government to coordinate a wide range of
reforms across line ministries. In Bulgaria, the Bank's interaction both at the technical, line ministry level and
later with the Council of Economic Policy (formerly Council for Structural Policy) and the Council for State
Administration Modernization were important for helping those institutions coordinate and integrate the entire
program.

Lesson 3. However, it remains important to focus policy-based lending only on those areas/actions that the
Bank can contribute technically to ensure the quality of the various reforms.

Lesson 4. If, in balancing lessons 2 and 3, a broad program is deemed appropriate, it needs to be supported
by a large and continuous team to provide quality, in-depth preparation and supervision of each operation.
Without such expertise, the Bank's role may be reduced to coordination, and less on providing technical advise
and support on each agreed reform. This is especially crucial when you have conditionalities related to
institutional reform worded "Satisfactory progress on the implementation of..." or related to detailed action
plans or strategies which require specific experience and expertise to be appropriately evaluated. In this case,
changing task managers or task team from one operation to the next may create a steep learning curve that can
delay or diminish future support.

Lesson 5. The Bank's advice on all areas of the reform program, including those that are to be the focus of
later operations, should be fairly well crafted at the design stage of the overall program and continuous
dialogue be maintained throughout interim operations. Programmatic operations are meant to provide a
continuous commitment from the Bank to the government's reform program that may need multiple stages and
phased implementation to achieve its overarching goal. The choice to have each subsequent operations focus
on a different area may have reduced the program's ability to take advantage of the medium term engagement
on each area from the beginning. That said, PAL2 benefited from early discussions with the authorities during
PAL1 on public administration and early steps taken under PAL1 on pension reform. However, a continuous
focus on the labor market and social sector reforms, from the beginning, may have yielded a stronger outcomes
in this area over time.

Lesson 6. Reputation, like investment, can have sunk costs.             One of the reasons (although to be
acknowledged not the primary reason), for including the Bulgartabak privatization in PAL2 and raising the flag
on it related to its earlier inclusion and lack of completion under other Bank operations. However, a more
balanced examination of the prospects, risks and significance going forward may have resulted in less emphasis
on these actions, regardless of prior commitments. In any case, the Bank should have limited its involvement to
something that it could realistically affect ­ the execution of an appropriate privatization process ­ rather than
the outcome of that process itself.




                                                       14

