Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB61
Project Name                BULGARIA - PAL 2
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Central government administration (50%); General industry and trade sector
(20%); General energy sector (10%); Sub-national govemment administration
(10%); General education sector (10%)
Theme                       Administrative and civil service reform (P); Other financial and private sector
development (P); Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S);
Municipal govemance and institution building (S); Macroeconomic management
(S)
Project                     P081637
Borrower(s)                 REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
Implementing Agency(ies)    COUNCIL FOR STRUCTURAL POLICY
Council for Structural Policy
Address: 1 Dondukov Blvd, Sofia, 1594
Contact Person: Zinaida Veleva
Tel: +359 2 940 21 43   Fax: +359 2 980 77 07     Email:
Environment Category        U (Not Rated)
Date PID Prepared           January 8, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date         December 9, 2003
Bank Approval Date          March 25, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background
Following the economic and financial crisis of 1996/97, Bulgaria has achieved macroeconomic stability
and implemented the first generation of structural reforms. By 2002 real GDP had grown by over 21
percent compared to 1997, and in 2002 the pre-crisis level was exceeded. At the same time inflation has
been contained at single digits level averaging 5.8 percent in 2002, and the extemal position has been
stronger than initially expected, with the extemal current account deficit declining to 4.4 percent of GDP in
2002 from 6.2 percent in 2001. This allowed a further growth in domestic savings and increased
investment. There have been major structural changes in the economy, with the private sector share of GDP
exceeding 64 percent in 2002, and the share of private sector banks in the banking system increasing to 83
percent at end 2002.
The economic recovery has been instrumental in reducing poverty by nearly two-thirds compared to the
level in 1996/97. However, the poverty rate in 2001 is more than double the 1995 pre-crisis level, and the
benefits of growth have not reached all groups of the population. Pockets of poverty and vulnerability with
strong ethnic, regional or age dimensions dominate the social landscape. In addition, unemployment at 16.8
percent of the labor force as at December 2002 remains relatively high. Of equal concem is the increasing
duration of unemployment, with 66 percent of the unemployed out of work for more than one year.
The Government's strategy for attaining sustained growth and poverty reduction is two-pronged : (a)
creating an investment climate for private sector led growth; and (b) empowering the population, especially
the poor, to participate in growth through improving public sector govemance, investing in human capital
and strengthening social programs. The Govemrnment is also aiming to complete accession to the European
Union in 2007. The Govemment is now embarking on a strategy of creating an investment climate that
encourages private investment and ensures that these investments are translated into increased productivity



2
PID
and growth. This also requires redefining and upgrading the role and capabilities of the public sector,
establishing credibility in institutions such as the judiciary, and putting in place a stable legal and
regulatory environment. In the social sectors, reforms emphasize developing human capital to complement
investment in physical capital, with fundamental reforms in the education and health sectors designed not
only to improve efficiency, but also to develop human capital capable of adapting to an increasingly
dynamic and competitive work environment.
2. Objectives
The project will provide support to the Government on the two main objectives of its overall program,
namely, sustaining economic growth and reducing poverty. The main objective of PAL 2 and of the overall
PAL Program is to support the Government's comprehensive reform agenda across the five pillars on which
the Government program is based: (a) sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise sector with emphasis
on the restructuring of the energy, railway, telecommunications and water sectors; (b) strengthening
market institutions, focusing on entry and exit policies, regulatory costs, delivery of public services, and
competition; (c) deepening the financial sector, addressing the constraints to increased lending by the
banking system and the development of financial markets; (d) improving public sector governance,
including public administration reform, continuing public expenditure management reforms, reform of
intergovernmental finance, and reforming the judiciary; (e) investing in human capital and strengthening
social programs, focusing on education, health, pension reform, and social assistance effectiveness. PAL 1
focused particularly on the first three of these five pillars. PAL 2 will continue to support the Government
program across the first three pillars, while focusing particularly on the fourth pillar, improving public
sector governance. PAL 3 will focus particularly in the fifth pillar, investing in human capital and
strengthening social programs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
As envisaged in the Coutry Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board of Directors of the Bank on May 9,
2002, PAL 2 is the second in a series of three planned programmatic adjustment loans. The first, PAL 1,
was approved by the Board of Directors of theh Bank on February 20, 2003 (Report No. 25374-BUL).
Bulgaria continues to rely on official creditors' support to meet its eternal financing requirements in order
to start addressing a decade long of neglected maintenance of basic infrastructure and implement structural
reforms while softening the impact of adjustment and protecting the poor. The expected Bank financing
under the PAL Program of up to $150 million per year over a three year period provides fiscal and balance
of payment support needed to implement a broad reform program - without the PAL financing, policy
dialogue, and support, the momentum for accelerating structural reforms is unlikely to be sustained and the
cost of adjustment would be likely to weigh heavily on vulnerable segments of the population. PAL 2 will
enable the Government to move into a second generation of reforms, where the emphasis is on developing
well-functioning markets. This requires a massive effort of building institutions involving the establishment
or strengthening of market rules, enforcement capacity, and supporting organizations. In this effort, PAL 2
will help redefine and upgrade the role and capability of government and provide the appropriate vehicle to
support the Government's medium term policy and institutional reform agenda.



3
PID
4. Description
The PAL Program, and in this specific case PAL 2, consists of five pillars as required to support the
Government's overall program to sustain economic growth and reduce poverty. The first pillar is sustaining
structural reforms in the enterprise sector, with emphasis on the restructuring of the energy, railway,
telecommunications and water sectors. The second pillar is establishing a market-friendly business
environment, focusing on entry and exit policies, regulatory costs, delivery of public services, and
competition. The third pillar is deepening thefinancial sector, addressing the constraints to increased
lending by the banking system and the development of financial markets. The fourth pillar is improving
public sector governance, including public administration reform, continuing pubic expenditure
management reforms, reform of intergovernmental finance, and reforming the judiciary. The fifth pillar is
investing in human capital and strengthening social assistance programs, focusing on education, health,
pension reform, and social assistance effectiveness. PAL 2 focuses in particular on the fourth pillar, which
aims to reduce corruption, and improve public sector service delivery though strengthening public
administration capacity.
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.00)
IBRD ($150.00)
Total Project Cost: $150.00
6. Implementation
Arrangements for implementation of PAL 2 will remain the same as those used successfully under PAL 1.
The overall main Govemment counterpart for PAL 2 will be the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of
Economy, supported by the Council for Structural Policy, supported in turn by the Directorate for EU
Integration and Relations with IFIs of the Administration of the Council of Ministers.
7. Sustainability
There are judged to be three main risks to sustainability of development and implementation of the reform
program being supported by the PAL Program and in this case by PAL 2 : implementation risk, given the
depth and breadth of the reform agenda and weaknesses in some areas of implementation capacity; political
risk, with the possibility of policy slippages and opposition from particular stakeholders and interest
groups; and extemal risks, particularly from possible shocks from the extemal environment which could
jeopardize macroeconomic stability. Technical assistance support is being sought to strengthen
implementation capacity; and a communications strategy will also be developed to help put in place
mitigation strategies for certain of the political risks.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The fragmentation of adjustment operations in the past weakened the ability of individual operations to
support implementation of difficult reforms. In addition, many adjustment operations had a sectoral focus.
The use of a single umbrella programmatic adjustment program improves leverage and expands coverage
and is better suited to the comprehensive reform program of the Government and to the high degree of
commitment of the Government to implementation of its comprehensive program. Many multi-tranche
adjustment operations in the past appeared less successful than single-tranche operations, with the second
tranches in some cases being canceled. The Bulgaria PAL Program has been designed to comprise three
one tranche programmatic adjustment operations.



4
PID
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The PAL Program has a component that would further strengthen the design and
implementation of environmental policies. This includes the passage of irnproved environmental legislation,
in line with EU directives.
10. List of factual technical documents:
"Bulgaria - The Dual Challenge of Transition and Accession". World Bank, 2001
"Bulgaria - Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reformn". World Bank, 2002
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Neil Parison
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-8283
Fax: 202-614-0940 or 202-522-2751
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:ll www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.



