Report No. PIC3967
Project                   Zambia-Enterprise Development Project
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Institutional Development
Project ID Number         ZMPA44324
Borrower                  Government of Zambia
Implementing Agencies     Ministry of Commerce, Industry,and Trade
Date this PID prepared    May 23, 1996
Date last PID prepared    February 7, 1996
Projected Appraisal date June, 1996
Projected Board date      March, 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background.    Since independence in 1964,
copper has consistently remained at the center of Zambia's economy --
even after copper prices collapsed, leaving the country heavily
indebted and poorer. Several partial attempts of economic reforms not
only had little impact but also increased the debt burden of the
country. Arrears accumulated, and the Bank and IMF suspended lending
operation between 1987 and November 1991 (except for a brief period in
1991). Following elections in 1991, and a change in government, these
operations resumed. Over the past four years, with considerable
support from the donor community, Zambia has implemented one of the
most ambitious and comprehensive economic reform programs on the
African continent. In support of this program, the Bank has
implemented five adjustment operations with the sixth one in
negotiation stage; the country has also recently finished a Rights
Accumulation Program with the Fund.
2.   Enviable success in policy reform area has not, however, yet put
the country on a growth path which would reduce dependence on external
assistance and be sustainable in the medium to long run. There are
number of reasons for the lack of growth. First and foremost, it took
time for the macroeconomic situation to stabilize: in the first three
years subsequent to reform, inflation averaged over one hundred
percent, real interest rates went as much as 100 percent and the
exchange rate was devalued more than 300 times. Second, the private
sector was not immediately convinced that the changes were real and
permanent. Third, Zambia has had unusually frequent major droughts in
the last five years (two major and one minor drought). Finally, the
country lacked the domestic savings to finance necessary investments,
while foreign private capital has been hesitant.
3.   Zambia's reform policies exposed the inherent inefficiencies in
its industrial sector, dominated in recent decades by parastatals. In
the newly liberalized environment, public and private domestic firms
for the most part proved unable to compete as exporters. At the same
time domestic demand remained stagnant, and competition from imports
grew. The result was a significant job and output loss in the formal



sector. Although some contraction of these inefficient operations was
inevitable, output and employment losses were exacerbated by high
degree of dependence of manufacturing activities on purchases by ZCCM,
which also has shrunk considerably.
4.   It has become apparent that Zambian firms must change their
traditional ways of doing business, if they are to take advantage of
the new opportunities created by the new, liberal economic
environment: they must abandon familiar (though declining) lines of
business; identify new market opportunities, often in areas where they
have no prior knowledge or experience; and restructure their physical
and organizational infrastructure. Zambia lacks some crucial elements
needed for this transformation to occur. The country's relative
isolation has left it cut off from information on emerging market
trends globally, making it difficult for entrepreneurs to learn about
unfamiliar areas for profit. More fundamentally, Zambia's private
sector is 'thin', so the number of existing firms with the skills,
experience and organizational culture to pro-actively seek out
opportunities is limited. Delays in supply response threaten the
economic reform program and contribute to serious political and
poverty issues in the urban areas where about half of the population
live.
5.   Zambia's financial sector also was completely liberalized as part
of the program of reform. In addition to foreign banks and a
parastatal bank, ZNCB, about fifteen new commercial banks opened
subsequent to liberalization, even as the capabilities of supervisory
authorities remained weak. The resulting collapse of one major
(Meridien BIAO) and two minor banks strained the system. These
strains were exacerbated by macroeconomic instability, which made it
difficult to develop new financial products and instruments. In
particular, high interest rates made it virtually impossible to
provide kwacha-denominated long-term finance.
6.   Project Objectives.   The overall objective of the project is to
complement Zambia's macroeconomic reform program with micro-level
support to enterprises and financial intermediaries. The project would
support firm-level efforts at restructuring by: (i) providing advice
through the use of matching grants; (ii) providing long-term credit
facility for investment; (iii) providing a short-term credit-line for
exporters; (iv) providing technical assistance to help strengthen the
institutional underpinnings of the financial system--wholesale, retail,
and regulatory; and (v) providing technical assistance to create a
common and easily accessible information and data base with modern tools
for Zambian entrepreneurs, through the Export Board of Zambia.
7.   Project Description. The project would include the following
components:
A Matching Grant Scheme (MGS)--US$6 million, of which IDA US$3.5
million, 9.71% of total project cost--to stimulate the use of support
services to assist firms in their reorientation. MGS would share the
costs of firm-level plans aimed at enhancing competitiveness. MGS
could also be utilized by various business support organizations to
finance development and implementation of their initiatives. To
- 2 -



'kickstart' the process of learning by firms, the MGS will be
implemented by a small unit which, upon the request of firms (who will
retain the right to prepare plans independently) will work with them
on designing their business plan, deciding what services will be most
helpful, and selecting -- and getting the best out of -- suppliers.
A Multi-Purpose Credit Facility (MCF)--US$54 million, of which IDA
US$40 million, 87.41. of total project cost-- to provide two credit
lines through commercial banks. The first credit line will be a
medium-to-long term Investment Credit Facility (ICF)--IDA US$30
million-- to finance investments in all sectors excluding real estate
and pure trading activities. The second credit line will be a short
term Export Preshipment Credit Facility (EPF)--US$10 million IDA-- to
finance working capital needs of production of exports.
A Technical Assistance Program--US$1.47 million,of which IDA US$1.15
million,  2.4 W of total project cost--would be established for
financial institutions and Export Board of Zambia (EBZ). The program
will provide: (i) intensive courses on project evaluation,
international trade transactions and portfolio management techniques
for long-term lending and export financing ; (ii) a resident advisor
for one-year for the Apex; (iii) two resident advisors to assist the
ZNCB management to restructure the Bank; (iv) a matching grant scheme
for commercial banks to stimulate upgrading of banking operations; and
(iv) training for EBZ staff in managing an information broking
service.
8.   Project Cost and Financing. The proposed IDA credit of US$45
million equivalent would finance about 72t of the total project cost of
US$62.12 milion. The project would require a retroactive financing in
case the resident advisor for the Apex appointed prior to the
effectiveness of the project. IDA funds would be disbursed through
special accounts.
9.   Project Implementation. Implementation of World-Bank supported
projects in Zambia has often been complicated by an overcentralized
structure, and a consequent layering of bureaucracy between the project
and the final beneficiaries. To minimize these complications, the EDP
will be implemented in a de-centralized fashion, with each set of
beneficiaries responsible for the relevant project component:
The private sector would take the lead (appointing six of seven board
members) in a Matching Grant Supervisory Board (MGSB), which would
have responsibility for oversight of the Matching Grant Scheme --
including 'demand-driven technical assistance' to commercial banks,
which will operate on the same principles as other matching grants to
the private sector. MGSB would appoint an independent executor for MGS
and supervise the contractor within the agreed operational guidelines.
A small apex unit will manage the credit component. The Apex unit
would have the responsibilities for ensuring the efficient onlending
of funds to solvent, well-managed financial intermediaries with
capacity for onlending to private companies and exporters. The design
and management of technical assistance to support the apex unit will
be undertaken directly by the unit, with IDA approval. This apex unit
-3 -



will be either a restructured Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) or a
new organization which could be temporarily located in Bank of Zambia
(BOZ).
Other technical assistance components will be channeled directly to
the relevant recipient organizations (i.e. BOZ, Zambia Institute of
Bankers, Zambia National Commercial Bank, and the Export Board of
Zambia).
MCTI will designate a person to provide day-to-day administrative
coordination and to be the final recipient of the required
implementation outputs of each component. Given the institutional
requirements for the functioning of project components, it is expected
that project start-up will be slow, and will initially require a
significant amount of supervision.
10. Project Sustainability. Recognizing that strong institutions
require years to develop, the project aims to initiate a process that
will support the development of strong, sustainable institutions as
follows: (i) businesses which can sustain themselves, by directly or
indirectly serving export markets and/or successfully competing with
imports; and (ii) financial institutions that effectively and
efficiently intermediate funds to private sector. Continuation of the
existing extensive dialogue with the Government and the private sector
will assure wide ownership for the project.
11. Lessons Learned. The project aims to draw on the results of
projects, in Zambia and elsewhere, that have sought to support on-
lending and to strengthen business services. On-lending projects have
often had limited results because: (i) the terms and conditions of
onlending led to targeted misallocations of resources; (ii) subsidized
credit mechanisms did not have the desired real sector impact; (iii)
real sector reforms did not precede; and (iv) in countries with small
formal financial systems, reliance on existing solvent and well-managed
financial intermediaries did not result in the breadth or depth of
financial intermediation needed, particularly to emerging enterprises --
hence there is a need to strengthen the insitutional base of the
financial system. A key lesson that has been incorporated into a new
generation of projects to strengthen the provision of business services
is that provision of information and management should be specialized
and tailored to the needs of firms -- generalized training and technical
assistance should be avoided.
12. Environmental Aspects. The project is not expected to present
significant environment risks and thus an environmental rating of 'C'
is proposed. Establishment of a process of environmental review of
subprojects as well as an assessment of any other environmental impact
will be undertaken during project appraisal. Neither an indigenous
peoples plan nor resettlement plan will be developed.
13. Poverty Category. This Project does not have a poverty category.
14. Program Objective Categories. The project would primarily
contribute to the private sector development, financial intermediation
and institutional development categories.
- 4-



15. Project Benefits. The principal benefit of this project is to
support ongoing reform program by: (i) aiding and facilitating
reorientation of Zambian firms; (ii) increasing investments in
internationally competitive activities; and (iii) enhancing scope and
capabilities of financial system and financial institutions. The
project will generate new investments and create new employments as well
as preserve existing jobs by helping firms to become and stay
internationally competitive.
16. Project Risks. The principal risk of the project are : (i) the
Government may fail to continue its implementation of ongoing
macroeconomic reform program; (ii) the Government may interfere with the
efficiency and transparency of the onlending mechanism; (iii) the
Government and BOZ may fail to effectively implement prudential
regulations and monitoring of the financial intermediaries; (iv)
information made available to the Apex about financial intermediaries
may not be timely and reliable; and (v) alternative funding at below
market rates could be provided by the Government or from other sources.
In order to mitigate against these risks it is essential to have: (i)
continuation of policy dialogue and adjustment operations to ensure the
macroeconomic stability and appropriate policy environment for the
project objectives; (ii) close cooperation among donors to support the
economic reform program and the institution building efforts; and (iii)
close supervision of the project implementation.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 21, 1996.
- 5 -



