                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 27559

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-29550)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF 45US$ MILLION

                                TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                        ZAMBIA

                                        FOR AN

                           ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                    December 30, 2003




Finance and Private Sector Unit
Africa Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective 12/24/2003)

                             Currency Unit = ZMK
                                   ZMK 1 = US$ 0.00022
                                     US$ 1 = 4460

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                               December 24      2004

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOZ          Bank of Zambia
CEM          Country Economic Memorandum
EBZ          Export Board of Zambia
EDP          Enterprise Development Project
EIB          European Investment Bank
ESW          Economic Sector Work
DBZ          Development Bank of Zambia
D&T          Deloitte & Touche
MCF          Multipurpose Credit Facility
MGS          Matching Grant Scheme
MCTI         Ministry of Commerce Trade and Industry
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PFIs         Participating financial intermediaries
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
ZCCM         Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZIB          Zambia Institutes of Bank
ZNCB         Zambia National Commercial Bank




                          Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
                        Country Director       Hartwig Schafer
                         Sector Manager        Gerard Byam
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Ahmet Soylemezoglu

                               GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA
                        ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P044324                                                  Project Name: ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT
Team Leader: Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu                                   TL Unit: AFTFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 31, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-29550
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (96%); Banking (3%); Other
                            domestic and international trade (1%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Export
                            development and competitiveness (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/18/1996                                     Effective: 03/04/1998                03/04/1998
     Appraisal: 06/12/1996                                         MTR: 07/24/1999                  07/24/1999
      Approval: 05/27/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA/MIN. OF COMMERCE INDUSTRY; REPUBLIC OF
                                           ZAMBIA/AND TRADE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Gerard A. Byam                                 A. Ataman Aksoy
Team Leader at ICR:             Ahmet Soylemezoglu                             Ahmet Soylemezoglu
ICR Primary Author:             Dan Moses


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. Zambia Enterprise Development Project (EDP) was designed to support Zambia's
Economic Reform Program that began in 1991. One of the key aspects of this reform program
was to dismantle traditional state supported enterprise development mechanism and replace it
with market determined enterprise development structures. In order to achieve this policy goal
it was noted that: (i) Zambia's financial system needed long term sources of funds; (ii) a
market-based mechanism to channel these funds into Zambian enterprises needed to be created;
and (iii) Zambian firms had to improve their competitiveness and focus on internationally
competitive activities.

Objectives. The project's Staff Appraisal Report mentions the following three specific objectives:
(i) enhancing Zambian firms' technical know-how by providing demand-driven technical
assistance to Zambian firms in the form of matching grants; (ii) enhancing Zambian firms' access
to finance by providing a long-term credit facility for investments and a short-term credit line for
exporters; and (iii) strengthening the financial system and availability of information resources in
Zambia by providing technical assistance to help strengthen the institutional underpinnings of the
financial system at the wholesale, retail and regulatory levels.

Assessment. The project was prepared and designed after carrying out two major economic
sector reports: a grey cover County Economic Memorandum (CEM) which investigated growth
prospects and constraints in Zambia; and a comprehensive review of the Zambian financial sector.
The project's objective's and design are consistent with the findings of these reports. The project
was conceived to be a major instrument of support for the Bank's assistance strategy and
programs in Zambia. The SAR noted that the project would "complement and support the
ongoing economic reform programs by aiding and facilitating investment in internationally
competitive economic activities". The project's objectives are also interlinked and mutually
supporting. A credit instrument was put in place to facilitate investments and export production
while a grant instrument was offered to improve productivity. Technical assistance components
were targeted to: (i) lay the foundations of a modern financial system which channels resources to
productive activities; and ii) assist implementation of the project.

Zambia EDP's core was the Multipurpose Credit Facility (MCF) component which accounted
about ninety percent of the total IDA credit. The design of this component took into account the
Bank's experience with lines of credit in general and particularly in Zambia. As a result, MCF was
designed to avoid common pitfalls of lines of credit operations. MCF design essentially
eliminated political interference by having commercial banks take all credit decisions and
commercial risks. In addition, MCF introduced a simple process to approve financial
intermediaries by tying eligibility to financial intermediaries' compliance with prudential rules and
regulations. MCF also created a sinking fund which a part of interest earnings would be invested
in to pay off IDA credit. Hence, MCF is designed as a perpetual fund which pays itself back
without imposing any fiscal burden.

The Matching Grant Component was also designed by taking into account all previous lessons in
similar projects. MGS design included features of best practices in similar initiatives. The MGS



                                                   - 2 -

component also encouraged community based and industry wide undertakings to improve
productivity and introduce new products and systems by making such activities eligible.

Technical assistance components are clearly targeted to support implementation of the project as
well as prepare institutional structures to sustain project's activities in the longer term.

Project Documentation includes detailed operational policies and guidelines for MGS and MCF
components. All implementation arrangements - their modalities, timing and costings - were
clearly identified, and operational activities of entities responsible for implementation were
prepared and detailed during project preparation.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives have not been revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The EDP project included 3 main components:

    a) A Matching Grant Scheme (MGS)
    b) A Multipurpose Credit Facility (MCF)
    c) Technical Assistance (TA) to complement the above components.

Matching Grant Scheme.          The matching grant scheme was intended to support Zambian firms
with a grant covering fifty percent of actual approved costs for "specialized support services to
inject technical and managerial know-how into their operations". The MGS was envisioned as a
facility that will support private business firms as well as NGOs, private sector associations and
private commercial service providers. The scheme was funded with US$ 2.5 millions allocation
from the EDP credit, with a maximum amount to be granted to each applicant set at US$ 25,000
for NGOs, associations and service providers.

The MGS was managed by an independent management contractor, selected through a
competitive bidding process, and reporting to a supervisory committee nominated by the
government, consisting of six members from the private sector and only one government official.
The independent management contractor, besides receiving, evaluating and approving the grants
and managing disbursements was to provide free "hand holding assistance" to the beneficiaries,
assisting them in defining tasks, selecting suppliers and using results. Funds for financing the
costs of the management contractor were allocated as part of the TA component of the EDP
credit. The amount budgeted, US$ 0.5 million, constitute 20% of the amount allocated for the
grants.

In addition to the general MGS, a special allocation of US$ 300,000 was designed to support
financial institutions, with no foreign affiliation, to develop their systems, procedures, manuals and
staff-training programs. This component was intended to strengthen the domestic financial sector
institutions as well as to improve the performance of the participating financial institutions (PFIs)
in the MCF component.




                                                   - 3 -

Multipurpose Credit Facility.         The credit facility was intended to enable Zambian firms to
borrow in foreign exchange, through the financial system, to finance investments and the
production of exports. The credit facility was intended to be a source of foreign currency lending
funds, made available to commercial banks and other eligible financial institutions, for on-lending
to credit worthy Zambian firms. The MCF was designed to allow the banks and other
participating financial institutions to have as much as possible a free hand in choosing potential
borrowers and investment projects they would like to finance and fixing the terms and conditions
of their loans. Such terms and conditions include fixing the interest rates and other fees, deciding
what percentage of total investment will be financed by the loan, and specifying the duration of
the repayment schedule as well as the duration of a grace period. Participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs) were approved based on their financial strength, contingent on them fully
complying with all prudential regulations. The MCF exposure to each PFI was limited to the
amount of each PFI's first-tier capital, as calculated by the Bank of Zambia (BOZ). PFIs were
responsible for repayment of loans on due-dates independent of collecting from the final
borrower, hence carrying all credit risk. In case a PFI were to be in liquidation, all rights vis-a-vis
the final borrower would automatically be transferred to the apex. Therefore, an MCF loan
would become bad debt only if both the final borrower and the PFI were insolvent.

The PFIs were charged interest in US Dollars based on one-year LIBOR rates, adjusted annually.
Originally the rate was set at LIBOR plus two percent with a minimum rate of five percent .
Kwacha repayments calculated by using prevailing exchange rates at the date the repayment is due
were also allowed. The limits set by the MCF on PFIs regarding individual loans were designed
to allow them maximum flexibility and discretion.

The following general terms and conditions applied to investment credits (US$ 30 millions):

    (i) Repayment over 3 ­ 7 years, with 0 to 17 months grace period, not to exceed one fifth of
    the total length of the repayment period.
    (ii) Financing up to 90% of the total investment.
    (iii)Maximum size of single loan or total loans to one borrower/group of borrowers set at
    US$ 3 millions.
    (iv)Interest and fees to be paid by final borrower left to the PFIs to decide based on their risk
    and costs assessments.

For the line of credit for exports pre-shipment of US$ 10 millions the following applied:

    (i) Repayment by one lump sum after 3 ­ 9 months.
    (ii) Financing up to 90% of the total costs.
    (iii)Maximum size of single loan or total loans to one borrower/group of borrowers set at
    US$ 1 million.
    (iv)Interest and fees to be paid by final borrower left to the PFIs to decide based on their risk
    and costs assessments.

The MCF management was envisioned as a separate entity, owned by the Government and acting
exclusively as a wholesale financial institution, providing apex services to MCF and later to other



                                                  - 4 -

Bank and donors lines of credit. The apex was expected to process applications by financial
institutions to become PFIs and set maximum exposure level for them, based on information
received from BOZ. The apex was then assigned the authority and responsibility of approving
PFIs' applications for specific loans and managing disbursements and collections based on loan
agreements (with collections processed automatically through the BOZ clearing system on due
dates).

To enable the MCF to be functional immediately upon the approval of EDP, a temporary
management arrangement was set-up, by which one bank, that was not participating as a PFI,
would act as an apex until creation of a permanent apex.

The MCF left the PFIs to decide on specific terms and conditions and required the PFIs to take all
the credit risks. PFIs were required to repay the apex each repayment on time according to the
repayment schedule they agreed with final borrower, regardless whether the final borrower repaid
the PFI. This mechanism guaranteed full repayment to the apex of all loans. The MCF was also
designed to become a perpetual fund by recycling all repayments into new loans, and by allocating
part of the interest collected to a sinking fund (held at BOZ and invested in foreign triple A
securities), to provide in due course enough funds for repaying IDA. A certain percentage out of
the interest was earmarked to cover the apex administrative costs, enabling the apex to operate on
income from outstanding credits and to require no external source of funds to secure its
operations.

Technical Assistance.       In support of the EDP's two main components ­ the MCF and the MGS
­ several TA components were designed, with a total allocation of US$ 1.95 millions, out of the
project total of US$ 45 millions.

The Technical Assistance included components directly related to the EDP objectives and other
components. The most directly related TA elements were for the MGS management contractor,
financing the management of the MGS through the duration of the project and for the operations
of the MCF's apex unit during the initial period until the management fee allocated from the
interest on outstanding credit will cover its costs.

Other beneficiaries of the TA were the PFIs, ZNCB and BOZ. These TA elements were intended
to facilitate the success of the MCF, by:

    (i) Supporting the BOZ bank supervision department in conducting high quality supervision,
    enabling the apex to fully depend on BOZ for due diligence and follow-up regarding the PFIs;
    (ii) Support ZNCB in updating its systems and enable it to become a qualified PFI;
    (iii)Provide training for commercial banks staff in subjects and issues related to the MCF
    components; and
    (iv)A separate TA component ­ for the Export Board of Zambia ­was intended to create an
    information brokering service, seen as an in important contribution to the success of local
    private sector enterprises.

The project TA funds allocation was:



                                                  - 5 -

MGS management                  US $ 500 000
MCF apex initial operations US $ 400 000
BOZ bank supervision            US $    400 000
ZNCB                            US $ 400 000
Training of banks' staff                US $ 200 000
Export Board of Zambia          US $     50 000
TA Total                        US $ 1 950 000

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components have not been revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The EDP project was successful in identifying the needs of the Zambian private sector at the time.
It further identified the problem of providing businesses with medium-term loans to finance
investments in an inflationary, high interest and quick devaluation environment. In such
circumstances, local currency lending required payment of high interest charges in the first year,
far beyond amounts generated from any fixed assets investment. Only foreign exchange
denominated loans, with a reasonable level of interest, provided investors the opportunity to
match revenue, especially from export receipts and from the sale of import substitutes, with loan
servicing.

The identification of a need for more spending/investing in technology, market related research
and promotion was also correct. The MGS design took into account design features of best
practices at the time of project preparation.

The project was one of the first pilot projects for the then newly established Quality Assurance
Group (QAG). A high level panel reviewed the project with a view to design their
"Quality-at-Entry" review product. The panel rated the project's "Quality at Entry" fully
satisfactory. The QAG panel found the project's strengths as following:

        a) the project's analytical underpinnings (which included ESWs and cross-country
studies);
        b) clarity and consistency of project's objectives;
        c) MGS design,
        d) understanding of the country circumstances and identification of risks;
        d) front loading of conditionality; and
        e) strong skills of the project team.

The QAG agreed with the Task Team that the project is a "high risk" operation due to country
circumstances. The panel also noted that the selection and operation of a "competent apex" is the
biggest challenge to the project. The QAG observed that the project's success is highly dependent
on "quality and intensity of supervision".

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs



                                                 - 6 -

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The EDP succeeded in supporting the development of the Zambian private sector. It therefore
achieved its general objective successfully. MCF funds have become a main source of investment
lending as total MCF funded loans now constitute about fifteen percent of total lending to the
private sector by Zambian banks and leasing companies. The project funding has attained
systemic importance for the Zambian financial sector and indirectly helped the fiscal position by
making more room for banks to hold treasury bills. It, therefore, eased the pressure of
"crowding-out" of the private sector from financial markets due to high budget deficits.

It must be noted that in the years 2000 ­ 2002 during which both the MCF and the MGS were
disbursing heavily the Zambian economy grew at a higher pace than in previous years, reaching a
growth rate of 4.9% in real GDP in the year 2001. The private sector, other than copper mining,
was the main contributor to this growth, under unstable macroeconomic conditions. The
macroeconomic instability is reflected in the rate of inflation fluctuating between 20% and 30%
annually, and the Kwacha devaluation against the US Dollar behaving erratically - very high
(58%) in 2000, reversed to revaluation (of 7%) in 2001 and devaluating again in 2002 (by 24%).
Given the relatively high level of financing by EDP to non-copper activities, one can conclude
EDP funds played a crucial role in this growth process despite the volatile macroeconomic
condition .

4.2 Outputs by components:
Multipurpose Credit Facility (MCF). This component is rated highly satisfactory. The MCF
fully disbursed ahead of project's closing date and in accordance with original operational
principles. MCF has attained a critical importance for Zambia's financial sector as well as private
sector. About fifteen percent of total private sector lending in Zambia is now funded by MCF. As
explained below, sectoral break-down of MCF beneficiaries and loan sizes indicate that MCF
succeeded to channel significant resources to non-mining activities - hence contributed
diversification of Zambian economy - and small size projects. No loss from lending activities was
incurred and about half of the total funds have already been re-lent. MCF's performance is
especially remarkable given the poor record of the record of line of credit operations in the Bank.
A recent OED study (by Y. Yaron) of 110 similar operations between 1993 -2002 concluded that
MCF was one of the best designed and implemented line of credit operations in the Bank.

MCF implementation had a difficult start. Disbursements were low and pressures to alter the
project's design was high. There were mainly three reasons for this:
    (i) the uncertain macro-economic environment (essentially caused by uncertainties
    surrounding the ZCCM privatization process) created a lower demand for credit and
    reluctance by PFIs to take risks;
    (ii) Participating Financial Intermediaries(PFI) became reluctant to provide information to
    CitiBank which was acting as the temprorary apex; and
    (iii)Private sector and PFIs hoped that the government and the Bank would improve the terms
    by assuming the credit risk

In response to PFIs reluctance to work with CitiBank as the temporary apex the apex operations
were moved into BOZ in January 2000. The macroeconomic situation started improving
following ZCCM's privatization in 2001 and 2002. As a result the usage of the MCF increased


                                                 - 7 -

sharply. The total lending increased from US$ 6.6 millions by the end of the year 2000 to US$
19.2 millions by the end of the year 2001 and to US$ 51.5 millions (by recycling repayments) by
the end of the year 2002. Hence, MCF allocation of EDP had already been fully utilized by
December 2002. Total lending reached US$ 59.8 millions by the project's closing on June 30,
2003. This means that about half of the MCF funds were collected and re-lent by the project's
closing. This is indeed a very impressive result.

The Bank decreased the margin above LIBOR from 2% to 1 % in January 2000, and eliminated
the minimum interest rate of 5% in January 2002. The worldwide trend towards lower interest
rates caused a substantial decrease of LIBOR interest rates charged by the apex from the PFIs.
The lower interest rates assisted the MCF in competing with the very low interest plus risk
sharing facility offered by European Investment Bank (EIB). At the closing of the project, the
outstanding credit of US$ 40 millions constituted approximately fifteen percent of the total credit
outstanding to the private sector from all financial institutions (commercial banks and leasing
companies). While the moves by the Bank to decrease the margin and eliminate the minimum
were correct decisions, the re-introduction of a minimum rate is now advisable to enable the
sinking fund to accumulate enough funds for repayment of the IDA loan.

Different PFIs applied different interest rates and fees to their MCF loans. Some banks applied 2
- 4% spread with a zero or small up-front fee. Other PFIs, applied different margins to different
borrowers to reflect risk and administration costs (in relation to size of individual loans) and
higher up-front fees. Leasing companies generally charged higher rates than commercial banks.

Beyond being a significant portion of all credit to the private sector, and the major contributor to
medium-term lending in foreign exchange, the MCF achieved impressive results on three counts:
(i) the number of PFIs, (ii) the size of beneficiaries and, (iii) the distribution of borrowers between
sectors.

The MCF has eleven PFIs. These include eight commercial banks and three NBFIs, mainly
leasing companies. The three major foreign banks, not including Citibank, are important PFIs; in
addition five smaller banks are active PFIs. The participating leasing companies are the largest
and best capitalized.

The total amounts disbursed by each PFI are as follows:

Table 1          MCF disbursements by PFIs

                      PFI                    Total disbursed       % disbursed from all
                                               US $ `000                   PFIs
      African Bank Corp.                          2,451                   4.1%
     Barclays Bank Zam.                           4,227                   7.1%
     Finance Bank, Zam.                           9,200                   15.4%
     First Alliance Bank, Zam.                      450                    0.8%
     Investrust Merchant Bank                     1,010                   1.7%
     Stanbic Bank, Zam.                          14,576                  24.4%
     Standard Chartered Bank                      3,219                   5.4%


                                                  - 8 -

    Intermarket Discount House                     280                0.4%
    Total Banks                               35,413                 59.1%
    ALS Capital                                  6,918               11.6%
    Industrial Credit Co.                      10,929                18.3%
    Leasing Finance Co.                          6,573               11.0%
    Total NBFIs                               24,700                 40.9%
      Grand Total                              59,833                100.0%

The banks that did not and do not participate include: (i) CitiBank which is not involved in
investment finance; (ii) ZNCB which ran into financial difficulties and could not meet eligibility
criteria; (iii) Indo- Zambia Bank which is inactive in lending in general (with ratio of total loans to
total assets of approximately 7% compared with 20 ­ 35% for the other large banks); and (iv)
several very small banks.

In General, the EDP MCF was made available to all qualifying financial institutions and therefore
did not discriminate between banks and did not distort the sector structure.

Table 2           PFIs capital and outstanding loans at project closing

                                       Capital Position       Outstanding           Cum. Dis
                                       At 30 June 2003          Balance              to Date
                 BANKS                       US$                  US$                  US$

Barclays Bank Zambia Limited            21,885,200.00        2,059,000.00          4,227,500.00
Standard Chartered Bank Plc             15,927,200.00          818,000.00          3,218,828.30
Stanbic Bank Zambia Limited              9,794,600.00        6,662,962.06        14,575,955.74
Indo Zambia Bank Zambia Ltd             12,340,200.00              -                     -
Finance Bank Zambia Limited              7,995,800.00        7,071,609.89          9,200,000.00
First Alliance Bank Zambia Ltd           5,259,200.00              -                 450,000.00
African Banking Corporation (Z) Ltd      3,129,800.00           621,374.00         2,450,797.00
Intermarket Discount House Ltd           1,667,600.00           280,000.00           280,000.00
Investrust Merchant Bank Link            1,735,000.00           357,852.51         1,009,893.00
Total Banks                                                 17,870,798.46        35,412,974.04
                  NBFIs

Intermarket Discount House Ltd           1,667,600.00          280,000.00           280,000.00
Industrial Credit Company Limited        2,971,200.00        6,799,245.28        10,928,674.50
Leasing Finance Company Limited          1,873,200.00        5,054,685.00          6,573,110.00
ALS Capital Limited                         489,200.00       4,390,269.84          6,917,680.00
Total NBFIs                                                  16,244,200.12       24,419,464.50

Grand Total                                                 34,114,998.58        59,832,438.54



Table 2 shows that Stanbic, which started using the facility immediately, had the largest total



                                                 - 9 -

disbursements at the end of June 30, 2003. The other banks used the facility later, with Barclays
entering late and Standard Chartered using the facility only to a limited extent. The use of the
MCF by each bank reflects its aggressiveness in lending in general and for the medium-term in
particular. Further more, some banks, especially foreign banks were worried about political
pressure to lend against their credit risk based judgement, and delayed participation in the project
to avoid such pressure. With initial low level of interest from the major banks, the leasing
companies became the major PFIs in the earlier stages of MCF. The leasing companies made
quick and heavy use of the funds, partly because they lacked other sources of funds to expand
their business. On the other hand, the apex approval of loans that allow the balance due from the
leasing companies to be a multiple of their capital, permitted for exposure above the level
suggested for commercial banks at the design stage. While the present performance of the
participating leasing companies is highly satisfactory, a more restrictive formula should also be
designed for leasing companies as well.

The distribution of beneficiaries by the size of the individual loan/lease suggests strong
participation by small enterprises. It is clear that very large loans, amounting to one million US
Dollars and above (per borrower, counting all loans provided to one borrower as one) constituted
a small percentage of the amounts disbursed. On the other hand about one third of the final
borrowers borrowed/leased for less than US$ 100,000, with individual loans going as low as
bellow US$ 10,000.

Table 3         MCF Beneficiaries disbursements by size of individual loan/lease

 Size of loans/leases            Number of beneficiaries             Amount disbursed
                                  Enterprises                %       US$ `000                %
 Up to US$ 100,000                      60                   31         3,550                  6
 US$ 100,000 ­ 1,000,000              126                    66        48,780                 81
 US$ 1,000,000 and above                 6                    3         7,500                 13
 Total                                192                  100         59,830                100

Data regarding the ethnicity of borrowers was not collected, however discussions with PFIs,
several beneficiaries and others suggest that the MCF borrowers fairly reflect the constitution of
the Zambian formal sector businesses, which are incorporated as limited liability companies and
operate bank accounts. An examination of the MCF portfolio shows that ownership
characteristics of the MCF beneficiary firms are very similar to that of DBZ's portfolio which was
the main provider of investment finance until early 1990s, except the MCF portfolio in general is
skewed towards more smaller projects and smaller firms.

With regard to the beneficiaries' distribution by sector, the results are most impressive.
Agriculture and agro-processing sectors which were commonly thought to have difficulty
obtaining commercial credit, have been the biggest beneficiaries of MCF with about 44% of total
loans financing these crucial sectors. Manufacturing also has a higher share All in all, the
economy at large, with all its major components benefited from the MCF.




                                                  - 10 -

Table 4         MCF disbursements by beneficiary sector

           Sector                     Total disbursed                      Share
                                         US$ `000
Agriculture                                   7 522                       12.6 %
Agro Processing                              18 530                        31.0%
Construction                                  2 290                         3.8%
Mining                                        4 845                         8.1%
Mine servicing                                2 593                         4.3%
Manufacturing                                 9 233                        15.4%
Services                                      5 695                         9.5%
Transport                                     5 862                         9.8%
Tourism                                       3 263                         5.5%
Total                                        59 833                      100.0 %


MCF had a significant impact on the Zambian economy as it helped create jobs and generate of
corporate and tax revenue as well as export proceeds. The table below summarizes this impact.

Table 5. Summary Impact Data


  Number of projects                              192
  Number of Jobs Created                           Approximately 6,000
  Revenue Generated                                US$ 60 million
  Tax Collected                                    US$ 11 million
 Exports made                                      US$ 15 million

The above numbers are very conservative estimates as they do not take into account jobs
indirectly created by MCF funded projects especially in agriculture and agro-processing industries.
Given the size of the Zambian private sector the impact of the project has been substantial. For
example the total direct number of jobs created is equivalent to ten percent of formal employment
in the manufacturing sector.

One of the major benefits of MCF was the establishment of an effective and efficient mechanism
for channelling investment finance in Zambia without creating a burden on limited fiscal resources.
The efficiency and effectiveness of MCF can best be demonstrated by comparing MCF's
performance with that of the Development Bank of Zambia which acted as the principal avenue
for channeling development finance until the early 1990s. The recent joint Bank - Fund Financial
Sector Assessment suggests that ninety-one percent of DBZ's portfolio is non-perfoming and
DBZ's yearly administrative costs is about $3 million despite the fact that DBZ could not make a
single loan over the past five years. The overall fiscal burden of DBZ through government
servicing of DBZ's external obligations and outstanding current obligations which also carry
government guarantees are more than US $100 millions On the other hand, MCF has had no
default (and none expected over the foreseeable future); its operational costs averaged about



                                               - 11 -

 $150,000 per year including administrative fee income charged by BOZ; and sinking fund to pay
 off ID has already accumulated about $ 2 million. One other important observation is that
 average loan size of MCF was nearly about one third of average DBZ loan.

 Matching Grant Scheme.         This component is rated unsatisfactory. MGS started operating in
 October 1998 and closed in February 2003 after 3 years of operating under the original
 management contract and another year (after a 6 months interval), under an extension contract
 with the same management contractor.

 Out of the total available, US$ 2.5 millions, only 45% were actually disbursed, with disbursements
 amounting to 85% of amounts approved. This suggests a very limited success. All in all, only
 US$ 1.11 millions out of the allocated US$ 2.5 millions were disbursed. The MGS approved 90
 requests, out of 171 applications, and actual disbursement went to 63 beneficiaries.

 Manufacturing was the main beneficiary of MGS accounting for about 39% of total grants.
 However, other sectors also benefited from MGS activities. Table 6 presents a summary of MGS
 beneficaries by sector:

 Table 6. Sectoral Breakdown of MGS

  Sector                                Share (%)
  Manufacturing                                  39
  Services (non-financial)                       30
  Agriculture                                    14
  Financial Services                              6
  Tourism                                          6
  Construction                                    6

About one third of grants were used to support training activities. Productivity improvement
programs had a substantial share in total grants. Table 7 gives a breakdown of grants by type of
activities.

 Table 7. Activities Supported by MGS Grants


  Area of Support                                    Share in Total
                                                          (%)
  Training                                                31.75
  Productivity                                            25.40
  Marketing                                               11.11
  Quality Improvement                                     9.52
  Installing New Technology                               9.52
  Service Delivery Enhancement                            6.35
  Management system improvement                            6.35



                                                 - 12 -

In terms of individual grant size ­ 23 beneficiaries (37%) received less than US$ 5000 each,
whereas 7 beneficiaries received more than US$ 50,000 each. 33 beneficiaries received between
US$ 5000 and 50,000. However, the 7 largest beneficiaries received 42% of all funds disbursed.

Table 8. Grant Size

 Grant size                                 Number of Beneficiaries
 Less than US$ 5,000                                    23
 Between US$ 5,000 and US$ 50,000                        33
 More than US$ 50,000                                     7

Revenue multiple of grants (i.e. revenue generated from grant financed activity in terms of a
multiple grant amount, traditional measure of grant schemes) realized as 32 as opposed to target
of 10. Despite such a performance, benefits of MGS were quite limited. It is also clear that at
least in some cases, the larger grants went to the largest and strongest companies in Zambia.
These had invested their own funds in activities similar to those funded by the scheme. The
availability of MGS funds may have caused them to replace their own funds with grants, thus not
really increasing their total investment in intangibles.

A careful review of MGS in Zambia suggests that reasons for a limited success could not be
attributed to frequent problems that arise in MGS type of initiative such as lack of awareness,
cash flow problems of firms. Substantial promotional activity took place through the program life.
Furthermore, the management board of the MGS consisted of representatives virtually all private
sector associations. At the beginning of the project, some firms found it difficult to provide
upfront finance to grant related activities and ran into cash-flow problems.    However, this
problem was adequately dealt with promptly almost immediately after project started by allowing
interim payments for milestone activities from MGS. Therefore, one has to look beyond these
factors to identify reasons for limited success of MGS.

The contractor report suggests that the main cause for low level of participation is the general
depressed economic situation and high level of uncertainty at the time the project was promoted.
From interviews with beneficiaries it is also clear that the application forms and the requirements
for documentation to receive reimbursement of actual expenditures, were rather complex for very
small businesses. Undoubtedly, all of these have played a role on the ultimate performance of
MGS. However, these still cannot explain why MGS did not perform as well as it was expected.
A more comprehensive and plausible explanation of limited performance of MGS should be the
lack of corporate depth in Zambia. If one assumes a median grant size of about US$ 12,500 and a
fifty percent approval ratio, MGS needed about four hundred companies. The mainstream
Zambian corporate sector does not have such a depth.

It must also be noted that the special allocation for matching grants to small local commercial
banks was not used at all. While it is clear that the bankers knew about this facility, none of them
approached the MGS contractor to receive funds. One possible explanation of this was the
turbulence in Zambian banking scene where many local banks (about eleven) became insolvent
and BOZ had to intervene. The focus of the remaining few local banks was to preserve their



                                                 - 13 -

standing and not to get into expansionary undertakings.

Technical Assistance. Technical Assistance components of the project are rated satisfactory.
The funds allocated to MGS management and apex initial operations (MGS TA and Apex TA
respectively) were used as planned and enabled the operations of the EDP two major components.


MGS TA is rated satisfactory. This component funded The MGS management contractor.
PriceWaterhouseCoopers was selected through an international competitive bidding as the MGS
contractor. They performed all that was agreed. However, the extension of the contract left a
period in which the scheme was dormant, losing some of the impact of promotional work done
before, at high cost.

Apex TA is rated highly satisfactory. This component funded apex operations. Apex unit was
able to set up systems to process PFI applications, loan application and monitor performance of
outstanding loans in accordance with the operational policies and principles laid down by the
project. Furthermore, the apex unit developed a capacity to generate financial and managerial
reports as well as monitor the economic impact of lending activity. In essence, a small second-tier
institution has been created through the establishment of the apex unit.

The BOZ-TA component which is rated highly satisfactory was a result of the EDP intention to
use BOZ supervision activities as the continuous source of information regarding PFIs and
potential PFIs, instead of creating a separate monitoring unit for PFIs in the apex organization.
EDP support was intended to improve BOZ supervision and thus benefit the economy in general,
the financial stability of the economy and provide up-to-date and reliable information to the MCF
apex. Due to other donors' technical assistance support to BOZ, the Bank and BOZ adjusted the
details of the EDP BOZ TA component to identified needs not financed by other donors. BOZ
TA was conducted by contracting Deloitte & Touche (D&T) and focused on supporting bank
supervision and the newly formed non-bank supervision department. D&T reviewed the whole
array of the BOZ non-bank supervision department activities, procedures and reporting formats.
In addition, D&T prepared blueprints for financial statements by banks and NBFIs. These are
based on international accounting standards. The D&T output included exemplary financial
statements as well as detailed definitions for all financial statements' items. This set is intended for
use by all financial institutions reporting to bank and non-bank supervision departments in BOZ,
guaranteeing unity in financial institutions' reports and usage of items' definitions. Another BOZ
TA component was for review of all laws and regulations related to BOZ supervision and control
of the financial system, resulting in recommendations regarding changes required in the laws and
regulation to enhance BOZ supervision and enforcement. BOZ TA component evolved from
continuous dialogue between BOZ and the Bank, to the benefit of BOZ and the EDP.

ZNCB-TA component is rated satisfactory. This component was originally designed to support a
twinning arrangement between ZNCB and a foreign commercial bank. Bank of Ireland (BI) was
selected in a competitive bidding process as the provider of technical assistance. BI was
contracted to assist ZNCB in updating their policies and procedures in the areas of credit, treasury
and internal audits. In all three areas, BI supplied to ZNCB sets of manuals, forms and formats



                                                 - 14 -

and conducted staff training. However, while the BI program was successfully implemented,
ZNCB's management team was replaced and shortly after the bank got into serious financial
problems. These changes and financial problems diminished the impact of BI's assistance. ZNCB
is currently in the process of privatization, with international bids are being evaluated. While the
original intention was to enable ZNCB to become qualified as a MCF PFI, this never happened.

The training program for commercial banks (BANK TA) is rated highly satisfactory . This
component was designed to train staff of Zambian financial institution in the areas of long-term
lending and trade related financial services. Training courses was conducted by the Zambia
Institute of Bankers, through an international consulting firm, Pangaea Partners, which was
selected through an international competitive bidding process. The intensive courses took place
during the period September to December 1998. Fifty-nine staff from almost all financial
institutions participated and passed the final exams successfully (note Staff Appraisal Report
indicates a target of between 40 -60 staff). The program impact on the MCF was limited due to
staff mobility between units in the institution and between institutions. However, almost all
participants rated positively the skills acquired by participation in the courses. This component
helped to build skills in Zambian financial sector as well as made aware of the project across the
sector.

Another TA component, Export Board of Zambia (EBZ) TA, failed to achieve its purpose despite
its successful implementation and is rated unsatisfactory. The EDP TA funds were intended to
provide training in a developed economy in on-line trade related information resources, to one
staff member of EBZ. It was envisioned that EBZ could operate an information service for a
nominal fee to Zambian businesses. Although one staff member was trained in UK and a
subsequent internal trainings were carried out, EBZ was not able to establish a viable information
service as envisioned. A high turnover of EBZ staff (people trained have all left) and dramatic
changes in information technology with internet becoming a major and widely available
information source.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
A set of institutional development objectives was targeted by EDP components. MGS's main
focus in this regard was to create an institution of utilization of expert consultants during
production process by Zambian firms to become and stay internationally competitive. MCF' s
institutional development targets were: (i) creation of a second-tier financial institution to channel
long term resources to commercial banks and a new way of providing investment finance in
Zambia; (ii) creating of a new credit culture which enterprises repay their loans; and (iii)
promoting sound banking practices. The institutional development targets of technical assistance
components were: (i) assisting establishment of a better prudential regulatory system; (ii) making
ZNCB more competitive; (iii) helping Zambain financial sector build human skills; (iv) assisting
EBZ to widen its scope of services.



                                                 - 15 -

The institutional development impacts of the EDP components vary. There was very limited
impact to the MGS component. There may have been some introduction of businesses that never
before used external services for managerial, marketing or technical improvements. However, this
may have occurred in a very small number of businesses (as only 53 businesses benefited from the
MGS altogether) and some of them were already using such services, while others could not
afford to continue to use such services at full costs.

The MCF has had a very significant impact on the way the financial sector provides credit to
businesses. It institutionalized this process by essentially creating a second-tier financial
institution (apex unit). Before the MCF was made available, banks' credit was mainly short-term,
in local currency, and at very high nominal interest rates (a combination of high real interest rates
and high inflation as well as strong competition by Treasury Bills and government bonds). The
introduction of the MCF provided a source of reasonably priced foreign exchange denominated
funds to be lent by the banks to their clients. The medium to long term credit (all denominated in
foreign currency) became a substantial segment of total lending by the financial sector to the
private sector. Furthermore, other international institutions (both multilateral and bilateral)
introduced into Zambia lines of credit on terms and conditions very similar to those of the EDP
MCF. One can identify a significant and positive structural change in the availability, processing
and granting of medium-term credit in Zambia. MCF also helped the process of changing credit
culture in Zambia. Investment finance historically provided by the Developmet Bank of Zambia
(DBZ) in Zambia. Borrowers from DBZ rarely repaid their loans and a culture of non-repayment
had been established. Utilization of commercial banks changed this attitude as the lender of
record became commercial banks which aggresively pursued loan servicing.

The institutional impact of technical assistance was also high for BOZ where it supported the
bank supervision department. The positive impact of this technical assistance was even more on
the newly created non-bank financial institutions department. The BOZ bank and non-bank
supervision department did improve their capacity and quality significantly in the last several
years, thanks to the support of the EDP TA as well as assistance provided by other donors and
the successful implementation of the new know-how by the departments' staff and management.

Other components of the TA had more limited and temporary institutional impact, including the
training of PFIs' staff in new types of credit activities. The TA allocated to ZNCB had an impact
on the bank' technical capacity. Unfortunately, problems not related to EDP limited the impact of
this technical assistance. TA to EBZ contributed little to EBZ's institutional development.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major macro-economic problems that Zambia faced immediately after the beginning of the
EDP implementation affected, and certainly delayed, the implementation of the project.
Uncertainty of ZCCM privatization, interruptions in donor support, political problems, high
inflation and erratic devaluation caused reluctance by businesses to spend and invest (in both
intangibles and tangible assets) for the long-term. These conditions also affected commercial
banks willingness to take medium-term credit risks. When some of these uncertainties were



                                                     - 16 -

diminished, as a result of ZCCM privatization, confidence levels of businesses and financial
institutions improved. The improved confidence stimulated demand for EDP resources and the
project started performing at a very high pace.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
For several components, including the MGS, and the BOZ and ZNCB technical assistance, some
delays in implementation were caused by delays in procurement process. The Ministry of Trade,
Commerce & Industry had frequent changes at the beginning which required learning periods for
the new staff. It should not be coincidence the project started performing well when a certain
stability was attained both at the project coordinator level and apex management level.

The implementation of the MCF suffered from two problems:

    (i) For some time PFIs were led to believe that the project design would be changed to allow
    them to intermediate the MCF funds without taking the credit risks. Only after realizing that
    the basic design of MCF were not changed, they began to use the facility and later fully
    utilized all the funds available; and
    (ii) To allow immediate lending, the original design called for using a private sector financial
    institution to manage the fund until permanent arrangements will be made. CitiBank, which at
    the time was not interested in being a PFI, became the original temporary manager of the apex
    operations with no objections from other banks. While CitiBank was not interested in long
    and medium-term lending, it started an aggressive pursuit of short-term and forex related
    clients. In response, PFIs started perceiving CitiBank as a strong competitor and hesitated to
    provide CitiBank, in its capacity as the apex manager, with the information on their clients.
    Only after the apex operations were moved to BOZ, did the PFIs feel comfortable to file
    applications for loans from the MCF, disclosing information about their clients.

Government's response to move apex to BOZ was timely and highly effective.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project unit at the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Trade (MCTI), the Apex Unit at BOZ and
MGS contractor were empowered to follow all process related activities. The project unit at MCTI after it
achieved certain stability in terms of its staff have operated well. The apex unit at BOZ performed very
well with no significant problems. They followed up with approvals, disbursements and repayments as
they should. MGS contractor also worked well as defined by its contract.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project's cost and financing structure has not changed

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated likely as the main component, MCF, stands a good chance of
sustainability. MCF has created a functioning system of lending, through the financial system, of
medium-term funds, with a working repayment mechanism (using BOZ clearing system with
automatic charging on due dates). Furthermore, other international lenders, including EIB and
the French PROPARCO are now adopting to a large extent the MCF's terms and conditions to



                                                      - 17 -

their lines of credit. Thus, forex medium-term lending is now well entrenched in the Zambia
financial environment.

Due to the design of the MCF, with perpetually re-lending funds collected from the original
borrowers, the sustainability of apex operation becomes critical. There are significant risks
(i.e.moving away from the original design of the fund and operational principles) in this regard.
Zambia's institutions are fragile and the amount of funds managed by apex operation is relatively
large. While the current authorities have expressed their desire for continuous operations of the
MCF as it was designed, one cannot rule out risks such as allowing financial institutions that do
not meet eligibility criteria to become PFIs and/or to move the apex activity to an unsuitable
organization or setting in the future. The latter is the most cirtical risk. Given the institutional
structures in Zambia, it is perhaps best to maintain apex in BOZ in the medium term. Maintaining
efficiency and effectiveness of the apex unit would not be easy in any setting outside of BOZ as:
(i) fixed costs of the apex operations will inevitably increase; (ii) close collaboration of BOZ's
supervision department with the apex unit will suffer, hence decreasing quality of PFI selection
and monitoring process; and (iii) the collection system which currently utilizes BOZ's settlement
system will be loosened.

Given the risks and the stakes (substantial portion private sector financing, macroeconomic
implications, etc.), the World Bank should stay engaged and closely monitor the functioning of
apex operations and assist government to sustain apex operations. This engagement can be carried
out within ongoing policy dialogue. A follow up operation to EDP can also provide means to
assist the Zambian government to maintain apex operations at high standards.

The MGS impact was limited to a very small number of individual businesses. It is almost
impossible to evaluate how many of the 63 beneficiaries continue to invest in intangibles, and
would not have done so without the MGS experience. The limited number of beneficiaries and
the inclusion of some large businesses that would have invested in intangibles anyway, suggest
very limited long-term impact.

The TA support to BOZ certainly contributed to the quality of prudential supervision of the
financial system, together with other donors' support. The BOZ departments engaged in
prudential oversight of financial system are now more established and have better equipped. All
indications are such that these departments will improve further and the project's effort in this field
will be sustained.

The TA to ZNCB helped the bank, deterioration of ZNCB's financial position reduced the TA
impact, and this assistance may even become largely redundant when ZNCB is sold to an
international banking group.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
n.a.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



                                                  - 18 -

During the preparation and design stages of EDP, the Bank initiated, conducted and evaluated the
needs and potential of the private sector and of the financial sector, making the EDP's major
components responsive to the need of these sectors. Project design was simple with several
independent elements, clear administrative responsibilities, and based on maximum use of existing
institutions (commercial banks and leasing companies, BOZ supervision of financial institutions,
EBZ and ZIB). Project risks and potential benefits were carefully analyzed and presented in the
Staff Appraisal Report.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project was satisfactory. During the first two years, the Bank's country team
was under considerable pressure to change the MCF design. The Task Team withstood these
pressures and prevented potentially unfortunate changes. It appears that confusion about the
Bank's position on the design caused delays in utilization of MCF funds. The Bank's senior
country management could have been more assertive in clearing these misinterpretations.

The Task Team was also pro-active in dealing with changing circumstances. For example, a euro
facility was introduced, interest rates were decreased and the minimum rate was eliminated.
Reduction of interest rate and introduction of euro facility were good decisions. However, it took
seven months for the Bank to process internally the Task Team's recommendations. It appears
that the task team considered International low levels of interest rates a temporary and therefore,
agreed to the elimination of the minimum interest rate. Given the prolonged stay of low levels of
interest rates, the task team has already advised the apex unit to re-introduced a minimum rate
back again.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Activities leading up to lending were relevant and crucial
for the project. The project preparation team was well staffed with sufficient resources. Supervision was
also satisfactory. Procurement and disbursement problems were significantly less than other investment
projects in Zambia in the same time period.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During the preparation of the EDP, government and other institutions in Zambia fully cooperated
and actively participated in the design of the program. The Minister of MCTI at the time
strongly supported the project and made his ministry team work in close collaboration with the
Bank team. Ministry of Finance, BOZ and all private and public sector entities involved fully
cooperated in the preparation and the design of the project

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance was satisfactory. Government made available all the resources
necessary both during the preparation and implementation of the project. High levels of
government officials made themselves available and showed keen interest in facilitating the
project's implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of MCTI's project unit was satisfactory. After suffering from high turnover in the unit
staff and frequent changes in senior ministerial staff, the unit was stabilized at the time when the



                                                     - 19 -

disbursements started to pick up. The project unit staff provided necessary follow ups with various
components of the project. They also constantly monitor the implementation process and tried to measure
the impact of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory. The borrower has maintained sufficient degree of
commitment to the project's success despite significant political changes during the project's
implementation. The borrower also supported the Bank's task team in all phases of the project. The
Ministry of Finance, MCTI and BOZ all maintained their support at high levels.

8. Lessons Learned

Zambia EDP offers valuable lessons for operations containing lines of credit, matching grant
schemes and technical assistance. Zambia EDP also provides good guidance for country
directors, resident representatives and task team leaders on how similar operations can be
designed and managed.

Lessons for line of credit operations. Zambia EDP's MCF component's excellent performance
indicates several very important lessons regarding preparation and design of lines of credit. Firstly,
it shows that lines of credit operations must be prepared after carrying out substantial economic
sector work both in real and financial sectors. Secondly, it emphasizes that lines of credit
operations should be in tune with overall macro economic policies and ongoing reform programs.
Thirdly, it demonstrates that credit lines are most effective when they are fully intermediated by
commercial banks.

MCF's smooth and highly cost effective operation provides significant lessons as well. Firstly, a
universal and transparent eligibility criteria (i.e. compliance with prudential norms) and
transparent credit line limits (i.e. equivalent to firt-tier capital) simplified the application and
approval process of financial intermediaries. Secondly, automatic collections by the apex during
settlement process enhanced credit discipline. Thirdly, certification of financial intermediaries by
the regulator promoted compliance with prudential rules and eliminated a costly financial
intermediary evaluation process. Consequently, the apex became a true conduit of funds and not
an entity evaluating risks. Locating apex operations in the central bank also contributed
significantly to MCF's performance. Having the apex located in the central bank reduced costs and
facilitated coordination with financial system supervisors.

MCF also offers solutions to deal with risks associated with foreign exchange denominated
lending by essentially dividing these risks in two parts. First, the foreign exchange rate risk was
left entirely with the borrowers. Second, the foreign exchange availability risks (i.e. possible
re-introduction of currency controls. etc.) was assumed by the apex by making it possible to pay
in local currency at the prevailing exchange rate of the repayment date. MCF's unique sinking
fund arrangement also shows that lines of credit operations in IDA countries can be designed in
such a way that these credits can be repaid to IDA in time without relying on fiscal resources.

Lessons for MGS operations. EDP's MGS component clearly shows that such schemes, when
designed for mainstream businesses, are very much dependent on the size of the existing
corporate sector. In the absence of deeper formal private sectors MGS type of instruments


                                                    - 20 -

benefit only a handful of firms. Therefore, overall impact of MGS becomes very limited.
Moreover, administering MGS type of activities are costly undertakings. Having few beneficiaries
but costly administrative mechanisms reduces benefits further. Given these observations, it is
clear that a very detailed analysis of potential beneficiaries must be made prior to launching any
MGS type initiative. This analysis must focus on numbers and sizes of potential beneficiary firms
as well as size of potential grant activity. Analysis must also focus on ability of these firms to
carry out grant related activities and expected duration of such activities. Cost of administering
MGS schemes should also be carefully estimated. Estimated cost of operation per grant dollar
should be within reasonable and tolerable limits.

Lessons from Technical Assistance Components. EDP's technical assistance component
demonstrates that necessary technical assistance must be included to support project's objectives
and implementation. This type of technical assistance should be planned ahead with sufficient
room to be flexible. Timing and content are crucial for the success of technical assistance. EDP's
technical assistance component also shows that technical assistance is beneficial when it is
extended to sustainable institutions. Furthermore, the impact of technical assistance to
state-owned financial institutions may not be sustainable for various reasons including higher
likelihood of encountering financial difficulties, changes in senior management and privatization.

Lessons related to project design and supervision. EDP demonstrates that modular project
design with clear identification of operational responsibilities eases implementation. Modularity
essentially localizes problems during implementation and prevents a contagion of problems across
the entire project. EDP also highlights the need for close supervision of credit line operations.
Country Director, Sector Manager, Resident Representative and the Task Team Leader should
act in unison in a mutually supporting manner to reach original objectives.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government has reviewed the draft ICR and provided some comments. All of these comments have been
incorporated in the final version.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
1) revenue generated by MGS in terms of a      9                                           9
multiple of the grant element;
2) rate of return on the investment projects   12 - 15 %                                   12 -15 %
that were financed by the Investment Credit
Facility (ICF);
3) export revenue generated through Export     $ 13 mil                                    $15 mil
Preshipment Facility (ECF);
4) employment impact;                          5400                                        6000
5) number of intermediaries participating in   11                                          11
the lines of credit;
6) average loan size, maturity, sector and     average loan $ 275,000                      average loan $300,000
customer profile for each participating          maturity 2 - 5 years                       maturity 2 - 5 years
financial intermediary (PFI),(i.e., to see if    leasing companies targeting small, bigger leasing companies targeting small, bigger
PFIs start specializing in certain market      banks are lending more to agriculture and   banks are lending more to agriculture and
segments);                                     agroprocessing                              agroprocessing
7) independent devlopment of similar lines of EIB modeled its line of credit after MCF     EIB, KfW is also expressing interest
credit;
8) collection performance of Apex.             perfect                                     perfect


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate




1 End of project
                                             Key Performance Indicators

    Project Development                           Impact/Outcome                                            Outcome
             Objectives                                Indicators

Support to the private                        Increase in private sector                Substantial increase in
sector by facilitation of                     investments in intangible                 investments in tangible
tangible and intangible                       and tangible assets                       assets. Little increase in
investments.                                                                            investments in intangible
                                                                                        assets.
       Outputs from each                         Output indicators                                  Actual Output
             component

Support investments in                        Utilization of MGS                        Partial utilization of
intangible assets by a                        provided by the project                   available funds (45%).
Matching Grant Scheme.                                                                  Smaller than expected
                                                                                        number of beneficiaries
                                                                                        (63).

                                              Special fund to support                   No use was made of this



                                                                 - 22 -

                              local banks modernization     special MGS allocation.

Support investments in        Sums of loans provided by     Out of available US $ 40
tangible assets and           the Participating Financial   millions, and recycling of
production for exports by a   Institutions (PFIs).          sums collected US $ 60
Multipurpose Credit Facility                                millions were disbursed by
through the financial sector.                               project closing.

                              Interest by main financial    Most of the important
                              institutions to become        eligible financial institutions
                              PFIs.                         participate in the project.

                                                            100% collection
                                                            performance to date.
                              Recollection performance.
                                                            By project closing 192
                                                            businesses borrowed MCF
                              Number of beneficiaries       funds. All sectors benefited
                              and their sectarian and size  with 44% to agriculture
                              distribution                  and agro processing. Small
                                                            loans/leases, under US $
                                                            100,000 are more than
                                                            30% of the number of
                                                            loans. Large loans, above
                                                            US $ 1,000,000 are 3% of
                                                            number of loans and only
                                                            13% of amounts disbursed.
Supportive TA to facilitate   Financing the management      Apex and MGS operations
MGS, MCF and Export           contractor for the MGS        were financed
Board                         and the initial operations of
                              the MCF apex.




                              Support to BOZ to             Successful support to BOZ
                              strengthen supervision of     supervision departments
                              banks and NBFIs

                              Support to banks by           Training was successful. 59
                              training of staff (between    staff across the final sector
                              40 -60)                       were trained

                                                            TA successfully provided;
                              Support to ZNCB               due to other reasons,
                                                            ZNCB failed to qualify as a



                                             - 23 -

                            PFI.

Support to Export Board     TA to Export Board failed
to create a modern          to support the creation of
information access services the services, for which the
for Zambian exporters.      TA was planned




             - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
MGS                                                          5.00            1.30            9.57
MGS-BANK                                                     0.60            0.00            1.15
ICF                                                         33.33          30.60            63.79
EPF                                                         11.12            8.00           21.28
Total TA                                                     1.95            2.21            3.73

Total Baseline Cost                                         52.00          42.11
                        Total Project Costs                 52.00          42.11
                  Total Financing Required                  52.00          42.11


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        52.25                      52.25
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (45.00)          ()        (45.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00                      0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)          ()         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00        52.25         0.00         52.25
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (45.00)        (0.00)      (45.00)




                                                - 25 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.52             0.00              1.52
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.45)            (0.00)           (1.45)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              1.52             0.00              1.52
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.45)            (0.00)           (1.45)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
MGS                            4.50         0.50                     1.30                               28.9      0.0
MGS-BANK                       0.50         0.10                     0.00                                0.0      0.0
ICF                           23.33        10.00                    30.60                               131.2     0.0
EPF                            5.56         5.56                     8.00                               143.9     0.0
EDP-MGS TA                     0.25         0.25                     0.60                               240.0     0.0
EDP-BANK TA                    0.15         0.05                     0.15                               100.0     0.0
EDP-ZNCGB TA                   0.30         0.10                     0.40                               133.3     0.0
EDP-APEX TA                    0.20         0.20                     0.65                               325.0     0.0
EDP-EBZ TA                     0.05                                  0.05                               100.0
EDP-BOZ TA                     0.20         0.20                     0.30                               150.0     0.0
Unallocated                    0.25                                  0.01                                4.0




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project's Economic costs and Beneifts are as follows:

A. MGS:

Costs:

IDA Credit :             $1.1 mil

Private Firms:           $1.1 mil

Operational Costs:       $0.6 mil

Total MGS Costs:         $2.8 mil

Benefits:

Corporate Revenue:       $33 mil.

Corporate Profits:       $3.3 mil

(note: corporate revenue is estimated by using estimated revenue multiple of 30 based on impact surveys.
Corporate profits are estimated by using 10% profit margin)

B. MCF Cost and Benefits

Costs*:

IDA Credit**:            $60.0 mil.

Private Firms***:        $15.0 mil.

Cost of Apex operation: $0.40 mil.

Benefits:

Direct Employment:       6,000 jobs

Corporate Revenue:       $60 mil.

Tax Revenue:             $11 mil.

Export Revenue:          $15 mil.

Share of Private Sector Credit : 15%


* MCF costs, excluding apex costs. actually represents amount of investment that the project facilitated.
This itself should be regarded as a benefit and represents signifcant amount of investment in Zambia.
Given the fcat that Zambia's gross investment is about $300 million per year (about 14-15% of GDP),
investment financed by EDP represents about 50% of yearly gross investment. In other words, EDP
financed about 15% of total gross investments in Zambia per year during past three years. It is therefore
not surprising to see EDP funds now constitute 15% of total credit to private sector.

**IDA credit amount includes recycled funds of $20 mil.

**Private Firms contribution is estimated by using an average 30% equity contribution for investment loans
and 10% working capital contribution for export production loans (based on interviews with financial
intermediaries)



                                                    - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               01/18/1996                5    TTL (1) PSD Specialist (2)            S               S
                                              FS (2)

 Supervision

               07/05/1997                 4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                              FINANCIAL SECTOR (1);
                                              PRIVATE SECTOR (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT (1)
               03/05/1998                 2   TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                              FINANCIAL SECTOR (1)
               06/28/1998                 2   TEAM LEADER (1); FSD                  S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
               02/18/1999                 1   TEAM LEADER (1)                       U               U
               12/03/1999                 2   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                   S               S
                                              OFFICER (1)
               10/16/2000                 2   TTL (1); FIELD OFFICE                 S               S
                                              SUPPORT (1)
               06/29/2001                 3   TTL (1); PSD (1);                     S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT (1)
               02/23/2002                 3   TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT (1); FMS (1)
               07/05/2002                 1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
               03/19/2003                 5   Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
                                                 Sector Manager (1)
                                                 PSD Specialist (1)
                                                 Financial (1)
                                                 Procurement (1)

 ICR
               06/26/2003                2     TTL (1)                              S               S
                                                 Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              140.7                          140.7
  Supervision                             310.9                          176.9
  ICR                                      15.1                            22.0
  Total                                   458.4                          508.7




                                               - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
 It must be noted apex unit's implementation and Bank of Zambia's role was rated highly satisfactory




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report
QAG Report
Aide Memoires
Back-to-Office Reports
Apex Unit Progress Reports
MGS Progress Reports
BOZ Reports on Technical Assistance




                                       - 31 -

- 32 -

