Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17550-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Cr. 2219-CHA)
March 31, 1998
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal: US$1.00 = Yuan 5.22
1994: US$1.00 = Yuan 8.7
Completion: US$1.00 = Yuan 8.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURIES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FYRR               First Year Rate of Return
ICB                International Competitive Biddiing
IRR                Internal Rate of Return
LUCRPO             Liaoning Provincial Project Office
MOF                Ministry of Finance
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
TA                 Technical Assistance
UTNDP              United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Regional Vice President          Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director                 Yukon Huang
Sector Manager                   Keshav Varma
T ask Manager                    Edouard Motte



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPOR'T
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Cr. 2219-CHA)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Part 1:       Project Implementation Assessment                         ..................................1
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ............................................2
B.   Achievement of Objectives .............................................2
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................4
D.  Project Sustainability ............................................5
E.   IDA's Performance ............................................6
F.   Borrower Performanice ............................................6
G.  Assessment of Outcome .............................................8
H.  Future Operations ......8.....................................8
1.    Key Lessons Learned ............................................9
Part II:    Statistical Annexes
'T'able 1: Summary of Assessment .10
I'able 2: Related Loans/Credits .                                                                          11
'able 3: Project Timetable .11
'l'able 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated vs. Actual .12
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .12
'I'able 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .12
'Table 7: Studies Included in the Project                                       .3
'I'able 8A: Project Costs ...........................................                                      13
Table 8B: Project Financing ...........................................                                    14
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................                       . 14
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                           15
Table I 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................. ................ 16
Table 12:  IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................                ,        16
Talble 13: IDA Resources: Missions ..........................                                              17
Appendix: ICR Mission's Confirmation Letter and Aide-Memoire
Map IBRD 21960
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2219-CHA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Liaoning Urban
Infrastructure Project in China, for which Cr. 2219-CHA in the amount of SDR 54.2
million (US$77.8 million equivalent) was approved on March 21, 1 991 and made
effective on July 24, 1991.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1997, compared with the original closing
date of June 30, 1996. The final disbursement took place on July 25. 1997, at which time
a balance of SDR 0.26 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Edouard H. Motte, Urban Development Sector
Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region (EASUR) and Leon H. Miller (consultant) and was
reviewed by Messrs. Keshav Varma, Sector Manager, EASUR, and Yukon Huang,
Country Director, China.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's last supervision mission in April
1 997 and is based on those findings and materials in the project file. The Borrower did
not submit an ICR, nor comment on IDA's ICR.



iii
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Cr. 2219-CHA)
CHINA
Evaluation Summary
I ntroduction
i.    This project was for Liaoning Province, an important industrial base in northern
C hinla. The project was the initial phase of an investment program aimed at addressing
water shortages and poor water quality in the cities of Shenyang, Ylngkou and Fuxin, and
shortcomings in urban transport in Shenyang.
Project Objectives
i i.    The objectives of the project were: (a) to improve water supplv conditions in the
thr ee project cities through physical works and strengthening of institutions, regulations,
mlaniacement, financial and pricing policies; (b) to improve traffic and public transport
coonditions in Shenyang through a pilot program of selected low-cost physical works and
institutional strengthening; and (c) to improve measures for water pollution abatement
through technical assistance in wastewater treatment, and strengthening of institutions
and enforcement measures for water pollution control.
iii.   Key Covenants. In view of the importance of the institutional capacity building
objectives cited above, the Development Credit Agreement provided covenants for: (a)
studies on water resource and water pricing; (b) water companies to carry out an action
plan to improve water metering, system leakage and staffing levels; and (c) water
companies to furnish IDA with annual financial forecasts for rolling eight-year periods.
Although there were no covenants pertaining to training per se, the project plan provided
for training and advisors for each of the water companies and for the transport bureaus.
ix.   Project Objectives Evaluation. The physical objectives were realistic, but the
institutional objectives were somewhat ambitious. Over the life of the project, all the
objectives proved suitable in the context of the subsequent economic development and
reforms undertaken by the country. The physical objectives carried little or no risk to
implementation; however the institutional objectives were noted in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) as a risk to project implementation. The objectives on the whole were well
conceived for both the physical works in both the water and transport sectors in the
selected cities, and for the required institutional developments needed to have progressive
organizations in a rapidly developing province.



iv
limplementation Experience and Results
v.    Overall the project's outcome is deemed satisfactory. Achievement of the
project's physical objectives was substantial. The project exceeded its objectives for the
amount of water supply transmission and distribution watermains constructed, and was
tlhus able to increase service beyond the original targets (para 7). I'or the transport
component. major improvements in Shenyang's traffic flows were achieved (para 8).
flowever, achievement of the project's institutional and financial ob.jectives was
neriligible, as the Borrower did not realize the full benefits of the techinical assistance
(TA) and training (paras 9-12).
vi.   Implementation proceeded smoothly. The physical aspects of the project as
appraised were completed in 1994. However the closing date was extended by nine
mlonitlhs to allow for the completion and pilot implementation of two major studies, and to
complete additional works financed from Credit savings. The total project cost was
lVS$ 108 million, versus the appraisal estimate of US$128.6 million.
vii.   One factor that was subject to Governmnent control and that affected the project
wNas thie high inflation rate from 1990-94. At that time, the prices of certain construction
materials increased by as much as 100-150%. Contractors were unable to continue to
peform, so contracts had to be amended to provide cost escalation clauses (para 16).
viii.  Two factors that were subject to implementing agency control included (a) the
lack of acceptance of technical assistance (TA) and training and (b) procurement-related
difficulties. For the TA and training, LUCRPO, the Liaoning Provincial Project Office,
did not provide the necessary guidance to the consultants nor support the project's
institutional objectives. The water companies did not show the necessary commitment to
the institutional objectives. The TA and training component for transport was curtailed
by the Shenyang project office. Therefore the respective agencies did not benefit from
the TA and training that would have put them on solid financial ground (para 17).
ix.    For procurement, some difficulties were experienced with IDA's English-
lariguage procurement documents. These difficulties were overcome with close IDA
supervision and with the assistance of foreign consultants (para 18). Also the ICB
(international competitive bidding) threshold seems to have been set too low because no
ioreigrn firms ever bid on ICB contracts. National competitive bidding (NCB), instead of
being truly national, seems to have been carried out at the local level only. In the future,
NCB should be carried out in a less restricted manner (para 19).
x.    The performance of IDA in preparation is rated highly satisfactory and
satisfactory in supervision. The project's scope was rightly limited to three cities in the
Province and to two components, one for construction for two sectors (water and
transport) and one for institutional strenghthening. During supervision, IDA worked
closely with the Borrower to resolve procurement issues. Each supervision mission



v
empphasized the importance of engaging the consultants particularly oior the water sector.
'I'ask mzanager continuity was high throughout the project cycle (paras. 23-24).
xi.    The performance of the Borrower in project preparation is r ated highly
satisfactory as reflected in the high state of readiness of the procurellmenit documentation
during the lag between appraisal and Board presentation. For pro ject implementation the
Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. Construction activities were carried out
efficiently for the most part. Resettlement was well executed. However, the Borrower's
performance in carrying studies and technical assistance is rated deficienlt as noted in para
viii above.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xii.   There is a follow-on project under implementation, the Liaonillg Environment
Project (Ln. 3781-CHA) approved in 1994. A second Liaoning Envirolnment Project is
toreseen for FY2000, and a Liaoning Urban Transport Project is planned for FY99 to
carry on the work done in the transport component for Shenyang. Sustainability is rated
likely (paras 20-22).
xiii.   Key lessons learned include:
(a)    As benefits of institutional development are difficult for borrowers to
appreciate, project designs must link institutional developments to
appropriate incentives and action plans to ensure the ftull implementation
of the institutional development program early in the project (paras 9 and
14);
(b)    Contracts of greater than one year must contain price escalation clauses.
Where such clauses have been deleted in the original standard bidding
documents, they may be applied expost de facto (para 16);
(c)    The ICB contract ceiling of US$3.0 million for civil works contracts in
China is too low to attract foreign bidders. Also, NCB contracts must be
advertised at the national level and not just the local level to attract the
best quality at lowest cost (para 19); and
(d)    Provincial governments require filly experienced staff in both technical
and managerial areas and supervision to provide tlle leadership necessary
to carry out large scale investment projects and to effectively assist city
project staff (para 28).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURF PROJECT
(CREDIT 2219-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   Introduction. This project was the fourth in a series of water supply and urban
sector projects with the broad objective of improving the utilization and management of
\vater resources and urban transport services in China. This project was important to
ID A's overall strategy of assisting China in the transition from centralized development
planning to a market-responsive and efficient system of development tlhrough enterprise
reforms. The project resulted from a bilateral and UNDP-assisted Hun River Basin
Management Study, supervised by IDA staff. This study, carried out rrom 1987-89,
defined the environmental situation of water resources in the central river basin of
Liaoning Province and identified schemes to improve water resource management in the
area. The study assessed the feasibility of different schemes to improve water resource
manaoTement and water utilization, and the highest priority schemes were incorporated
into this project.
2.    From the study, the most severe water shortages were found in the cities of
Shenyang, Yingkou and Fuxin. Water demand in each of the three cities exceeded
production capacity, and supply restrictions had been imposed on both industrial and
domestic consumption. Within the cities' built-up areas, which were serviced by the City
Water Companies, all residential and commercial users were served. To meet their total
demand for water, some industrial users were extracting untreated water either from
groundwater sources or from nearby water courses to supplement the available
commercial water supply. At the time this project was prepared, it had been estimated
that the water company would produce only about one-half of the demand in 1995, and
by the year 2000, supply would meet only about one-third of demand.
3     In addition to water capacity problems, the city of Shenyang also was
csxperiencing transport constraints. The number of motor vehicles and non-motorized
vehicles, mostly bicycles, was expanding at a very high rate while bus ridership had
leveled off and in some cases even declined. This decline in bus ridership was due to
increased travel time for buses due to the congestion caused mainly by bicycle traffic and
deteriorating bus service. Poor traffic management further exacerbated the situation with
varying speeds among the different vehicle types, resulting in serious congestion, travel
delays and accidents. Traffic separation by motorized and non-motorized vehicles was



2
badly needed along with improvements in the bus companies' equipmilenlt and operations
to better service.
4.    Prqoect Objectives. The specific objectives of the project were: (a) to improve
water supply conditions in the three project cities through physical works and
strengthening of institutions, regulations, management, financial and pricing policies; (b)
to improve traffic and public transport conditions in Shenyang throLu_gh a pilot program of
selected low-cost physical works and institutional strengthening; and (c) to improve
measures for water pollution abatement through technical assistance in wastewater
treatment, and strengthening of institutions and enforcement measures for water pollution
control.
z .    Key Covenants. In view of the importance of the institutional capacity building
objectives cited above, the Development Credit Agreement provided covenants for: (a)
studies on water resource and water pricing; (b) water companies to carry out an action
plan to improve water metering, system leakage and staffing levels; and (c) water
companies to furnish IDA with annual financial forecasts for rolling eight-year periods.
Altlhough there were no covenants pertaining to training per se, the project plan provided
for training and advisors for each of the water companies and for the transport bureaus.
6.    Project Objectives Evaluation. The physical objectives were realistic, but the
instituLtional objectives were somewhat ambitious. Over the life of the project, all the
objectives proved suitable in the context of the subsequent economic development and
reformiis undertaken by the country. The physical objectives carried little or no risk to
implementation; however the institutional objectives were noted in tlle Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) as a risk to project implementation. The objectives on the whole were well
coonceived for both the physical works in both the water and transport sectors in the
selected cities, and for the required institutional developments needed to have progressive
water and transport organizations in a rapidly developing province.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    Achievement of Physical Objectivesfor Water Supply. Overall. achievement of
the project's physical objectives in water supply was substantial. Thle project met its
lplysical objectives of constructing about 277 kms of water transmission and distribution
lines., intake works, pumping stations and water treatment plants in the three cities.
Equipment was procured for water supply and pollution control monitoring. Through cost
savings realized during implementation, an additional 108 kms of water transmission and
distribution lines were constructed in the three cities. Testing of the treatment plants,
pumping stations and the transmission and distribution lines have been satisfactorily
completed. The lines exceed the design quantities for all three city schemes.
8.    Achzievement of Physical Objectives for Transport. Achievement of the project's
physical objectives in the transport sector was also substantial. Major im-provements in
Slienyang's traffic flows were achieved through the road upgrading component which
included seven corridor separation schemes, amounting to 44 kms. Thle schemes included



3
various improvements such as widening rights-of-way, installing new road signs, but
mostly separating bicycles from motorized traffic with barriers. Originally the project
provided for 10 such schemes, but later in implementation it was aTreed that three of
them would be included in a future program that would include liglht rail transport
(proposed Liaoning Urban Transport Project, FY99). The funds originally earmarked for
these three corridors were used to construct five flyovers. "Before-and-after" studies
conducted on the improved corridors found that traffic speeds had improved by up to 13
km/hr. yielding a very significant FYRR of about 40%. The improvements on the whole
have reduced the number accidents by approximately 65%. Road maintenance, traffic
signalling and bus depot equipment were provided under the project.
9.    Achievement of Objectives for Institutional Strengthening. Achievement of the
project's institutional building objectives was negligible. Technical assistance for the
water supply component included two major studies: Water Resource Pricing and Urban
Water Supply Tariffs. Considerable delays were encountered in the completion of both.
When finally completed, the drafts of these studies were found unsatisfactory and reviews
by foreign consultants were delayed until the reports could be revised by the local
consultants who in fact changed little. The Province studied the proposed reforms and
measures. IDA agreed to a nine-month extension of the closing date to allow more time
to implement the reforms, but they were carried out only in a pilot stage. The Province
and the water conmpanies, therefore, were not able to benefit from the studies' results
which provided guidelines for setting appropriate tariffs and determininig provincial
policies and guidelines that would have placed them on the sound financial ground
necessary for a viable enterprise.
10.   A few cases of relatively successful technical assistance may be cited. First,
computerized billing systems and leak detection programs were implemented, although
only on1 a pilot basis in the three cities. It is expected that the programs will be
implemented throughout the three cities in the future. Second, the institutional measures
for traffic planning and management systems developed under the project have been
integrated into Shenyang's traffic management system. Finally, the US$1.15 million
used for water pollution monitoring provided infonnation for the preparation of the
follow-on Liaoning Environmental Project (Ln. 3781-CHA).
11.   Training included overseas field visits and in-house training for both the water
supply and transport components. For the water supply componenl, training in project
management and construction supervision was carried out by the foreign consultants
advising on that component. Three technical experts were to be assiglned to the water
companies for one year to support their personnel in the areas of planninig and preparation
of projects, water supply operations, leakage detection, personnel resource development,
and financial advice; however they were never employed due to difficulties in locating
suitable candidates. After it was determined that suitable candidates were not available
for a one-year assignment, it was agreed that short-term specialists would be recruited to
provide advice to the water companies in special technical areas. Of the group of



4
specialists planned, there was only one short-term advisor employed by the three water
companies amounting to two weeks each to advise them on the water leakage program.
12.   In the transport sector, training was carried out by foreign consultants in the areas
of traffic engineering, planning, enforcement (safety), bus operations and workshop
management, and bus maintenance and manufacture. Unfortunately, the full technical
assistance and training program for the transport component was cUrtai led before
completion by the Shenyang project office. The unwillingness of the ploject offices to
implement the technical assistance components as planned during appraisal severely
diluted the effectiveness of this component.
13.   Resettlement. Regarding IDA's social objectives concerning involuntary
resettlement, achievement was substantial. Resettlement was not a major difficulty in
this project since the LUCRPO and the three city project offices had prepared suitable
plans for both the acquisition of land and the resettlement of inhabitants as part of their
project preparation activities. A resettlement action plan satisfactory to IDA was agreed
upon at negotiations and included in the SAR. Acquisition of land and businesses was
completed prior to project implementation. A small number of homes and businesses
were resettled with minimal disruption to those concerned. The land to be leased was for
laying transmission watermains through farmland and was arranged with regard to the
crop-growing seasons to minimize the time out of cultivation. After construction of the
transmission watermains, this land was returned to the farmers.
14.   Overall, the project's design was appropriate for meeting thle project's objectives.
Limited criteria for evaluating the performance of the project were included in the SAR,
annex 18, but they pertained only to the civil works components.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.   Factors not generally subject to Government control. The major factors affecting
the project were generally subject to Government or implementing agency control.
Factors generally subject to Government control
16.   Project Cost Overruns. During the period 1990-1994 the country experienced a
general inflation rate of 15-18% per year; however the prices of certain construction
materials such as cement, steel and timber increased by as much as 100-150%. Such cost
increases had not been anticipated when the original construction contr-acts were signed.
and the contractors could not continue to perform. Therefore, the contracts were
amended to provide price escalation clauses based upon the Provincial Bureau of
Statistics price information. Cost overruns were previously shared evenly between the
water company, the main contractor, and the sub-contractors. Later in project
implementation, all contracts of more than 8 to 12 months included such price escalation
clauses as standard practice despite city project office's reluctance to accept this
r easonable and standard practice of handling cost increases. (These cost increases were
subsequently able to be covered by IDA through a devaluation of the yuan in 1994).



5
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
17.   Use of TA. As discussed in paras 9, 11-12, the management of the three cities and
their water companies did not utilize the technical assistance and traininag provided for
under the project. LUCRPO did not provide the necessary guidance to the consultants
nor support the project's institutional objectives. Neither did the water companies show
the necessary commitment to these activities so that the Province might benefit from the
inistitutional development programs. The technical assistance and training program for
the transport component was curtailed before completion by the Shelnyang project office.
Procurement
1I8.   Procurement Docunmentation. Although not a major factor. some difficulties
arose in the borrowers' understanding of the contracting procedures required for both
national and international competitive bidding under IDA guidelines. There was also a
language problem in that the project personnel had difficulty in understanding IDA's
English-language documents. The differences between IDA's procedures and the
traditional Chinese contracting procedures were eventually resolved with the assistance of
foreign technical assistance and IDA supervision missions. Many of the bidding and
procurement difficulties experienced in this project have subsequentIv been overcome
with the use of standardized bidding documents, which were introduced later in project
implementatiorn.
19.   National Competitive Bidding. Of the 12 civil works contracts let under
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, no foreign contractors ever bid.
Apparently the ICB threshold of US$3 million for civil works was too low to attract
loreign bidders. (In the follow-on Liaoning Environment Project, the ICB ceiling was
r-aised to US$6 million.) Furthermore, all of the civil works contracts were awarded to
local contractors often of the city calling for bids. This would seem to indicate that calls
lor bids were not published at the national level, but only locally. In the future
advertising and bidding should be carried out in a less restricted manner in order to obtain
the best quality works, goods and services at least cost.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.   The project's sustainability is deemed likely. The project fulfilled a substantial
need in the three cities by supplying water in greater quantity and quality for both
domestic and commercial use. Adequate water supply will be crucial for the Province's
industrial development and for the overall health and well-being ol' its citizens,
particularly in the low-income areas where water pressure had been ullreliable. The water
companies have competent staff in the engineering areas to operate and maintain the
water supply systems.
21.   For the transport component in Shenyang, the improved corridors and flyovers are
being heavily used as demonstrated by the high rates of return. The traffic planning and



6
engineering activities are ongoing and will continue to be strengthened through a follow-
up project.
22.   Even though the project has been completed, the water companiies will need to
continue to make improvements in their financial and operational cost r eduction efforts so
that they can generate the necessary funds to adequately maintain and expand the systems
to meet the growing domestic and commercial needs of the Province. '['his makes it
imperative that the results of the Tariff Study be implemented so that thle water
companies do not have to depend on the municipal and provincial governments for
financial assistance to expand their systems. Training of the financial and management
staff needs to be further developed in each of water companies along witth additional
computer training.
E. DA'S PERFORMANCE
2 5.  IDA's performance during preparation and appraisal may be considered highly
satisfactory. The project focused on three cities instead of tackling the whole Province.
Its scope was rightly limited to water supply construction and road improvements, and
was sclective in the institutional building and policy reforms being souLght. In the one
year lag between appraisal and board, IDA reviewed procurement documents so that
coonstruction could get underway immediately after effectiveness. The appraisal team
correctly identified the risk of borrower commitment to institutional and policy reform.
24.   IDA supervision is rated satisfactory. Throughout the project cycle, the project
lihLd two task managers, and there was excellent continuity in the mission team members.
'ThfIe supervision missions emphasized the water supply component since it constituted
76% of the share of the total cost of the project. From the start of the project, supervision
missionis repeatedly emphasized the need to engage the consultants and advisors for the
x\ ater supply component as agreed in the project documents and to conduct the studies
planned for the project. IDA recognized the beneficial impact this TA could have and
included institutional and financial specialists on the missions regularly (table 13). Since
thlere were no Credit covenants on these studies and TA requirements, there was little that
task managers could do to enforce implementation of these activities. In the future,
pro ject design should link institutional developments with time-bound covenants and
action plans to ensure the full implementation of the institutional development program in
a timely manner.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
' 5.   Along with the IDA, the Borrower, LUCRPO, and the three cities spent
considerable effort in preparing this project and had a very close workilng relationship
throughout the entire project cycle. For project preparation, the Borrower's performance
may be rated highly satisfactory. The Liaoning Provincial Government established
LUCRPO, along with four municipal level project offices: water component offices in
each of the three cities and one transport component office in Shenyang. These offices



7
were adequately staffed at an early stage with engineers and other staff who had
insufficient construction and contract knowledge and experience.
26.   Before appraisal, the three cities prepared their respective components, from
feasibility studies through engineering design, with the assistance of local design
institutes assisted by foreign consultants funded by other bilateral assistance. Detailed
designs and tender documents were prepared by the same local and foreign consultants
and were readied for tendering during the additional year of preparation (owing to the
internal political difficulties in 1989) between appraisal and board. The Borrower's high
state of project preparation allowed construction to proceed with few difficulties upon
Credit effectiveness.
27.   The Borrower's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory for the
water and transport components. Despite the inflationary environment mentioned in para
16 above, the project was well executed. All the major construction activities planned at
appraisal were completed by the end of 1994, about one year ahead of schedule (see
disbursement schedule in Table 4). Resettlement was carried out efficiently as noted in
para 13. For the construction activities, each of the project offices attempted to operate in
an efficient and professional manner; however all of the offices would hlave benefited
from training in project organization and management including quality control. While a
Provincial Project Office was desirable for coordination purposes, the establishment of
city project offices outside the water companies does not seem appropriate because they
contributed little to project development and actually hindered implementation efficiency.
Foreign technical assistance for providing guidance to the project offices on construction
activities was too limited. During the later stages of the project, the foreign technical
assistance was limited to "trouble-shooting" for field difficulties and report-writing for
the city project offices.
28.   For the studies and the technical assistance the Borrower's performance was
deficient. LUCRPO did not provide the necessary guidance to the consultants nor
support the project's institutional objectives. None of the three water companies showed
the necessary commitment to the completion of these activities so that the Province might
benefit from the institutional development programs. This includes the full
implementation of the computerized billing systems, the leak detection program, both of
which were at a pilot phase at project completion, and the financial forecasting for
management which was not understood by the water companies. Also the
implementation of the transport technical assistance component was curtailed before
completion by the Borrower. LUCRPO did not show adequate leadership in these
technical assistance areas, nor did the cities and their water companies give these areas
their due regard. Provincial governments require fully experienced staff in both technical
and managerial areas and supervision to provide the leadership necessary to carry out
large scale investment projects and to effectively assist city project staff.
29.   Compliance with covenants was partial. The water companies only partially
complied with the covenant to carry out action plans for improved water metering,



8
leakage and staffing. The studies of tariffs and water pricing were poorly done; the
financial forecasts were submitted late and were of poor quality (see Table 10). Although
not specifically covenanted in the DCA, the training programs for both water supply and
transport came late in the project and fell short of project plans. Resettlement was carried
out in accordance with the agreed resettlement action plan.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   Project outcome is rated satisfactory. Construction activities took place in an
efficient and timely manner, with sufficient cost savings to allow substantial increases in
the laying of additional transmission and distribution lines. The Yingkou scheme was
completed in April 1994, and the Shenyang and Fuxin pipelines were completed in late
1994. The water supply construction components for the three cities have been tested,
and they meet their design requirements for both the quantity and quality of the water
provided. Due to LUCRPO's inability to provide the necessary data, no economic
analysis could be conducted on the water supply components.
31l . The transport component improved the flow of transportation in the city of
Slhenyang as anticipated during the project preparation. "Before-and-after" studies were
conducted on the traffic flows on the improved road corridors. It was found that the
traffic speeds improved by up to 13 km/hr giving a very significant FYRR of about 40%.
Other improvements, such as flyovers have greatly enhanced traffic flows giving a FYRR
of about 29%. At the time of appraisal the IRR was estimated to be 43%. Therefore it
can be concluded that the corridor improvements significantly contributed to meeting the
development objectives of the project. The institutional strengthening of the transport
planning and traffic engineering components was successful and contributed to the
preparation of a second project. The computerized road maintenance system was never
startecd due to a lack of commitment of the department.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.   During the operation of this project standard performance targets were established
for the three water companies. However, due to the variations in conditions of the three
different water companies, each company was encouraged to adopt their own set of
measures pertaining to their operational performance. In addition to actual water
production per time period, the main performance indicators suggested to the water
companies under this project were:
Domestic water supply metering (percent of total units being metered);
Unaccounted-for water (water produced/water billed x1 00); and
Annual staffing levels (staff per 1,000 connections).



9
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   The key lessons learned from this project are:
(a)   As benefits of institutional development are difficult for borrowers to
realize, project designs must link institutional developments to appropriate
incentives and action plans to ensure the full implementation of the
institutional development program early in the project (See paras 9 and
14);
(b)   Contracts of greater than one year must contain price escalation clauses.
Where such clauses have been deleted in the original standard bidding
documents, they may be applied expost de facto (See para 16);
(c)   The ICB contract ceiling of US$3.0 million for civil works contracts in
China is too low to attract foreign bidders. Also, NCB contracts must be
advertised at the national level and not just the local level to attract the
best quality at lowest cost (See para 19); and
(d)   Provincial governments require fully experienced staff in both technical
and managerial areas and supervision to provide the leadership necessary
to carry out large scale investment projects and to effectively assist city
project staff (See para 28).



10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of objectives  Substantial  Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                  /
Institutional development                            I/
Physical objectives         V
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectivesU'   ,
Environmental objectives                                             v
Public sector management               V
Private sector development                                            /
Other (specify)
1/ Resettlement
13.   Project sustainability          Likely      Unlikely           Uncertain
/
C.    Bank performance               Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                          /
Supervision                                    /
D.    Borrower performance           Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                                 V
Covenant compliance                                               /
Operation (if applicable)                      V
Highly                                Highly
E.    Assessment of outcome    Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
I/



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                      Year of          Status
Appr-oval
Liaoninu Environmental Project     1) Protect main water resources  FY95         Under implementation
(Ln. 3781-CHA)                     in Liaoning Province;
2) Strengthen pricing policy and
institutional management for
environmental protection, water
pollution control, wastewater,
and solid waste; and
3) Institute measures for air
pollution control and cultural
heritage asset management.
Liaoning UIrban Trransport Project  Improve the capability of the  FY99          Under preparation
3 project cities of Shenyang,
Anshan and Fushun and
Liaoning Province to assess
urban transport issues adequately
and to devise and implement
sustainable urban transport
policies.
Table 3 - Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned                   Date actual/latest estimate
Tdentification (EPS)                 February 1988                 July 18, 1988
lPreparation                          1988-1989                     1988-1989
Appraisal                            February 25, 1989              September 1989
[lost-Appraisal                                                    J.anuary 1991
Netotiations                         October 1989                   April 6, 1990
Board presentation                   August 24, 1989                March 21, 1991
Signing                              December 1989                  April 25, 1991
Effectiveness                        March 1990                     July 24, 1991
Project completion                   December 31, 1995
Credit closing                       June 30, 1996                  March 31, 1997



12
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Finanicial Year     Appraisal Estimate      Actual      Actual as % of Estimate
US$                US$
1992 /a                  14.8                26.6                180
1993                     37.3                49.6                133
1994                     55.2                65.8                119
1 '95                    68.5                67.5                 99
1996                     77.8                71.6                 92
'1997                                        73.4                 94
1998                                         75.9                 98
/a    Includes initial disbursement of $5.2 for Special Account.
The date of the final disbursement was July 25, 1997.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Borrower unable to supply data.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable



13
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                     Purpose as defined at appraisal           Status         Impact of study
Preparation of Second     Prepare project proposals concerning, wate Completed    Liaoning Environment
Stage Project             pollution problems in Hun-Toizi River                    Project (Ln. 378 1-CHA)
Basin
Water Resource            Produce a strategy to encourage the       Partiallk     None
Pricina                   efficient use of water resources in the   Completed
Hun-Taizi River Basin.
Water Tariff              Review existing bases of water charges    Partially     None
Study                     and to design basis for charges in each   Completed
municipal water company.
Engineering/Economic    To determine the impact of low-cost         Completecd   Used in evaluation for
Evaluation of Improved   traffic corridor improvments                             future investments.
T raffic Corridors
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)            Actuals
Item                         Local      Foreign  Total           Local      Foreign  Total
( otlponent
\k ;ItCr Sulpply
Shem anig                    17.2      26.1      42.3           12.7       31.7    44.4
Ilxin                        9.2       13.0      22.2            8.3        14.3    22.6
Yingkou                      4.9       10.2      15.1            5.0       1().X    15.8
I irhan I ransport
Shenvang                      5.3       8.0      13.3            4.8        1().5    15.3
I ecih. Assistance
anid Training                 0.3       4.7       5.0                        5.1      5.1
l.and Acquisition              4.8        0.0       4.8            4.8        0.11     4.8
Base Cost (1990)              41.7       62.0    103.7            35.6       72.4    108.0
Phy sical Contingency          4.2        6.2      10.4
,-riccConitingency             5.1        7.0     12.1
Inmercst During Construction   2.4        0.0      2.4
I otal Cost                   51.0      75.2    128.6



14
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                   Appraisal Estimate             Actual
(US million)
IDA                            77.8                      75.9
Liaoning Govt.                  1.1                      31.0
Slhenyang Govt.                30.3                       (.9
Fuxin Govt.                    12.8                       0.2
Yingkou Govt.                   6.6
Total                   128.6                     108.0
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Borrower unable to provide data (see para 3(0)
A. Direct Benefits
B. Economic Impact



15
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan                                         Original          Revised
Agreement       CoN la it                      Fulfillmnliii    F` lullfinent                   lDescri ption
Agrceemelt      Section           l wpe         Status           D)ate            l)atc                          oi Covennt                        Comin men ts
acCoulntillL/
Project       4.01(b)          auditing       C                06/30/1993            NA         LUCRPO to fLirisih IDA not laterthani 6 monithis after  Provincial Audit Bureau provided timely audits of
Agreement                                                                                      the end of each year. anniual financial statemenlts and  project and special account but was unable to
auditor's report of tle operations. resources and   provide appropiate audit of water companies.
expenditures in respect of the project and special
account.
Sch. 1, Sec II   implementa-    CP                  NA               1991        Liaoning to employ consultants whose qualifications and   Project implementation consultants were
tion                                                             terms and conditionis satisfactory to IDA.          employed: Water company advisors wvere never
employed. Transport consultant assignient
curtailed.
Sch 2. Part A,   implemenita-    C                  NA               1991        Maintain project offices, staffed by competent staff with
Clause I       tion                                                              finctions and responisibilities satisfactory to the IDA.
Sch. 2, Part A,  institution   CP                   NA                NA         LUCRPO to implement training program in accordance    Water companies training plans submitted.
Clause 2       buildinig                                                         with the schedule agreed witi IDA.                  Project Unit training needs too often minmized or
ignored by LUCRPO.
Sch. 2, Part A,  involuntary   C                    NA                NA         To carry out resettlement plan satisfactory to IDA.  Carried out satisfactority in early part of project.
Clause 3       resettlement
Sel. 2, Part A,  implementa-    C                  NA               1997       Tro undertake a stidy on water resouce and water pricing.  Studies started late and proceeded slowly.
Cluase 4        tion                                                             discuss findings with IDA, and implenient
reconimendatiolns.
Sch. 2, Part B,  implementa-    C                   NA                NA         Water companies to carry out action plan to improve  Consult assisted the companies in analyzing
Clause 3       tion                                                              water metering system leakage. aind staffing levels.  issues. but no follow-up carried out. LUCRPO
and lEP unable to press matter with companies.
Schl. 2. Part B.   accounlinLi  C(               0(/30/1993                      Water comrllanica it Itiiisli to lID\ auditedltlfnanci al
C(lause 4 (c)   auditiln                                                        Iepops not later hli.11 6 iita1thIs after tIh endl odl  achc liscal
year.
Sch. 2, Part B,  implementa-    C                   NA               1993        Water companiies to make adequate arrangellleilts to
Clause 5        tion                                                            insure their assets. satisfactoiy to IDA.
General        Section       ImionitoriIng/   NC                   NA              3/31/97      Borrower will provide IDA witll Project Comipletion
Conditionis   9.07(c)         evaluationi                                                       Report 6 montlhs after close of Project
C=Cormplied
CP=Complied partially
NC=Not complied with



16
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance witlh 13aiik OMSs.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                       Weeks                 ($'000)
iThrough appraisal                            83.0                 232.5
Appraisal-Board                               61.6                  186.5
Supervision                                   65.1                  197.9
(Completion                                    7.0                  27.5
Total                                  216.7                 644.4



17
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
1'erformance rating
Specialized
staff skills   Imple-    Devel
Stage of project cycle  Month/      No. of      Days        represented  rnentaltion  opment    Type oi
year        persons    in field    /a            status     objectives  problem
Through appraisal
Appraisal through       Sept. 1989
Board approval         Mar. 1991   4           21          E. F, l-C, IN
Board approval          Mar. 1991
througih effectiveness    July 1991                                                         0
Supervision             July 1991
Mar. 1997
Nov. 1991  4            10          E, E, F. IN    I         I
June 1992   2           12         E. E,         I           I
Nov. 1992  2           8           E, IN         I           I
May 1993   3            11         E, IN. 1-     I           I
Dec 1993   3           7           E. IN. F      I           I
June 1994   4          7           E. F, IN. F    HS        HS
Mar. 1996  3           4           E. F, F       HS         S           TA & Studies
(ompletion              Mar. 1997
Dec. 1997
May 1997   1           2           EC
'!i     EC: Economist
F:  Financial Analyst
ME: Municipal Engineer
E:  Sanitary Engineer
IN: Institutional Specialist



18
The World Bank                                    1818 H Street N.W.           (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             U.S.A.                       Cable Address: INDEVAS
June 9, 1997
Mr. Zeng Juequn, Director
Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO)
No 282, Danan Shenhe
Shenyang 119915, Liaoning
Peoples Republic of China
Fax: 85-24-481-2392
Dear Mr. Zeng:
Re: CHINVA: Liaoninz Urban Infrastrzcture Project. Cr 2219-CH.l
Implementation Completion Report Mlfission-A pril/Mlzfav 1997
This letter is to convey our thanks for the hospitality given to Mr. Miller on his recent
mission to Liaoning Province and to confirm the relevant areas discussed with him during the
mission.
The mission was pleased to find that the contract with Mfr. Nickum had been signed and
the work on the Water Tariff Resources Study is proceeding. We would urge you to complete
this study in a timely manner. This would enable payments to be completed by the end of July,
which is the last date for withdrawals from the credit account. The Bank considers this study an
important contribution future management of water resources in the Province.
It is also encouraging to see that the Water Leak Detection Programs are proceeding in
the three cities and are to be used as a basis for planning a maintenance and rehabilitation
program and that the cities are utilizing computer billing systems started under the project.
Training and use of financial forecasting are important aspects of good management practice.
We encourage all cities to continue and expand both of these programs. We are particularly
disappointed by the lack of active development and reporting of commercial systems by these
water utilities.
As was discussed, the Credit Agreement provides that the Borrower provide the Bank
with an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Project. This report is due three
months after the close of the project on March 31, 1997; thus making the report due to the Bank
on or before June 30, 1997. The report prepared by LUCRPO, may certainly be used in the
preparation of the final report; however it will need to be expanded in certain areas. Attached is
a report outline, prepared by the mission in lieu of the Aide Memoire, after discussing the format
with you. The report should be kept to about 15 pages; however supporting materials may be
placed in annexes that are not included in this 15 page limit. This outline along with the Bank's
Operational Manual provided to you in both English and Chinese, should be used as the main
areas of interest to be included in your ICR. Should you have any questions in preparing this
report or if you would want us to review a draft copy of the report before its final submission to
the Bank, we would be pleased to do so.



19
Mr. Zeng Juequn                          -2-                             June 9, 1997
Because of their interest in these matters, a copy of this letter is being sent to Mr. Zhu
Xian of Ministiy of Finance; Mr. Zhang Xiaoqiang of the State Planning Commission; Mr.
Zhang Yaoru of the MvIinistry of Construction; the Director of the Liaoning Finance Department;
Mr. Chi Ruovan of the Shenyang Urban Commission; and Mr. Pieter Bottelier of Resident
Mission in Beijing.
Sincerely Yours,
ne Loos
Chief
Environmental and Mu i cal Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



20
CHItNA
Aide Memoire for the Completion Mission of the
Liaoning Urban Infrastructuire Proiect -Cr 221 9-CHA
Closins Date'3)1 March 1997
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is due 30 June, 1997 (namely three months
after the closing date of 31 March, 1997). For its content, also see Bank publication BP 13.55-
Annex A, Section E. Evaluation Summarv.
I.   Proiect Successes and Problems
A. Achievements of Project Objectives (See Annex 6 ) and page 13
I) Construction Program
2) Institutional
3) Financial -Management, Billing, Tariffs setting
4) Management
5,  Pricing to achieve efficient use of water.
6) Water Tariff Study
7)  Water Conservation Leakage Detection: Pilot Areas
8) Urban Transport Targets and Works.
B.    Implementation Experiences
I) Engineering Design and/Quality testing
2) Soil Analysis and Transport Surveys.
3) Bill of Quantities vs. Quantity Measurements
4) Weather, floods, etc. effect on Construction Program
5) Performance of Desig,n and Constrlction Consultants
6) Bank missions and responses
7) Performance of LUCRPO and City Project Offices
8) Resettlement of homes and businesses
9) Comments of credit convents and agreements
II. Experiences and Lessons Learned in Carrying out the Project.
Ill. Operational Plans and Performance Indicators for the project implementation and operations.
A. Water Production
B. Management and Financial Plans for the Future
IV.    Sample Figures to Include
Annex 2-Water Demands- 1991-2005 actual/projected)
Annex 10: Estimates vs. Actual component costs
Annex 15, Page 4 of 4, Training Carried out under the project
Annex 18 - Operation Performance Monitors for the next 5-10 years
Annex 22 Key Financial Indicators 1990-2005 (Projected vs. Actual during 1990-1996
and projected to 2005)



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21960R
C H I N A\
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Fj  Pro1eod Cities
Railroad                                                                                                                                                                           JILIN
River-C
Prefecture Boundaries                                                                                                       S,                              f-       I
_ _ Province Boundaries                                                                                                                                 C.n. i..... .
5,0          00N 10                                                                                     Rs-
_~~~~~~~~    FEEAIOntJerlnarOn tiMonal' Boundariesvg Fal,uf                                                                                                         N oaI_yuan         <                /DMCRTCPOL So hu
( NF AEongol   >  Jllm / Y   40         /                                                   v0;t t'(
r----  ,.   LlaomnGryrie4s ~ ~   ~      ~     ~    ~    4-,-,                                                                                      fn     Dngou- p 
I L      100           150      N                                 I  /u                                                         /                                      O.nETuRn
' Gansu iSh i Henon ' Jengou I  i                                                                                                 i gchhewd EPI  A                 A
t   Slehuon   ,   _   -  ' Zhellong                                                                   /      z                                                                                                              |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jh-pi
./  tEEgEIES                                                                    shu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bip hie f2O                                                                                    bound--O   Fusnu  oinb,n
RUSSIAN                                                                                                                               F..,,h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iiu-rNAN 
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~4                                                                                         'Oil,           /                                -oeo          HuonreE                      7               I
M   N G  L I A                                                                                                                                                                     D- - -  V  Iaa  Ye              ! REPUuLICRCIIKOREA
MO GOIA         d.--                                                                                                                                   IY                     DLnOnW SEA'RPBIC O                               O E
V-----  IiuunmnnY05'5                                                 1'                                             Doroaou -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MR I1W



