DoCurnenl of
The World Bank
f(OR OFFW('IAL [SE ONlY
1 /  /   2   '  /   /  // //        Report No. 8250-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
FEBRUARY 27, 1991
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
Thk document has a restricted distribution and mas be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma% not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(URRENCY EQUIVALIENTI'S
(as of January 1991)
Currency Name  -    Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit        Yuan (Y)  =      100 F(en
Yl ()      =    $0.19
$1.0(           Y5.22
IhTi(. I rrS ANI) NIEASURES
I meter (m)          =    3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)     =    0.62 miles
I cubic meter (m3)   =    35.3 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
AltBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC       Average Incremental Cost          LUCRPO    Liaoning Urban Construction
AIDAB    Australian International                       and Renewal Project Office
Development Assistance Bureau
CBD       Central Business District         MOC         Ministry of Construction
CMC       China Machinery Corporation       MOCOM    Ministry of Communications
ERR       Economic Rate of Return           MOF         Ministry of Finance
FIRR      Financial Internal Rate of        MPS         Ministry of Public Security
Return                           MURCC    Municipal Urban and Rural
FMG       Fuxin Municipal Government                    Construction Commission
FWSC      Fuxin Water Supply Company        MURCEP   Ministry of Urban and Rural
FYRR      First Year Rate of Return                     Construction and Environmental
GOC       Government of the People's                    Protection
Republic of China                NEPA        National Environmental
IDA       International Development                     Protection Agency
Association                      PCBC        People's Construction Bank of
ICB       International Competitive Bidding             China
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding         SAA         State Audit Administration
LCC       Liaoning Construction             SMG         Shenyang Municipal Government
Commission                       SOE         Statement of Expenditures
Ipcd      Liters Per Capita Day             SPC         State Planning Commission
LDOC      Liaoning Department of            SWSC        Shenyang Water Supply
Communications                               Company
LDPS      Liaoning Department of Public     SYMEETC  Shenyang Machinery and Electric
Safety                                       Equipment Trading Corporation
LEPB      Liaoning Environmental            TCC         Technical Cooperation Credit
Protection Bureau                TOR         Terms of Reference
LPAB      Liaoning Provincial Audit Bureau    UNDP      United Nations Development
LPG       Liaoning Provincial Government                Program
LDPH      Liaoning Department of Public     VOC         Vehicle operating cost
Health                           YMG         Yingkou Municipal Government
YWSC        Yingkou Water Supply Company



FOR 0 iCIAL USE ONLY
CIIINA
L.IAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page  No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ................................... .                         v
1.  TtlE UKBAN.  WATER SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT SECTORS  ....                 ..........      1
Urbanization in China  ......................................                         1
Water Supply  ...............................................                         2
Urban Transport  ............................................                         3
Sector Organization  ....................                 ...................         3
Sectoral Issues  ...........................................                          4
Previous Operations and Sector Work  ........................                         5
Bank Group's Role and Sector Lending Strategy  ....                  ..........       6
II.  PROJECT BACKGROUND  ..... ..................................                         7
Project Background  .........................................                         7
The Project Area  ...........................................                         7
Existing Water Supply and Environment Situation  ....                  ........       8
Status of Existing Urban Transport  .........................                         9
III. DEMAND FOR URBAN WATER AND TRANSPORT SERVICES  ....                  ........       10
Population Growth  ..........................................                        10
Water Demand  ...............................................                        10
Urban Transport Needs in Shenyang  ..........................                        13
Road Maintenance Needs  .....................................                        13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
China in September 1989 and a post-appraisal mission which visited China in
January 1991. Project team members included Mr. John W. Huang (Task Manager
and  Sanitary   Engineer),   Mr.   Leon  Miller   (Economist),   Mrs.   Ivy  Cheng
(Financial Analyst) and Mr. Zhang Zhun (Consultant). The Peer Reviewers were
Mr. Arthur Bruestle (Environmental Engineer, ASTEN), Mr. Peter Midgley (Urban
Transport Planner/Engineer, ASTIN), Mr. Songsu Choi (Urban Planner/Economist,
ASTIN) and Mr. Norihiro Noda (Sanitary Engineer, AS3EH). The Division Chief
is Mr.  Zafer  Ecevit  (AS3EH).   The Department Director  is Mr.  Shahid Javed
Burki (AS3DR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
l iheir official duties Its Lontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii. -
P.age No,
IV.   THE   PROPOSED   PROJECT   ......................................                                                                      13
Project Objectives ..........................                                                                                         13
Rationale   for   Association   Involvement    ...................                                                I.     ,            14
Project   Description   ........................................                                                                      14
Project Cost Estimates .....                                         ................. I                                              16
Project   Financing   ..........................................                                                                      17
Status   of   Engineering    ......................................                                                                   18
Consultant   Services    ........................................                                                                     19
Staff   Training   and   Development    .............................                                                                 19
Project   Management    .........................................                                                                     20
Procurement    ................................................                                                                       20
Disbursement   ...............................................                                                                        22
Land   Acquisition   and   Resettlement    ..........................                                                                 23
Monitoring   Criteria   ........................................                                                                      23
V.    THE   BENEFICIARIES    ..........................................                                                                      23
Provincial   and   Municipal   Institutions    ......................                                                                 23
The Water  Supply  Companies  ....    ............................                                                                    24
Water   Billing   and   Collection   ...............................                                                                  25
Water   Company   Accounting    ...................................                                                                   26
Water   Company   Management   ...................................                                                                    27
Shenyang  Urban Transport  Organization  ......................                                                                       28
The   Public   Transport   Companies    .............................                                                                 28
Project   Accounting   .........................................                                                                      29
Audits    .......                                                                                                                      29
Insurance    ..................................................                                                                       29
VI.   FINANCE   ...................................................                                                                          30
Financial   System   ...........................................                                                                      30
Past and Present Financial Position of Water Supply Companies                                                                         30
Water   Tariffs    ..............................................                                                                     33
Future   Finances   of  Water   Companies    .........................                                                                33
Financing   Plan   of   Water   Companies   ..........................                                                                35
Public   Transport   Charges    ...................................                                                                   37
Municipal   Finances    .........................................                                                                     37
VII. ECONOMIC.  SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS  ........                                                                             37
Project   Justification   ......................................                                                                      37
Least-Cost Considerations .........................                                                                                   38
Project   Benefits    ...........................................                                                                     38
Affordability   ..............................................                                                                        40
Environmmental   Impact   .....  I                                    ................................                                40
Project   Risks    ..............................................                                                                     41



- iii -
Page No,
VIII. AGREEMENTS REAC1HED AND RECOMMENDATION ....         ...............   41
TAB.LE S
Table 3.1   Population Projection .10
Table 3.2   Water Demand Projections .11
Table 4.1   Project Cost Estimates .17
Table 4.2   Tentative Financing Plan .17
Table 4.3   Procurement Arrangements .21
Table 5.1   Distribution of Sales .25
Table 5.2      Metering & Frequency of Billing .26
Table 6.1      Key Financial Indicators 1986 - 1990 .31
Table 6.2  Current Water Tariffs .33
Table 6.3      Water Companies' Financial Performance ..........            34
Table 6.4       Financial Plan (1990 - 1995) .36
ANNEXES
Annex 1.        Particulars of Shenyang, Yingkou and
Fuxin Municipalities .43
Annex 2.    Water Demand Projections .46
Annex 3.       Water Resource and Water Supply Pricing Study
- Draft Terms of Reference .49
Annex 4.        Shenyang: Urban Transport Project Corridors
Selected for Improvement .53
Annex 5.    Shenyang Vehicle Inventory .54
Annex 6.   Project Components .55
Annex 7.   Project Cost Estimate .57
Annex 8.        Estimate of Consultant Requirement .65
Annex 9.        Project Management Organization .66
Annex 10.       Contract Packaging .......................   ....           67
Annex 11.   Disbursement Schedule .68
Annex 12.  Resettlement Plan .69
Annex 13.       Project Implementation Schedule .71
Annex 14.       Preparation of Second Stage Project
- Darft Terms of Reference .72
Annex 15.  Training Program .76
Annex 16.       Provincial and Municipal Government Organization            80
Annex 17.       Organization of Water Supply Companies .84
Annex 18.       Operation Performance Monitors .87
Annex 19.       Technical and Financial Advisors for Water Supply
Companies - Draft Terms of Reference .88
Annex 20.       Shenyang: Road Inventory and Condition ..........           90
Annex 21.       Operating Statistics - Shenyang Bus Company
and Shenyang Trolley-Bus Company ....        ............   91



- iv -
Annex 22.      Summary of Key Firnancial Indicators (1989-1996)          93
Annex 23.      Assumptions to Financial Projections .94
Annex 24.      Calculation of Self-financing Ratios (1989-1996)          98
Annex 25       Shenyang Bus Company and Trolley-Bus Company
Summary of Financial Results 1982-1988 .99
Annex 26.      Municipal Finances ..................10........          l()
Annex 27.      Cornputation of IRR ......      ........................  101
Annex 28.      Average Incremental Cost .....       ...................  105
Annex 29.      Urban Transport Component
Economic Analysis: Basic Assumptions and Data ...        108
Annex 30.      Selected Documents and Data available
in Project File .110
MAPS
IBRD No. 21960        CHINA: Liaoning Province
IBRD No. 21964        Shenyang Water Supply Component
IBRD No. 21961        Fuxin Water Supply Component
IBRD No. 21963        Yingkou Water Supply Component
IBRD No. 21962        Shenyang Urban Transport Component



- v -
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          People's Republic of Chinra.
Bencficiaries:    Liaoning Province and the Municipalitie-. of Shenyarig, Fuxin
and Yingkou.
Credit Amount:    SDR 54.2 million (US$77.8 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Onlending          From the Government of China to Liaoning Province for 15
Terms:             years, including five years of grace, at a fixed interest
rate of 5.5 percent per annum; from Liaoning Province to the
Municipalities on the same terms. Foreign exchange risks
will be borne by the Municipalities.
From the Municipalities to the Water Supply Companies: 15
years, including 5 years of grace, at the variable interest
rate payable on medium/long-term Renminbi loans by the
People's Construction Bank of China.
Project            The project has the broad objectives of improving the
Description:       utilization and management of water resources and urban
transport services in Liaoning Province, an important
industrial base in China. The project would assist in the
initial phase of an investment program aimed at addressing
the shortages and poor quality of water supply in the cities
of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou, and shortcomings in urban
transport in Shenyang. The specific objectives of the
project are: (a) to improve water supply conditions in the
three project cities through physical works and
strengthening of institutions, regulations, management,
financial and pricing policies; (b) to improve traffic and
public transport conditions in Shenyang through a pilot
program of selected low-cost physical work,s and
institutional strengthening; and (c) to improve measures for
water pollution abatement through technical assistance in
wastewater treatment, and strengthening of institutions and
enforcement measures for water pollution control.
The water supplv component in Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou
would develop physical works, including transmission and
distribution pipelines, water intake works, pumping
stations, and water treatment works, as well as provide
training and technical assistance for the local water
companies, the Liaoning Construction Commission, the Urban



- vi -
companies, the Liaoning Construction Commission, the Urban
and Rural Construction Commissions of the three
municipalities and the Liaoning Water Resource Commission.
The component would include, iter alia, a study of water
resource and water supply pricing. A water pollution
control component would provide technical assistance for a
study of industrial wastewater treatment arnd environmental
regulations. In addition, equipment would he acquired for
environmental monitoring. The urban transport component,
which would be concentrated in Shenyang, would impro';e about
+4 km of arterial road corridors, and provide equipment,
technical assistance and training to support management of
public transport operations, in particular, road and public
vehicle maintenance, road safety measures and operations
management. To facilitate project planning and management,
training would be provided to staff of the project offices,
the Liaoning Construction Commission and the water supply
and public transport companies. Technical assistance would
be included in the project to assist the Provincial
Government in planning and design of a second phase of the
investment program, which would focus on water pollution
abatement.
Benefits:          The improved water supply would provide much needed drinking
water to the population, as well as inputs for industrial
development in the three cities. Benefits from the water
components would also come from improved health conditions
of the city residents, particularly those residing in lower
income areas, through better water availability and reduced
ingress of contaminated groundwater into the water mains.
The urban transport component would relieve traffic
congestion in central city areas of Slienyang. Benefits
would accrue from personal savings associated with shorter
travel times, savings in vehicle operating costs and
reduction in traffic accidents. Other important benefits of
this project include improvements in project planning and
management, and introduction of better financial discipline
for the water supply companies.
Risks:             Possible project risks include insufficient commitment of
the Liaoning Government and the three Municipal Governments
to pursue the significant pricing policy reforms and
institutional changes required, to provide the necessary
counterpart funds for implementing the project, and to raise
the necessary funds to fully implement the proposed
development program. The project has built-in measures to
minimize these risks. These include technical assistance to
study tariffs and tariff structures required to meet
economic and financial objectives, assurance from Liaoning
Government for the timely provision of counterpart funds,
and the building up of an effective planning institution to
follow up on the implementation of the development program.



- vii -
Est imnited Costs                    Local    Foreign       Total
-   -- (US$ million) -----
Water Supply
Shtenyang                     17.2       26.1        43.3
Fuxin                          9.2        13.0       22.2
Yingkou                        4.9        10.2        15.1
Urban Traasport
Shenyang                       5.3         8.0       13.3
Tech. Assistance
and Training                   0.3         4.7         5.0
Land Acquisition                 4.8         0.0         4.8
Base Cost (1990)                41.7        62 0      103.7
Physical Contingency             4.2         6.2       10.4
Price Contingency                5.1         7.0        12.1
Total Project Cost a/        51.0        75.2      126.2
Interest during Construction   0.0           2.4         2.4
Total Financing Reauired        51.0        77.6       128.6
Financing Plan                       Local    Foreign       Total
($ million) ------
Liaoning Prov. Govt.            48.4         2.4        50.8
and municipal Govts.
Proposed IDA credit              2.6        75.2        77.8
Total                     51.0        77.6       128.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY               1992       1993      1994       1995       1996
--------------- ($ million) ----------------
Annual                  14.8       22.5       17.9       13.3        9.3
Cumulative              14.8       37.3       55.2       68.5       77.8
Economic Rate        Water Supply    -   4 percent for Shenyang, 8 percent for
of Return:                                 Fuxin and 5 percent for Yingkou.
Water charges reflect average
incremental costs.
Urban Transport -   43 percent for corridor improvement.
a/   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



CHiiNA
LIAONINC URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
I. THE URBAN. WATER SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT SECTORS
Utb;it-tization in China
1.1       During the 1960s and 1970s, China's cities grew moderately, in
terms of population, economic activity, incomes, urban infrastructure, housiing
stock and services. Since 1979, however, the urban sector has experienced a
dynamism unprecedented since 1950. With the re-introduction of household
tarms, the liberalization of agricultural pricing, and the spread of
igricultural markets free from government price ceilings, China entered a
period of rapid economic growth and rising incomes. In the cities,
administrative restrictions on tile expansion of light industries and service
activities were lifted, while the growth of household incomes fueled an
untprecedented surge in demand for urban goods and services.
1.2       As a result of this expansion, urban managers are being confronted
with a growing demand for urban public services and its associated
infrastructure, from both enterprises and households. No longer is there any
doubt that a strong link exists be.ween the development of the local economic
base and the expansion of the area's infrastructure. The legitimacy of
household demand for improved public services and better housing is also
accepted. Population growth rates have begun to approach levels not
experienced since the 1950s, as the demand for labor encourages a relaxation
of migration controls. Cities that had stagnated for two decades now find
themselves with built-up areal populations expanding at a rate of 4 percent
to 5 percent per year. This phenomenon has helped prompt the central
government to reconsider its approach to planning, financing, and managing
urban development. Recent statistics are, however, showing a decline in the
urban built-up population growth rate in large cities, which is expected to
stabilize to around 1 percent by the year 2000.
1.3       The central government's modernization-through-reform movement has
included new features such as an increased emphasis on foreign trade, greater
itnvolvement by foreign investors, directives for state-owned economic
enterprises to concentrate on profit-maximizing behavior, the renewal of
private economic activity, and the liberalization of labor markets. As a
result, local governments and their public utility companies have begun to
accept the fact that, increasingly, cities must compete with one another to
attract new economic activity and encourage existing enterprises to expand as
efficiently as possible. The challenge facing China's cities is how best to
match the requirements created by rapid and sustained economic growth with a
program of urban development investments and accompanying management, fiscal
and policy measures. The central government is now limiting itself largely to
encouraging the process of restructuring urban development by setting broad
objectives and parameters.
This is the area of densest development, which is provided with a full
complement of urban services.



':It   Itji    I y
China h<a; an average potential water reserve of about 2,800 billion
p,i vt';r, or an annual per capita average water reserve of about 2,400 in3
i14 thB 1a jor u';er ot water inl China is agriculture, water needs itl urbani
alre rapidly' rising.  By the end of 1988 about 34 million m3 per day of
I   Lter were used by roughly 170 milliont urban dwellers (about 84 percent
(ft t II I rban populat ioll covered by piped supply), and another 64 million in3
per daty for industries in tthe cities, giving a total of 98 million m3 per day
Or alboLlt f36 billion ml per year. Tentative projections by the cities show
watc1 nteeds to grow to 85 billion m3 per year by the year 2000.  Industries
u;e over 60 percent of the city water supply, with little attention given to
onservaLtionl of water.2 Serious water shortages are found in many cities.
iow,-ver, inost cities lack the financial resources for the relatively large
investments required for water source development, and expansion of water
treatment and distribution facilities to meet additional water needs. Faced
with this reality, many cities are now moving toward stringent demand
management measures.
1.5       Associated with water supply is the related problem of water
pollution. Industries are without dispute the worst polluters. Most
factories are not equipped for pollution control, and effluents containing
high concentrations of toxic matter, heavy metals and organic materials are
discharged into the environment with little or no treatment. While water
pollution control regulations exist, most polluting industries have thus far
been delinquent on the implementation of pollution abatement measures on the
grounds of technical and financial difficulties. There is, however, rapidly
growing awareness about environmental degradation and its serious impact on
living conditions, in particular the effect of pollution on the quality of
water resources needed for the country's economic development. Already many
cities are tightening enforcement of industrial effluent standards. The law
for a country-wide pollution permit system has been passed requiring
registration of enterprises that pollute. These permits may be revoked if
effective pollution abatement measures are not taken. Implementation of these
measures is expected to be gradual, given the time needed for industries to
plan and carry out the large investments required.
1.6       Urban wastewater in China is normally collected through separate
sanitary sewers or combined sewers (the latter carrying both wastewater and
rainwater). Sewage treatment facilities are absent or grossly inadequate in
most cities. While sewerage charges are allowed by the Central Authorities,
as yet not many cities have adopted these principles, and those that charge
have not been doing it in the most efficient way. While the city water supply
is usually run on a utility basis in China, most cities have municipal
departments that operate the sewerage system on the city budget. That a
utility form of organization for sewerage can bring about better management is
being accepted in China, and many cities are already exploring suitable
organizational changes .3
2    Chinese industries consume about 3 to 10 times the water for similar
industries in many industrialized countries.
3    The Shanghai Sewerage Company established with the assistance of the
World Bank under the Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 1779-CHA and
Loan 2794-CHA) Is the first sewerage utility in China.



. 3 -
1./       Water resource allocation and management, and water polltitot i
ont t ( I manlagement responsibilities are not clearly defined, arc divided,
di f1 n tnt agetic ies arid the measures are often inappropriate.  I isst it ti in()nI
st rerigt -lini rig and rest ructuring with better finlancial planningi arid ma ia.r(S .(r la ,t
tigItetr reguIations to support managemenit, and inore intensive staff trai ti iI
are ukrgently needed.
Urban Transport
1.8       Urbar. transport problems in all major Chinese cities are sev      ,!
worseninlg.  In the larger cities, transit times are excessive througholt( ti,.
day on most main corridors leading to the central business diEtrict (CI3D) a,,d
to large industrial areas. These problems stem from: (a) inadequate road
space -- roads occupy about 7 percent of the total urban area of cities in
China, compared to 20-25 percent in developed countries; (b) poor utilizati(I:
of the road space due to the intermixing of motorized and non-motorized
vehicles; (c) poor road discipline and safety enforcement; and (d) severe
underinvestment in the public transport systems.
1.9       In urban China, the number of persons per motorized vehicle 1an?ge,-
from 30-85 persons per vehicle, which is very lcw. On the other hand, the
number of persons per bicycle ranges from 1.2 to 2.1. With virtually rio
increase in bus fares for about twenty years and difficulties in obtaining
municipal funds, investment in the bus and trolley systems has been low.
Large numbers of public transport vehicles, which have long passed their
useful life and are prone to frequent mechanical breakdowns, are still on the
roads. In Shenyang, as in many other cities, the situation has deteriorated
to such a point, that it is faster to ride a bicycle (travelling at an average
speea of 10.9 km/hr) in the CBD and other congested areas than to use public
transport (7.2 km/hr). The number of private cars in China is very low --
about 170 to 320 persons per vehicle, and the number of motorcycles has been
restricted in most cities.
1.10      The immediate need is to address the current conflict in use of
road space between motorized and non-motorized vehicles. This is proposed to
be achieved by (a) increasing the availability of road space through road
widening, providing vehicle separation barriers, resurfacing and redesign of
road intersections; (b) increasing efficiency of road use through better
traffic regulation, enforcement and management; and (c) improving the
operation and availability of public transport.
Sector Organization
1.11      The Ministry of Water Conservancy is the central organization
responsible for determining policies on the allocation and management of
surface water resources in the country. The implementation of these policies
is carried out through river basin commissions, provincial water conservancy
departments and water conservancy bureaus at various local government levels.
Allocation and management of groundwater is, however, the responsibility of
the Ministry of Geology and Minerals and the corresponding local government
departments and bureaus. The National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA),
separated in 1988 from the Ministry of Urban and Rural Construction and
Environmental Protection (MURCEP), is responsible for setting environmental
policies and providing guidance to the provinces on environmental matters.
1.12      The Ministry of Communications (MOCOM) is responsible for national
transport policies and investment strategies (inter-modal and inter-regional).



- 4 -
En forcemenit of trat tic and road safety laws and reg,ul at ior; i !, tI it
responsibi I itv of t he Ministry of Putblic Security (MPS), which i !; itil!,
rk-S'poI0Sishie for inr e mal secur it y. Thlc- Ministry of Construct ion (Mi()W ) i'. the
central agellCy reksJpns i )ble tor urban/reg ionaal anid infri astretrictie dtvet l(lpirlet
planning at the natiorral level.  It also provides guidance to the provill nets
and the1  three centtrailly controlied municipalities; otn matters conimig
lardd-use and intfras tructure developmenit plans, and recommo(idat ion,; o
technica1 standards and criteoria.
1.13      Each province and cenitrally-controlled municipality is responsiblhe
for urban infrastructure works in its cities and towns and for (ntivirotimelittal
protection under its jurisdiction, executed through various proVin(iatl
commissions and departments. Overseeing urban matters are tihe provincial
commissions of planning and construction, and the department of finance, wlich
approve urban plans and major projects for cities and towns.  The actual work
of planning and design of projects is carried out by municipal bureaus arid,
for large projects, provincial guidance and assistance would be sought. In
the past construction work was normally carried out by construction units
within the host municipal bureaus. Increasingly it is being contracted out
through a competitive bidding process to construction enterprises, most of
which have been reorganized from the original construction units, that now
compete for work outside of their own complex. All large urban projects are
reported to MOC. Large projects (exceeding Y 200 million) require approval by
the State Planning Commission (SPC). Those involving foreign loans require
approval by both the SPC and the State Council.
Sectoral Issues
1.14      For at least two decades prior to the 1980s, China had concentrated
on industrialization in urban areas, but had left urban services seriously
neglected. Although in the past decade China's cities and towns have invested
considerable resources to improve urban infrastructure, the urban sector will
need to continue large scale investments for the foreseeable future in order
to sustain economic growth and environmental quality. Careful investment
planning with prudent selection of investment priorities are therefore
critical issues. Increasingly urban investments would need to he funded from
local resources, and, therefore, upgrading of local government financing is
another area of concern.
1.15      While there is recognition at the various levels of government of
excessive water use by industry, measures to convert manufacturing processes
to conserve water are often costly. Unless industries are given appropriate
incentives, excessive water use cannot be abated. To address the situation,
Chinese cities are currently setting water use quotas for various industries
with heavy financial penalties for exceeding the quotas. This, in effect, is
a form of two tier charging system. The rules for quota levels are, however,
arbitrarily defined, and the penalties charged do not reflect resource cost.
Formalization of a policy to tie these charges with the marg.nal cost of water
production and distribution will be needed, in order to ensure that water is
used economically. Realistic consumption levels on this basis could then be
obtained to provide a more reasonable base for cities to plan their water
supplies.
4    Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin.



. 5 -
I I (f    itn Iost c it i e, minunici  pal water supply Is organtized as a pub I ic
Int ,1 pl,ise(, althbouph if manry restrictions exist whlichi impede its operation Ia!n a
II it u1bi IC ut iiitv.  Water stipplv companies do not yet have full financial
lilt (I ,o,,  ilI IOf g t o   nn planlnliig, Securing funding for  capital   t ment ,
1.clthiqn water ratt,s  tr-eatmenlt of surplus earnings and meetinig operational
do l i ( i ts. To impriove performance in the urban water supply subsector, Lthere
neet±,,  to be delegation of greater autonomy to the water supply companies,
tog,ethler with stricter financial discipline and accountability.  This will
give these institutions tie ability to develop long-term strategic plans for
thbe i r operat iOlis,
1.17      NEPA and the provincial and municipal environmental protection
bureaus hlave set guidelines and regulations to govern wastewater discharges.
hIowever, these agencies do not have sufficient power to deal with large
inidustries (the major polluters), which usually have very strong political
support.  Consequently, measures to abate pollution, such as the levying of
pollution charges, have often not been effective, as the chatges have
frequently been forcibly depressed so that polluting industries would rather
pay pollution charges than take appropriate measures to reduce pollution.
Most provincial governments are already aware of the need for environmental
protection, and some measures are already being taken (para. 1.5).
Strengthening and equipping environmental protection bureaus and training of
their staffs to carry out pollution control functions effectively would be
urgently needed.
1.18      The traffic situation in cities has been deteriorating over the
past few years as indicated by decreasing travel speeds in the CBD and an
increasing number of accidents. With heavy competition for limited city
development funds for capital works, urban transport projects need to
emphasize low-cost improvement and operational efficiency. The thrust for
such improvements would lie in improving the utilization of the current road
system and upgrading the public transport system to make it a more desireable
mode of travel. There is a need to introduce improved concepts and design of
urban transport and road systems. Local officials in charge of urban
transport need to be trained in design, operation, management, and traffic
regulations enforcement. For the public transport system, operations need to
be made more efficient through better route and schedule design, and improved
maintenance of public transport vehicles.
Previous Operations and Sector Work
1.19      The Bank Group is involved in three projects in China's urban and
water supply sectors, which are now under implementation. These are:
(a)  The China Rural Water Supply Project (Credit 1578-CHA, SDR 82.1
million, 1985) to finance equipment, goods, civil works, training,
and devalopment of management and monitoring systems for water
supply systems in about 4,650 villages, of four provinces and
Beijing Municipality. Water supply to about 75 percent of the
project villages has now been completed. Project completion is
scheduled for 1991.
(b)  The Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 1779-CHA, SDR 78.9 million,
1987; Loan 2794-CHA, US$45 million, 1987) to finance a link and
intercepting sewer system to collect, transport and treat
wastewater for disposal in the estuary of the Changjiang; studies
on management and organization, sewerage tariff, Huangpu River



- 6 -
l,sjnt management, and sewer system rehabilitation; ani( statf
training. Project implementation is on schedule with project
completion expected by December 1992.
,)  Thie Medium Cities Planning and Management Project (Credit 21001-CHA,
SOR 62.2 million, Loan 3286-CHA, US$79.4 million, 1991) to finarice
investmenits in education and health services, housing,
transportation, water supply and sewerage, industrial development
and pollution control in three medium sized cities, Changzhou,
Shashi and Luoyang.  Included also is technical assistance for
urban planning and management. Project implementation commenced in
January 1991 and is scheduled for completion in December 1996.
1.20      Sector work carried out by the Bank Group includes: (a) the
Sh,inglhai Sector Memorandum (Urban), Report No. 4227-CHA, December 1982; (b) a
Bank Group economic report, China -- Long-term Development Issues and Options,
Report No. 5206- CHA, May 22, 1985, which includes a chapter on spatial and
urban issues; (c) an urban sector survey in Liaoning province in 1985 in
cooperation with UNDP and AIDAB; and (d) an urban sector study in Zhejiang
Province, China --Zheiiang: Challenges of Rapid Urbanization, Report No. 6612-
CHA, August 3, 1987. Currently under preparation are a "Housing Reform Sector
Study", focusing on options for housing reform in China, and an "Environmental
Strategy Study" to help formulate long-term environmental protection and
natural resource policies and programs.
Bank Group's Role and Sector Lending Strategy
1.21      The Bank Group sees its principal role as fostering a continuing
dialogue on sector issues and options, thereby helping to map the transition
to urban development planning that is decentralized, more market-responsive,
efficient, and sensitive to equity and the need for environmental protection.
The Bank Group's approach is to: (a) invest resources in understanding issues
and options through sector studies; (b) provide the central authorities with
analyses in areas requiring central government action; and (c) build or,
project experience elsewhere and, through the financing of infrastructure and
technical assistance, help improve overall local planning and the planning and
management of those sectors that are primarily the responsibility of local
authorities. The spatial priorities of the program reflect those of the
central government: first, to target the large urban centers most closely
linked to the opening to the outside world; second, to become involved in
multi-city coastal provincial projects; and third, to work selectively with
cities of moderate size.
1.22      The Bank Group has developed a sector strategy which addresses the
key sector issues. Analytical work and lending operations are aimed toward
assisting China's central and local governments to: (a) introduce tools that
define local spatial and investment priorities; (b) utilize existing
facilities more effectively through non-construction measures; (c) enable
sector managers at the local level to adopt planning and management tools that
are more demand-responsive and utilize project selection criteria that
incorporate economlc and financial as well as technical perspectives; (d)
encourage greater cost recovery from users of public utilities' services; and
(e) operationalize environmental resource management in urban areas through
establishment of appropriate institutional and financing mechanisms.



II.  PROJECIT BACKGROUND
Project Background
2.1        In 1986 a survey of conditions of urban services in cities in the
north-east Chinese province of Liaoning was conducted under the joiut effort
of the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB), the
UNDP RAS 81/001 Project and the World Bank. The survey identified water
supply, wastewater management, water pollution control and urban transport as
major problem areas.  Further work was thien carried out by thie Liaoning
Government assisted by consultants financed under an A$4 million grant from
AIDAB to formulate strategic plans for water resource developrtient, water and
wastewater management, water pollution control and urban transport improvement
for cities in the basins of the Hun and Taizi Rivers which contain the
heaviest urban and industrial concentration in the province.5 Cities
involved in water, wastewater and water pollution control included: Shenyang
(city district population of 3.25 million), Fushun (1.08 million), Anshan
(1.09 million), Benxi (0.68 million), Liaoyang (0.43 million), and Yingkou
(0.36 million). Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun were also involved in urban
transport. The execution of this work was supervised by the Bank Group under
a memorandum of understanding with AIDAB. In addition the Liaoning Government
also concurrently conducted water supply and pollution control studies for
Fuxin (0.55 million) and Dandong (0.45 million), two additional important
provincial cities located in the Daling River and the Yalu River basins.
2.2       Through the above efforts, long term plans have been developed and
priority investments identified for the province estimated at about Y4.5
billion (in 1988 prices) or about US$1.0 billion (at the prevailing exchange
rate) for water supply, sewerage, and water pollution control works; and Yl.25
billion or US$0.27 billion for urban transport works, as well as important
institutional development work needed to strengthen these subsectors. Because
of the size of the plans, and the time needed by the province to plan and
absorb the investments required, the works will be implemented over a period
of about 15 years. This project, which constitutes the first investment
slice, consists of the most urgent works recommended in the plans and
important institutional measures for the improvement of water supply for the
cities of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou and of urban transport in the city of
Shenyang, as well as initial efforts to address industrial water pollution
problems. The AIDAB consultants (para. 2.1) have also been instrumental in
conducting feasibility studies for the various project components. A second
project that would focus on water pollution abatement in the river basins has
also been proposed in accordance with the development plans. The planning and
design of the second project is already in hand, and technical assistance to
support it will be provided from this project.
The Project Area
2.3       The area under this project comprises the cities of Shenyang,
Yingkou and Fuxin in Liaoning Province. The province has a population of
5    The  Hun-Taizi  River  basins  cover  about  20  per  cent  of  the
province's land area, and house about 60 per cent of its urban
population.   About 60 per cent of Liaoning's industrial output is
concentrated in six major cities in these basins, Six other cities
share another 20 per cent of this industrial output.



-8-
about 36 million, with 25 million classified as urban6, and has important
iron ore, coal and oil resources, enabling it to become China's majoI bhase for
industry7.  The province has also a significant agricultural output8.
Shenyang, the provincial capital, specializes in machine building. Yingkou,
which is an important seaport, has a mix of industries with heavier
concentration in machine building and textiles. Fuxin, a city in the nortlh-
west hilly region, is involved primarily with coal and power generation.
Annex 1 provides further background information on the three cities.
Existing Water Supply and Environment Situation
2.4       The studies mentioned in para. 2.1 have identified severe water
shortages in a number of Liaoning cities. The worst conditions are those
found in the cities of Shenyang, Yingkou and Fuxin, and these have been
selected for financing in the project. Within the built-up areas of the
cities, which are the service areas of the water supply companies, all
residential and institutional users are served. Most industrial users within
the service areas are also supplied, but some of these users have been
extracting directly untreated water for their own supplies, either from
groundwater or from nearby water courses.
2.5       Water demand in the three cities has already exceeded production
capacity, and supply restrictions have been imposed on both industrial and
domestic consumptions. It is estimated that without improvement, together
with measures to curb demand, production capacities in the cities will fall
short of demand by 60 percent to 120 percent in 1995 and 120 percent to 350
percent in the year 2000.
2.6       The piped water supply in the cities is acceptable for drinking
purposes from a bacteriological point of view after it has been treated and
disinfected. Disinfected water that is distributed can often become
contaminated, however, through ingress of dirty groundwater into the
distribution pipe system during periods of low, and often negative, water
pressure which occur when supply fails to meet demand. To alleviate the
situation the water companies try to maintain a relatively high chlorine
residual in the distributed water. Another water quality problem is the
6    Urban population refers to those living in the areas under  the
administration of a city or a town.   A city is an area where the
establishment of the city administration has been approved by the
State.    A  town  is  an area  inhabited by  no  more  than  20,000
residents of whom 2,000 or more are non-agricultural population
living in the site of the township government, or an area inhabited
by at least 20,000 residents of whom 10 percent or more are non-
agricultural population living in the site of the township
government.
Liaoning produces 7.2 percent of China's gross industrial output,
with a gross per capita output of Y3416 (1988) which is about 2.1
times the national average.   In terms of gross heavy industrial
output Liaoning produces 9.4 percent of the national output.
8    Liaoning's  per  capita  agricultural  output  of  Y595  (1988)  is
slightly above the national average, and agricultural output
constitutes about 15 percent of the total provincial output.



- 9 -
o v...  *rof hi gh iroli an d manigane(ese coritent in a large part of the groundwater
,  lhi  1'gi (Ill whihli is uied as a source  in all    three cities   The presence of
't.t lvillcral:. (caues,s the Stiplpied water to discolor as it is exposed to the
.Iwt io  40  I e,
.2        Water quality is a particularly serious problem in Shlenyanig where a
laz,e [part of the groundwater used comes from water recharged in the Hun River
w[Jihi receives heavy pollution from cities upstream.  Although most of the
hacteria and suspended matter is removed through natural filtration in the
y,roiiid before the water reaches the wells, dissolved chemicals from industrial
effluents remain in the water.  The pollution in the river water causes an
increase in aciditv ill the water that facilitates leachinig of iron and
Iirn;.atliese firom the soil.
."8        iHeavy industrial and population concentration, together with lack
of env'ironmental concern in the past, have caused serious water pollution
pilo)lems in many waterways of the province. The situation is most severe in
the Htutn and Taizi river basins, where a large part of surface flows have been
rendered unsafe for human consumption due to the uncontrolled discharge of
industrial effluents containing toxic matters and heavy metals. The Liaoning
Environmental Protection Bureau is already tightening enforcement of
regulations for reducing industrial water pollution, particularly on the
removal of toxic matters and heavy metals. An action program has been drawn
up for the various municipalities to work out with polluting industries a
timed plan for reducing pollution discharges,
2.9       In all cities, including the project cities, plans are being
developed for the construction of sewers and sewage treatment plants to
collect and appropriately dispose of municipal wastewater. These plans would
require very large investments. Studies are being carried out to identify
less expensive methods of sewage treatment which may help relieve some of the
capital and operating cost burdens. The water resource and water pollution
control studies carried out in the province (para. 2.1) have proposed a
program of works for wastewater treatment facilities that could produce the
best result for improving water quality of the river systems given the
financial constraints. On the basis of these studies, a project which focuses
on wastewater management and water pollution abatement in three major cities
of the Hun-Taizi River basins, to immediately follow the proposed project, has
been planned for Bank Group assistance. This project would also provide
support for industrial pollution reduction, including waste minimization
through process modification, recycling and conversion to the use of non-toxic
inputs, as well as effluent treatment.
Status of Existing Urban Transport
2.1O      Rapid economic expansion is placing heavy demands on the entire
transport system of the province. Motor vehicles in Liaoning cities now total
about 150,000. In addition there are about 3.5 million non-motor driven vehi-
cles, mainly bicycles, which are expected to remain as the chief mode of
passenger travel for many years. Recent statistics in Shenyang, where the
urban transport component of the project will be located, show that the number
of motor vehicles has tripled and that for bicycles have nearly doubled to
154,000 and 3.0 million respectively during the period 1982-1989. Bus rider-
ship, on the other hand, has leveled off, and recently declined, a phenomenon
which is partially explained by the deterioration in bus service caused by
lack of investment in equipment and rapidly increasing operating costs.
Bicycles dominate peak-period traffic flows in Shenyang, and account for 80



- 10 -
percent of all notn-walking trips, with buses accounting for another 1/
percent. Thie city is served by a fleet of about 1,200 buses and trolley-
buses, and another 2,000 buses are owned by enterprises and are used for
transporting employees to and from work.  Due to street congestion the buses
have a difficult time competing during peak hours with bicycles faster by
almost 50 percent in door-to-door journey times. Poor traffic managemenit
further exacerbates tihe situation. The present wide variety of vehiicle types
with their varying speeds is causing serious congestion, delays and accidents.
III. DEMAND FOR URBAN WATER AND TRANSPORT SERVICES
Population Growth
3.1       From 1977 to 1986, population in Liaoning cities9 grew at an
average rate of about 4 percent p.a.. The high growth rate was attributed
mainly to very active migration from rural areas of the province. Migration
rates reached a peak of 7.7 percent p.a. in 1978, and have been declining
since then, dropping to 0.8 percent in 1986. It is estimated that, while some
resurgence of rural to urban migration may occur, a resumption of the high
migration rates of the past is unlikely.  With decreasing birth rate, the net
population growth rate in Liaoning Uities is expected to approach the national
average population growth rate of about 0.8 percent p.a. in the year 2000.
The projected population in the three project cities are shown in Table 3.1
below.
Table 3.1: POPULATION PROJECTION
Shenvang      Fuxin    Yingkou
Population in 1986 (000's)           2,870         511       430
Forecast population (000's)
1995          3,170         650        460
2000          3,300         680        480
Water Demand
3.2       The total projected water demand in the three cities, broken down
into various use categories, under "strict" and "normal" conservation
scenarios, are shown in Annex 2. The water demand consumer categories
comprise residential, institutionallo and industrial users. A separate
analysis has been conducted for each category. In addition, unaccounted for
water, cons;.sting of losses through leakage, pilferage and under-registration
of meters, bias been estimated. The water demands for the case of strict water
conservatiort enforcement has been proposed to be used in the planning of water
9    Poprulation data used for preparing the demand projections are drawn
from information given in the 1988 Statistical Handbook of China,
and the report of the Third National Population Census carried out
in 1982.
10   Offices, schools and other public and commercial places.



- 11 -
supply of the three cities.  The demands to be met by tthe water supply
companies of the cities are summarized in Table 3.2 below. Basic assunptions
underlying the demand projections are described in paras. 3.3 to 3.6.  The
water sources which need to be developed to meet the water demands, are sthow'I
in Annex 2. These sources include both those which would be used by the water
supply companies and those which would be developed and directly extracted by
industries as the industrial users tap the same water sources as the water
companies. The proposed timing sequences for the development of the water
sources, including proposals for the proposed project, are the least cost
alternative sequences obtained from feasibility studies (para. 2.2).
Table 3.2:  WATER DEMAND PROJECTIONS (mi3 per day)
Growth % p.a.
1990         1995       2000       1990-2000
Shenyang
Residential         277,502    312,245       346,320        2.26
Institutional       280,973    255,185      293,040        0.03
Industrial          576,962    814,000   1,073,000         6.14
Unaccounted         170,316    207,215       256,854        3.90
TOTAL          1.305_753  1.588.645   1.969.214         3.90
Fuxin
Residential         34,589       52,960       63,664        6.85
Institutional       21,653       34,424      41,520         7.35
Industrial         113,572      155,000      165,000       4.26
Unaccounted         25,472       36,358       40,528        5.24
TOTAL           195.287      278.742     310.712        5.24
Yingkou
Residential         24,428       31,560       44,160        6.52
Institutional       17,260       30,508       32,016        7.87
Industrial          70,300       97,300     104,100        5.31
Unaccounted         16,798       23,905       27,041        6.00
TOTAL           128.786      183.273     207.317        6.00
3.3       Residential and Institutional Water Use.  Traditionally,
residential and institutional water use in Chinese cities are intimately
linked. Due to the lack of plumbing facilities in older homes, most of the
domestic ablution activities have been carried out at the work places of
workers. This has accounted for unusually low residential water use in the
past, with correspondingly high institutional water use. More recent figures
show that while institutional use is still increasing, its ratio to domestic
use is declining in Shenyang, showing a gradual shift to household water use
in new homes with better plumbing facilities. As restrictions to the present
heavy demands are relieved with water made available through the proposed
project, and with rapidly rising incomes, unrestricted residential and



- 12 -
institutionial per capita water conisumption in the three citites is expected to
grow at a relatively high ratu of 3.0 percent p.a..  However, witth a gen(eral
scarcity of water resourctes in the regiotn, the cities would still find it
necessary to impose hoth phvsical and pricing measures for demand inanagement
in order to avoid heavy future investmenits, and more modest growthi levels are
therefore expected.  Aninex 2 provides projected residential alid institutional
per capita anid daily water demands for the period 1989 to 2000 --or situations,
of both normal and strict water conservation enforcement (using price and
quota measures).
3.4       Industrial Water Use.  About 60 percent of the total municipal
water supply in the three cities are used by industries.  Industrial water
consumption is expected to grow further given the 8.7 percent p.a. industrial
growth projected by the Government for the next 10 years.  A survey conducted
by the cities on water use by various types of industries, with water
consumption per Y10,000 of industrial output used as a criterion, showed water
use to be two to five times higher than similar industries in many developed
countries. In an effort to conserve water, the cities are requiring most
existing industries to improve water consumption efficiency, through imposing
a penalty for water consumption beyond the quota set for each major industry.
New industries are allocated water amounts based on established and reasonable
industry norms which reflect prudent water use.
3.5       In projecting industrial water demands for Shenyang, apart from the
assumption of an industrial output growth of 8.7 percent p.a., we have assumed
improved water use efficiency, resulting in a reduction of unit water use to
65 percent of the 1989 levels by year 2000 with normal conservation measures,
and to 50 percent of 1989 levels under strict water conservation enforcement.
The overall results give a net industrial water demand growth rate of 4.7
percent and 2.7 percent p.a. respectively for the two cases.  For Yingkou and
Fuxin, most of the industrial water demand growth is attributed to new
industries. Annex 2 shows the projected industrial demands.
3.6       Unaccounted for water was reported to be less than 10 percent in
each of the three cities, but this figure cannot be substantiated. There is
very little leakage control, and leaks are repaired when they become visible
at the ground surface or begin to affect water pressure. With the presence of
old pipes in many areas of the cities, the ability to maintain unaccounted for
water at this low level is debatable. The situation will worsen as water
pressures are raised when the water supply is improved as a result of the
proposed project. A more realistic value of the unaccounted for water of 15
percent has been used for the purpose of estimating total water demands,
assuming that measures to control leakage proposed in this project (para.
5.13) would be implemented,
3.7       As th  urban water supply system shares with other users the same
water resources in the region, to achieve the goal of optimizing water
resource use, a concerted effort by all users to conserve water will,
therefore, be necessary. For this purpose, assurances were obtained from the
Liaoning Government during negotiations to: (a) carry out, with the assistance
of experienced consultants and based on terms of reference and timing
satisfactory to the Association, a study on the pricing of water resources for
agriculture and urban water supply in the Hun-Taizi River Basin region, as
well as other measures for water conservation; and (b) discuss the results of
the study with the Association, and implement its recommendations after they
have been agreed. Draft terms of reference for the study, given in Annex 3,
were also discussed and geeneral agreemernt reached.



- 13 -
Ur'bani Tran_polrt tecd ijn Sheny aill 
3 .8       Urbanl expansion itn She nyanig is const rai ned in thie solit h by t li Hull
kiver which forins a natural harrier.  P'resently most of thte city areas
accommodate botth resident ial and employmenit areas. With expected changres in
tthe employment structure from heavy/factory-based inidustry to light industry
anid the service sectors, and due to genieral improvements in housing, transport
patterns are expected to change in the long term.
3.9        An analysis for future road developmetnt and upgrading hlas been
prepared for Shetnyang (AIDAB study referred to in para 2.1 above).  It is
based on a systematic review of Shenyang's existing and future transport
problems and demands, and conforms with the city's long term master plan f or-
urban development. An immediate need of Shenyang is the relief of severe
traffic congestion in the city. Diagnostic studies carried out by the
consultants have measured this in terms of volumes for vehicles and bicycles,
accident rates, and width of road corridors (see Annex 4). During the period
1982 to 1988, the number of motorized vehicles grew at an average rate of 16.5
percent p.a., while bicycles, which are considerably larger in number, grew at
a rate of 6 percent p.a. (see Annex 5). Future rates of increase are expected
to slow to 7 percent and 3 percent p.a. respectively. The main problem to be
corrected is the uncontrolled use of road space by motorized vehicles,
bicycles, and pedestrian. In order that major investments for road
construction can be deferred, much work has to be done to streamline traffic
flow and to improve travellers' use of public transport.  To achieve this,
road congestion will have to be reduced to allow public transport travel times
to be decreased, and bus routings would have to be rationalized.  Stricter
enforcement of road discipline and better road signs and markings would be
required to improve road safety.
3.10       Public transport vehicles of the city have average ages of 12-14
years, and some of the overhaul repair facilities are 40-50 years old.  Some
of the vehicles are in dire need of major overhauls and many should be
retired.  However to reduce the requirzment for large capital investment in
new vehicles, the transport companies have embarked on depot modernization
programs for vehicle overhaul that will both reduce the time in-the-shop and
increase overhaul capacity. New structures have either been completed or will
be completed by the end of 1990 to house the new vehicle overhaul operations.
Road Maintenance Needs
3.11       At present only those roads that come under the Road M'1aintenance
Division of the Urban Construction Bureau are being adequately maintained.
These comprise about one-half of the total road network (joout 2,562 km.),
mainly comprising the first and second class roads. T;his condition is largely
due to lack of proper maintenance equipment anLd tlb: absence of a strategy that
includes preventive maintenance and less expensive maintenance techniques.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Proiect Obiectives
4.1        The project is part the first slice of a de-elopment program which
has broad objectives of improving the utilization and management of water
resources and the management of urban transport, two of the most critical
areas of concern in the development of Liaoning province. Specific objectives



- 14 -
ut thte project are: (a) to improve water supply conditions in the cities of
Shenyarig, Yitngkou and Fuxin through physical works, and strengthening of
institutions, regulations, management, financial and pricing policies in the
,AihLsctor; (b) to improve traffic and public transport conditions in Shenyang
through1 a pilot program of selected low-cost physical works as well as
strengthening of institutions responsible for planning, managing and operating
transport systems, and of traffic regulations and their enforcement; and (c)
to inprove measures for water pollution abatement through technical assistance
to fintd effective treatment processes, strengthen institutions and enforcement
measures for water pollution control, and develop the human resources required
to implement this program.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.2       Liaoniirg is an important industrial base, and a province which is
experiencing one of the highest urban growth rates in China, with
corresponding pressures for urban service and environmental needs. The
province is also one of the most enterprising in the country, and has been
actively pursuing economic reforms. Faced with the pressing need to improve
efficiency of urban services and quality of the environment, the province has
turned to the Association for assistance, particularly in the areas of
institutional development and management of urban and environmental services.
The project will assist the Liaoning Provincial Government and the municipal
governments to build upon earlier donor-supported planning and programming
efforts. It will set appropriate sector policies and regulations with regard
to water resource management, water supply, water pollution control and urban
transport, and will strengthen institutions in these sectors in operations
aimed at achieving cost recovery, efficient use of water and road space, and
effective water pollution control. Liaoning Province having recently embarked
on a major investment program for urban and environmental services,
Association assistance is particularly useful at this stage in helping to
create the institutional framework needed for long term development of the
sectors, to provide advice on major investment decisions, and to support the
continuation of the development program in the planning of the next slice of
the investment program focussed on water polluttion abatement. The Central
Government strongly supports the project, and aims to have the measures intro-
duced in this project to serve as a model for replication in other provinces
in China.
Project Description
4.3       The project would provide physical works and technical assistance
for institutional development in water supply for the provincial cities of
Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou, and iin urban transport for the city of Shenyang.
The physical works of the water supply component would include the construc-
tion of transmission pipelines from existing storage reservoirs, pumping
stations, treatment works, supply and distribution pipes, and improvements to
the existing water supply networks for the water supply companies of the three
cities. The institutional aspect for the water supply component would streng-
then the water companies, as well as the Liaoning Water Resource Commission
in: (a) developing and enforcing adequate water regulations; (b) establishing
appropriate water resource and water supply pricing policies; (c) improving
water operation practices; (d) promoting measures for water conservation; and
(e) training of staff. On water pollution control, the project would provide
technical assistance to the Environmental Protection Bureaus of Liaoning
Province and of the three municipalities to (a) study methods for pollution
source treatment; (b) study available types of equipment for treatment and



- 15 -
regulations; (d) purchase equipment and instruments for water pollution
monitoring, and a mobile laboratory and equipment for water quality monitoring
work; and (e) train staff engaged in water pollution control work. The
project would also provide technical assistance to the Liaoning Construction
Commission and the Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau to plan a second
phase project which would focus largely on sewerage and wastewater treatment
work required for water pollution control.
4.4       The urban transport component would assist the Shenyang Urban
Construction Bureau to carry out traffic corridor improvements, and procure
equipment for maintenance of roads. Workshop equipment for maintenance and
repair will also be procured for the Shenyang Bus and Trolley-bus Companies.
Included also would be technical assistance to the Shenyang Construction
Commission and the Traffic Brigades of the Shenyang Public Security Bureau
for: (a) formulating better urban transport management policies; (b) planning
projects; (c) introducing advanced traffic system management techniques and
safety enforcement; (d) strengthening of operation and maintenance of the bus
and trolley-bus companies; and (e) staff training.
4.5       Details of the various project components are given in Annex 6.  A
summary of these components is given below:
(a) Shenyana Water Suppllv: (US$52.7 million). Construction of about 51
km. of water transmission pipeline (single 2,200 mm dia. or twin
1,600 mm dia., 400,000 m3), and 32 km. of distribution pipelines
(500 mm to 1,200 mm dia.).
(b) Fuxin Water Supply: (US$27.0 million). Construction of intake
works, sedimentation basin and pumping station at Naodehai
Reservoir, about 74 km. of water transmission pipeline (900 mm to
1,600 mm dia., 100,000 m3 per day), 2 booster pump stations, water
treatment plant, and about 14 km. of supply pipeline (900 mm to
1,200 mm dia.) to the city network.
(c) Yingkou Water Supplv: (US$18.4 million). Construction of about 57
km. of water transmission pipeline (500 to 900 mm dia.), water
intake at Daliao River (120,000 mi3 per day), pumping station, about
49 km. of distribution pipelines (300 mm to 900 mm dia.), and
improvements to existing water treatment plants.
(d) Water Pollution Control: (US$1.8 million). Procurement of
equipment and instruments for environmental pollution monitoring,
and a mobile laboratory and equipment for water quality monitoring
work.
(e)  Shenyang Urban Transport: (US$20.8 million).  Improvement of about
44 km. of arterial road corridors; procurement of maintenance and
repair equipment for bus and trolley-bus depots and garages;
improvement of operation management for bus routing and scheduling,
maintenance and financial control; procurement of road maintenance
and road safety (line marking and signing) equipment, and
implementation of a computerized road maintenance system.
(f) Proiect SupRort Technical Assistance (Engineering-related) (US$3.1
million), for: (i) advising on project management and construction
supervision; and (ii) consultants for the preparation of a second
phase project.



* 16 -
(g) Capacity Building Technical Assistance (Institution-related)
(US$1.6 million), for: (i) experts to provide techntical anid
financial advice to the management of the water supply companies:
(ii) technical experts to provide advice to the management of
public transport companies in Shenyang; (iii) technical experts to
advise on urban transport management and road saferv enforcement;
and (iv) training for staff of the project offices, staff of the 3
water supply companies, and other staff engaged in water supply,
urban transport, traffic control and environmental protection (sec
details in paras. 4.16 and 4.18).
(h) Policy Development Technical Assistance (Institution-related)
(US$0.8 million), for: (i) studies on water resource and water
supply pricing; and effective methods for industrial wastewater
treatment, including the strengthening of environmental protection
laws and regulations.
Proiect Cost Estimates
4.6       Project cost estimates are based on engineering designs prepared bN
Liaoning provincial and municipal officials with the assistance of local
consultants and consultants financed by AIDAB. The unit prices used come fro;r
several sources: (a) quotations on equipment and materials from foreign and
local suppliers; (b) construction costs according to prices published by the
Government, adjusted for inflation; (c) prices for goods and works from recent
contracts in China; and (d) composite unit construction costs for system
components used in forelgn countries for estimating purposes. Goods imported
for the project with credit proceeds are exempt from import duties and taxes.
A physical contingency of 10 percent of the base cost has been added. Local
price contingencies assume price increases of 10 percent in 1991, 8 percent ill
1992, and 5 percent p.a. thereafter: foreign price contingencies used are 9
percent in 1991, 1.1 percent in 1992, and 2.95 percent p.a. thereafter.
4.7       The total estimated project cost is US$126.2 million (Y700
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$75.2 million (60 percent).
The total financing required, which includes US$2.4 million of interest during
construction is US$128.6 million (Y712 million). A detailed breakdown of the
estimated cost of the proposed project is in Annex 7 and is summarized in
Table 4.1.



- 17 -
Table 4.1:  ESTIMArED PROJI,Il'  ;[
E:st inuated ('o't t\, [. ii|l¢ 
Component              Local         r ie 1.              .t_
Water Supply
Shenyang              17.2         2.1]       ..          34.3
Fuxin                  9.2         13.0 O        .!       17.6
Yingkou                4.9         10.2                   12.0
Urban Transport
Shenyang               5.3          8.(       i           1S.5
Techi. Assistance
and Training           0.3          4.7                    4 v  4.0
Land Acquisition         4.8          0.0                    3,8
Base Cost (1990)        41.7         62A 0     I)13.        82.2
Physical Contingency    4,2           6.2       10.'5        8.2
Price Contingency        5.1          7.0O       1).'        9.6
Total Cost              51.0         75.2      126.2       100.0
Interest during
Construction          0.0         2.4         2.
Total Financing
Required             51.0         77.6      128.6
Project Financing
4.8       The financing plan for the project is summaiizod in Table 4.2
below:
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
Source                  Amount        Percentage
(US$ million)
IDA                      77.8            60.5
Liaoning Govt.            1.]1            0.8
Shenyang Govt.           30.3            23.6
Fuxin Govt.              12.8            10.0
Yingkou Govt.             6.6             5.1
Total               128.6           100.0
4.9       The IDA credit would be made to the People's Republic of China
(GOC). The credit would be for a 35-year term including a 10-year grace
period. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent to Liaoning Province
(LPG) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the As'jociation, which are



- 18 -
expected to be at a fixed interest of 5.5 percent p.a. for a 15-year period
including five years grace. LPG would onlend the proceeds to the Shenyang
Municipal Government (SMG), Fuxin Municipal Government (FMG) and Yingkou
Municipal Government (YMG).  Three onlending agreements, one each for SMG, FMG
and YMG, will be concluded between LPG and the municipal governments.
OnMlending terms would be at a fixed interest rate of 5.5 percent for a 15-year
period including five years grace. SMG, FMC and YMG will bear all foreign
exchange risks.
4.10      LPC would also cause the proceeds to be used for water supply
construction to be further onlent to the Shenyang Water Supply Company (SWSC),
the Fuxin Water Supply Company (FWSC) and the Yingkou Water Supply Company
(YWSC) at the variable interest rate payable on medium/long-term Renminbi
loans by the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) for a 15 year period
including five years of grace. This rate is currently around 8 to 10 percent
p.a..
4.11      Since the urban transport components of the project are for low-
cost enhancements with the objective of improving the operating efficiency of
the existing investments, the project funds will be passed on to the agencies
included in the public transport component as grants.
4.12      Agreement was reached on the onlending terms and conditions with
the GOC and LPG at negotiations. In addition, the subsidiary loan agreements
between the Municipalities and the Water Supply Companies which define
onlending terms acceptable to the Association, obligations for project
execution and the financial and institutional objectives to be set for the
water supply companies of the three municipalities were discussed at
negotiations. Approval of the Development Credit Agreement by the State
Council and execution of these subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to
Association, would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
Status of Engineering
4.13      The project was prepared by Chinese project teams established in
each of the three municipalities for the water supply and the urban transport
components, with assistance from major local design institutes"1, and
consultants funded by AIDAB. The teams were coordinated by a provincial
project office under the Liaoning Construction Commission (LCC). Feasibility
studies for the various components of the project have been reviewed by the
Association. Local and foreign consultants have been engaged to carry out
final detailed design and preparation of tender documents, which have now been
completed.
The North-east Municipal Engineering Design Institute of Changchun
for the Shenyang water component; the Beijing Municipal Engineering
Design Institute for the Yingkou water component; the Liaoning
Province Water and Electric Power Investigation Design Institute,
and the Liaoning Province Urban Planning Design and Research
Institute for the Fuxin water component; and the Shenyang Municipal
Engineering, Design and Research Institute for the Shenyang urban
transport component.



- 19 -
Consultant Services
4.14      Foreign consultants were engaged using funds from the Technical
Cooperation Credit (TCC) and UNDP (Umbrella Project) to carry out with local
consultants and counterpart staff the detailed design and preparation of bid
documents, Included in the project cost estimates are tlIQ services of
consultants required to: (a) advise on project management and construction
supervision; (b) carry out project-related studies on water supply, urban
transport and environmental protection; (c) provide technical and financial
advice to the water supply and public transport companies; and (d) prepare a
second phase project.   The total consultant (foreign and local) and
counterpart staff requirements for the project are shown in Annex 8.
4.15      Consultant services for about 270 staff-months are estimated at a
total cost of US$4.9 million, including salary, costs, fees, international
travel and subsistence. The Liaoning and the municipal governments would
provide about 1,800 staff-months of local consultants and counterpart staff
for the work. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Liaoning
Government that it would engage consultants satisfactory to the Association to
advise on project management and supervision of project construction,
conducting of project-related studies, and providing managerial, technical and
financial advice to the water supply companies, public transport companies,
and the road maintenance department.
Staff Training and Development
4.16      Training programs have been proposed by the provincial and
municipal project offices. For project staff this would include training
seminars on project management, contract management and construction
supervision. Training courses would also be held for water supply, urban
transport and environmental protection staff on water supply and wastewater
management, environmental protection control, bus transport management, road
maintenance management, and computer applications. The project would also
provide technical assistance and training equipment to improve the existing
training centers for operators in the water supply and relevant urban
transport organizations. Quality control inspectors will be trained in local
vocational institutions. Training in local institutions of higher learning
would also be provided to middle managers and financial and accounting staff
of the water companies and trainers of water operators, some of whom will be
selected for training abroad. Visits by senior managers of the water
companies to study water supply management practices in foreign countries
would also be financed. Detailed training proposals, together with an
estimate of the number and type of staff to be trained, and cost estimates are
presented in Annex 15. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Liaoning Government that it would cause the training program to be implemented
in accordance with the agreed plan and timing as stated in the Annex.
4.17      The project will provide 36 staff-months of technical and financial
management expert time to assist the three water supply companies in
strengthening their operations. The advisors would be assigned to work
closely with local staff in the water supply companies. Draft terms of
reference for the advisors are in Annex 19.
4.18      Although the Shenyang Bureau of Urban Construction and the
associated operating institutions and design institutes have a large number of
well-trained engineers in urban transport, they lack state-of-the-art
knowledge in design and p'lanning. They also do not have previous experience



- 20 -
in the Bank/Association's procurement procedures. On-the-job training has
been provided by the foreign consultants that assisted in project
identification, feasibility studies and the preliminary design. A technrical
assistance program will train core staff in urban transport in fundamentals of
traffic engineering, public transport workshop operations, road maintenance
operations and traffic/road safety enforcement.
Project Management
4.19      A provincial project office under LCC, the Liaoning Urban
Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO), has been set up with a
mandate from the Liaoning Provincial Government. Four municipal level project
offices, one each for the water component in the three cities, and one for
urban transport in Shenyang, have also been established to carry out project
preparation and execution. The project offices have been staffed, with plans
for staff additions to match project implementation needs. The project
management organization is shown in Annex 9. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from the Liaoning Government that it would cause the project
municipalities to maintain the project offices established to facilitate
implementation, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
4.20      Improvements in the traffic conditions brought about by the
corridor improvements cannot be projected precisely. For this purpose
measurements of traffic conditions (travel speed, waiting time at
intersections, traffic accidents, etc.) would be taken by project staff before
and after the improvements have been constructed. Consultants have included
plans for this work in the overall design. During implementation of the
project, should the improvements in traffic conditions not meet expectations,
corrective actions, which may include revisions in traffic engineering plans
and stricter enforcement of traffic discipline, will be taken.
Procurement
4.21      Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the
Association have been agreed with Liaoning Province. All procurement
activities will be organized through the Shenyang Machinery and Electric
Equipment Tendering Corporation (SYMEETC), an experienced procurement agency
in China which has been contracted by LUCRPO to carry out the work.
International competitive bidding (ICB) will be carried out under the auspices
of the China Machinery Corporation (CMC), which is one of several procurement
agencies in China involved in international procurement work on World Bank
projects.
4.22      Of the civil works and goods procurement packages, about 14 will be
awarded through ICB, seven through local competitive bidding (LCB), and the
remaining will be processed through other methods. Civil works have been
grouped together to the maximum extent possible to enable more of the works to
be awarded through ICB. All civil works contracts costing more than US$3.0
million and equipment contracts costing more than US$200,000 will be subject
to the Association's prior review. Annex 10 lists the contract packages with
the method of procurement and Table 4.3 summarizes the procurement categories
with the expected procurement methods.
;



- 21 -
Table 4.3   Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Project Component              ICB          LCB       OTHER     TOTAL
-US$ million -------------
Civil Works
Water Supply             37.5        14.5        2.1      54.1
(14.6)      (6.4)      (1.5)    (22.5)
Corridor Improvements                 8.1                  8.1
(3.8)                (3.8)
Equipment and Materials
Water Supply                42.4                    0.6      43.0
(38.1)                 (0.6)    (38.7)
Urban Transport              9.0                              9.0
(7.0)                            (7.0)
Land Acquisition                                    5.9       5.9
(0.0)     (0.0)
Technical Assistance &                              6.1       6.1
Training                                           (5.8)      (5.8)
TOTAL                       88.9        22.6       14.7     126.2
(59.7)     (10.2)      (7.9)    (77.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the
Association.
4.23      Civil Works.  Contracts with an estimated value of US$37.5 million,
consisting of seven water supply contracts will be awarded to prequalified
contractors under ICB procedures consistent with the Association's Guidelines.
Qualifying domestic contractors will receive a preference in bid evaluation of
7.5 percent. Contracts amounting to US$14.5 million for water supply
structures and US$8.1 million for corridor improvement will be contracted
through LCB procedures that are acceptable to the Association. Interested
foreign bidders would be allowed to bid on these LCB contracts. One project
component costing about US$2.1 million, to construct a pipeline across the Hun
River, has been carried out using force account under advanced procurement
arrangements. This method of procurement was deemed necessary in view of the
urgency of the work and the need to accomplish the work during the very short
period when the river was at low flow.
4.24      Eguipment and Materials.  The packages for equipment and materials
for the water supply component would include one package with several
subcomponents for pipe materials and contracts for equipment supply. Packages
for urban transport equipment would include public transport workshop
equipment, road maintenance equipment, and traffic signals. These equipment
and materials contracts, totaling US$51.4 million, will be procured under ICB
procedures. Qualifying domestic suppliers will receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent or custom duties and import taxes whichever is less.
In addition, small meters, instruments and other miscellaneous equipment



- 22 -
totaling about US$0.6 million will be procured through other procurement
procedures (Local Shopping) acceptable to the Association.
4.25      Technical Assistance.  Consultants retained under the project will
be recruited according to the "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by the
World Bank and its Borrowers". Local consultants and counterpart staff will
be engaged by or assigned from the local government departments to work along
with foreign consultants on detailed design (work already completed),
preparation of bid documents (work already completed), project management and
construction supervision, conducting of project-related studies, and
preparation of a phase two project. Consulting firms will be invited to
submit proposals for the construction supervision work, the conducting of
project related studies and for the preparation of a phase two project.
4.26      Advanced Procurement.  In view of the relatively short construction
season (about six months) in Liaoning Province and the urgency of some works,
advanced contracting would be needed. To hasten project execution, 13
contracts estimated to cost about US$60 million would be awarded before credit
signing. These works are: (a) headworks construction for the Fuxin water
supply; (b) road corridor improvements (4 roads); (c) 6 contracts for pipe
materials for Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou; (d) 4 contracts for civil works for
construction of water supply pipeline (about 51 kilometers) for the Shenyang
water supply; and (e) pipeline across the Hun River (work already completed).
All contracts will be procured ir accordance with the Association's
Procurement Guidelines, and the normal review process by the Association will
be followed.
Disbursement
4.27      The proposed IDA credit of US$77.8 million equivalent would be
disbursed over a period of five years as follows:
(a)  Civil Works      US$26.3 million    42% of total expenditures
(b)  Materials and   US$45.7 million    100% of foreign expenditures
Equipment                            and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(c)  Technical         US$5.8 million    100% of total expenditures
Assistance
and Training
4.28      A Special Account with an authorized allocation of US$5.2 million,
based on four months' average disbursements, would be established.
Replenishment would be made on a monthly basis or whenever the Special Account
is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit value. Disbursements for
training, civil works carried out by force account, cont;acts of civil works,
goods and services valued at less than US$200,000 would be made on the basis
of statements of expenditures (SOEs) to be certified by LUCRPO. Documents
supporting the SOEs would be retained by the LUCRPO and made available for
inspection by Association supervision missions. All other disbursements will
be made against fully documented expenditures.
4.29      The disbursement schedule (Annex 11) assumes a period of five
years, instead of 5.5 years in the standard disbursement schedule for China.



- 23 -
Project preparation and detailed design have been completed and procurement is
proceeding expeditiously. In additon the construction works are relatively
straight forward. There is also a keen interest on the part of the
beneficiary to implement the urgently required works. The shorter
disbursement period is therefore considered to be reasonable. Project
completion is estimated to be June 30, 1995, and the IDA credit closing date
would be June 30, 1996.  Retroactive financing of up to US$7   million for
expenditures after December 1, 1989 covering the 13 contracts listed in para.
4.26 will be provided.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.30      Comprehensive surveys carried out by the three municipalities have
identified the land to be acquired for pump stations, treatment plant,
pipelaying, and street improvement. Where the works are to be constructed on
agricultural land and would be buried after construction, the land would be
rented during construction and returned to the farmers for use after work
completion. A relatively small number of houses have to be demolished and the
number of people to be resettled is about 360 (90 families). All persons are
expected to be resettled in the same neighborhood. Liaoning has land
acquisition regulations which outline the procedures and compensations
required. These compensations, amounting to US$5.9 million, have been
included in the project cost estimates.
4.31      The municipalities anticipate no difficulty in carrying out land
acquisition and resettlement (in fact some of the land required for the
project has already been acquired). Each city has a team responsible for land
acquisition and resettlement, and preparation work in this area is now well
advanced. The resettlement plan and the schedule prepared by the cities
(Annex 12) are satisfactory to the Association. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the Liaoning Government that it would carry out
resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and according to a
schedule which is satisfactory to the Association. An understanding on the
various steps to be taken for resettlement was reached and recorded in the
minutes of negotiations.
Monitoring Criteria
4.32      The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 13.
Financial monitoring indicators for the water supply companies are in Annex
24. Reports on project implementation progress and on the operations of the
water supply companies would be prepared by LUCRPO and sent to the Association
quarterly commencing July 1, 1991. A project completion report reviewing the
planned objectives and the achievements of the project, including costs and
benefits derived, and performance and contribution of all parties associated
with project execution and system operation would be prepared by LUCRPO and
submitted to the Association within six months following the closing date of
the IDA credit.
V. THE BENEFICIARIES
Provincial and Municipal Institutions
5.1       The Liaoning Provincial Government is headed by a governor assisted
by five vice-governors, each of whom oversees several commissions and/or
departments. Various provincial commissions, departments and bureaus provide



- 24 -
the supervision .ioi. r;I1iit  to the municipalities on matters relating to
urban infrastru. tniii  Ii.liiuiing, development and operation.  The relevant
provincial age:iicit'          witih water supply, environmental protection and
urban transport ale t   1.w iiaoninIg Planning and Economic Commission, the
Liaoning Departmen1t (it lIT:ll(e, thie Liaoning Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade Commission, thi  I.i,)Liln  Construction Commission (LCC), the Liaoning
Water ConservancN Dr-p1)i 1 t , the Liaoning Geology and Minerals Bureau, the
Liaoning Enviro=u±,l  ilrotection Bureau (LEPB), the Liaoning Department of
Communications (LDO.   anld ihL Liaoning Department of Public Security (LDPS).
ln addition, tlhe L1.iwjii1ng Department of Public Health (LDPH) is responsible
for providing an inde,pendent check of drinking water quality.
5.2       With few exceptions, the organizations of the municipal governments
of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou are essentially similar. Municipal affairs are
overseen by the Municipal Economic and Planning Commission (Yingkou and Fuxin
have separate economic conimissions and planning commissions), and the
Municipal Urban and Rurial Construction Commission (MURCC). The MURCC
supervises a number of bUreaus which are responsible for the physical
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of the urban
infrastructure, and  iot envirornmental protection.  In addition several bureaus
concerned with urban intrastructure report directly to the office of the
mayor. These include the Finance Bureau, the Water Conservancy Bureau, the
Bureau of Public Health and thie Public Security Bureau.  Organization charts
of the Liaoning Provincial Covernment and the municipal governments of the
three project cities are in Annex 16.
The Water Supply Compn1alies
5.3       Each of tlhe project cities has a water supply company, the Shenyang
Water Supply Company (SWSC). the Fuxin Water Supply Company (FWSC) and the
Yingkou Water Supply Company (YWSC), with a charter that allows it a degree of
financial autonomy (paras. 5.4 and 6.1 to 6.4). Regulation of the water
supply companies rests witlh a citY bureau (the Urban and Rural Construction
Commission in Shenvang, and the Urban Construction Bureaus in Fuxin and
Yingkou).  Organization charts of the water companies are shown in Annex 17.
The companies are mainly responsible for the provision of piped water to
residential, institutional and industrial consumers within their authorized
service areas, which normallv cover the entire built-up areas of the cities.
5.4       In recent Years, the companies have been allowed more financial
autonomy than in the past. Managers are given the freedom to explore better
ways to achieve opera:ioni efficiency in order to make higher profits, a
designated portion of wlhicht is shared among workers. Company departments
which were formerl en1gageed in meter manufacturing and maintenance, pipe
manufacture and pipeline construction exclusively for the company have been
restructured as subsidiary companies of the parent water company with self-
accounting and profit-making objectives, and are encouraged to seek business
outside the parent company. The companies are empowered to: (a) borrow funds
for working capital and investment, and issue short-term bonds with the
approval of the municipal government; (b) protect water sources and prosecute
polluters; (c) cut off water supply to consumers who fail to pay their bills;
and (d) impose appropriate plumbing standards. While the water supply
companies can earn profits, the amount of profit they can retain is limited
(para. 6.2).
5.5       All water tariff increases have to be justified and approved at the
municipal governr-fr-t '''f ;  Tllf responsible agency for processing requests



2 5 -
for tar-iff increases is thle municipal construction commission.  Where a
ju.titiable water tariff is not approved for political or social reasons, the
w:terr companies are compensated by the governments for any resulting losses.
VaXter Billing and Collection
Sales of the water companies by consumer categories are shown in
Tatjll  S.1.  Corresponding metering information and frequency of billing are
,howi'i in Table 5,2. Virtually all industrial and major institutional
coin<;umers are metered.  Non-metered domestic consumers, mostly occupying very
old oine-storey houses, are charged on the basis of average consumption per
capita per month. The number of meters is expected to rise gradually as
hiousinig is upgraded.
Table 5.1: DISTRIBUTION OF SALES
(As of December 31, 1990)
Customers       Water Sales       Sales Revenue
Number   %       (Mln m3)  %       (Y Mln)   %
A.    SWSC
Industrial          2,415   0.3       180.0  46.9        54.0   48.5
Institutional /a    7,530   0.8       102.6  26.7        29.8   26.8
Residential       895,022  98.9        101.3  26.4       27.6   24.7
Total          904,967 100.0       383.9 100.0       111.4  100.0
B.    FWSC
Industrial           1,960   1.5        36.0  68.1       18.0   77.9
Institutional /a                         8.0  14.9        2.4   10.4
Residential       128.732  98.5          8.9  17.0        2.7   11.7
Total          130692 100.0         52.9 100.0        23.1  100.0
C. YWSC
Industrial             940   0.7        18.6  55.0       12.1   74.7
Institutional /a    1,712   1.3          5.1  15.1        2.1   13.1
Residential        127.877  98.0        10.1  29.9        2.0   12.3
Total          130.529 100.0        33.8 100.0        16.2  100.0
/a Includes commercial enterprises, public service establishments and
governmental organizations.



- 26 -
Table 5.2: METERING & FREQUENCY OF BILLING
(As of December 31, 1990)
Met-rs         Frequency
Number    %     of Collection
A. SWSC
Industrial                   2,299    98    bi-monthly
Institutional                7,159    98    bi-monthly
Residential- metered       536,666    66    bi-monthly
- unrmetered                     bi-monthly in advance
Total                  546.124
B. FWSC
Industrial                 ) 2,101  ) 100   monthly
Institutional              )        )        monthly
Residential - metered       59,865      49   monthly
- unmetered                     monthly
Total                  61.966
C. YWSC
Industrial                   1,124    100   monthly
Institutional                1,701    100   monthly
Residential - metered       37,837      72   monthly
- unmetered                     monthly
Total                  40.662
5.7       Billing activities are carried out regularly and are predominantly
manual operations, although YWSC has started to experiment with computerized
billing and accounting. Bills for all residential users and some small
businesses are presented in person and charges collected by hand. Industrial
and most institutional consumers pay their bills through direct debit from
their bank accounts. Meter reading is separate from presentation of bills and
collection of charges.
5.8       Despite its labor-intensive nature, the billing and collection
system works well with little scope for abuse, few bad debts and rapid
collection of charges due. However, there is little doubt that the process
could be streamlined with the introduction of microcomputer-based billing
systems. This would eliminate much of the tedious work, reduce staffing and
enhance analytical possibilities. The proposed project includes a small
component (under institutional development) to finance additional data
processing equipment and software for this purpose.
Water Company Accounting
5.9       Each operating department of a water company maintains financial
accounts which are consolidated with those of all other operating departments
of the same company. The units prepare accounting information in a timely
fashion each month; headquarters compile consolidated income statements,
balance sheets and supplementary statements monthly, quarterly and annually.
Accounts are prepared on an historical cost and accrual basis using a double
entry system. Assets are not revalued and are depreciated on a straight line
basis.



- 27 -
5.10      Up to the present, virtually all major capital investments have
been financed by grants from the municipal, provincial or central governments.
The accounts of construction units are not consolidated with the water
companies' accounts. As a result, construction work-in-progress is not
properly reflected in the books of the water companies. For the future,
however, major new assets will be partially financed with loans made to the
water companies who will be responsible for their repayments. Accordingly tile
water companies' future accounts will more properly reflect the full value of
new assets under construction.
Water ComRany Management
5.11      Metering:  Industrial and institutional users have essentially been
fully metered in all three cities by the end of 1990. The metering coverages
of domestic consumers are 66 percent in Shenyang, 49 percent in Fuxin and 72
percent in Yingkou. The water supply companies will make efforts to improve
domestic consumer metering. Agreed targets for metering coverage are shown in
Annex 18, and will be included in an action plan (para. 5.15) to be carried
out by the water supply companies.
5.12      Meter Maintenance:  Every city has a Bureau of Measures which
requires water meters to be replaced for maintenance every 3 to 5 years. In
addition meters are removed for checking whenever readings deviate
substantially from previous recorded readings. This practice is normal and is
acceptable. Sufficient capability exists in each company for maintenance and
repair of water meters.
5.13      Leakage Management:  In all three cities, leaks are repaired when
they become visible at the ground surface or begin to affect water pressure.
This is reflected in the size of the maintenance crews for leak detection and
pipe repair which number 340 for Shenyang, 85 for Yingkou and 250 for Fuxin;
only about 5 percent are engaged in leak detection. No effort has been made
to detect invisible leaks, which contribute a substantial amount of water loss
before they become visible or noticeable. Because of the efficiency in
collecting water charges and the strong meter maintenance program, it is
likely that most of the unaccounted for water would arise from system leakage.
The leakage situation will be aggravated as the water supply is improved and
water pressures are raised. During negotiations an action plan (para. 5.15)
was discussed in which the Liaoning Government would undertake to cause the
water supply companies to: (a) carry out an immediate survey of the amount of
leakage in their systems; and (b) carry out a systematic leak detection
program with the aim of reducing leakage and maintaining it at acceptable
levels. The procurement of suitable leak detection equipment has been
included in the project, and the technical advisors to be assigned to the
water supply companies will provide the necessary technical assistance.
5.14      Staffing Level:  The indicators of staff performance of the three
water supply companies, as measured by the number of staff per 1,000
connections, are found to be high when compared to other well-run water
utilities. This is particularly serious with the FWSC. An improvement of 10
percent to 15 percent for SWSC and YWSC, and of 15 percent to 20 percent for
FWSC by the year 2000 is considered reasonable. This could be done through a
human resource planning program which allows a gradual reduction of staff,
accompanied by job enrichment. The measures to achieve this would include:
(a) a recruitment rate which is lower than the retirement rate; (b)
redeployment of underutilized staff to areas where they can be more gainfully
employed; (c) an active in-house staff training program to upgrade staff



- 28 -
capThility and to retrain transferred staff; and (d) improved staff beniefit
incentives.  The proposed targets would be included in an action plan (para.
5.1') to be carried out by the water supply companies.
').15     Proposed target levels for improvements in metering coverage,
syst -m leakage and statting levels are shown in the schedule of performance
indicators in Annex 18.  During negotiations assurances were obtainied from the
Liaoning GoCveriuiiiemt thiat it would cause the water companies to carry out a
program for the improvemuenit of their metering coverage, system leakage anid
staffing levels, which would enable them to acheive the target performance
indicators on the specified dates as shown in the Annex.
Shenyang Urban Transport Organization
5.16      Responsibility for urban transport management in Sheniyang is vested
in three bureaus (Urban Construction Bureau, Transport Bureau and Public
Security Bureau) with separate responsibilities. A project office, the
Shenyvang Urban Special Projects Leadership Group Executive Office, has been
established as a permanient office with one of its objectives being to
coordinate project activities among the responsible bureaus. The Road
Maintenance Division (RMD), under the Urban Construction Bureau, is
re.ponsible for the maintenance of the 107 first and second class roads
,carrying about 70 percent of the total road traffic) in Shenyang. Total road
surface area for these two road categories in Shenyang accounts for roughly
5.6 percent of the city area. RMD employs about 1,100 consisting of 775
workers, 125 engineers and technicians, 100 equipment operators and 100
equipment maintenance staff, and is divided into eight maintenance teams. The
third and fourth class roads in the city are maintained by seven District
Construction Bureaus. Annex 20 provides details of road inventory and
conditions. The Traffic Brigade (under the municipal Public Security Bureau)
is responsible for traffic enforcement, road safety, installation and
operation of traffic signals, and for road markings and signs. The Bureau of
Communications is responsible for public transport, and is the authority that
regulates bus, trolley and taxi companies.
The Public Transport Companies
5.17      In Shenyang there are two public transport companies: one dealing
with bus transport, the Shenyang Bus Company, and the second, the Shenyang
Trolley-Bus Company, focussing primarily on trolley-bus service. The two
companies carry about two million passengers daily. Between the companies
there are about 680 buses and about 500 trollies operating over a total of 54
routes for a total route length of aobut 550 km. At end-1989 there were about
8,600 and 7,800 employees for the Bus Company and the Trolley-Bus Company
respectively (see operating statistics of the companies in Annex 21).
5.18      Not only do the companies provide public transport, but they also
assemble some of their vehicles and do all maintenance including major
overhauls. Major overhauls are also performed in their facilities for other
municipalities in the province, but there is not adequate capacity to keep
pace with the demand. Most of the facilities in the two organizations are
nearing 40 years old. There is therefore a large scope for improvement in
technical design, quality of construction and efficiency of maintenance
operations. Both organizations began a modernization program about three
years ago with the construction of new facilities. Capacities for major
overhauls are expected to increase by as much as 100 percent for the Bus
Company and about 33 percent for the Trolley-Bus Company with the furnishing



- 29 -
of new equipment from the project. Production targets of the public transport
colmipaniy workshops are shown in Annex 18, and will be reviewed annually witt
the companies.
Project Accounting
5.19      Project accounts will be maintained by LUCRPO in accordance with
the State Construction Unit Accounting System. This system sets out detailed
accounting definitions for capital works, cash control, receivables, payables,
and specific rules for capitalizing and expending of various items. It also
identifies a number of basic monthly, quarterly and annual reporting formats
including funds flow statements and balance sheets. The construction
accounting system is comprehensive and is adequate for the proposed project.
Audits
5.20      The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit
Administration (SAA), established in 1983, is responsible for audits of all
Bank/Association-financed projects. Under the proposed project, actual audit
of water company statements and of project accounts would be performed by the
respective municipal audit bureaus. The Liaoning Provincial Audit Bureau
(LPAB) would be responsible for auditing the consolidated accounts and
forwarding the reports to SAA for final review. This arrangement is
satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Liaoning
Government that it would cause SWSC, FWSC and YWSC to furnish annual financial
statements, certified by SAM or an acceptable auditor, to the Association
within six months of the end of each financial year commencing 1992. In
addition, assurances were obtained that the following accounts would be
similarly audited and provided to the Association: (a) project accounts of
LUCRPO for the water and urban transport components; (b) the water companies'
total capital expenditures, including construction works financed by internal
sources; and (c) the Special Account.
5.21      Both SWSC and FWSC have recently developed their own internal audit
capability to conduct periodic examinations of the accounts of each operating
unit and subsidiary. YWSC engages the service of a single auditor whose
function is limited to spot checks. The object of these examinations is
primarily to test for arithmetical accuracy and compliance with accounting
regulations and contract terms. The first State Audit Administration audit
for the project (para. 5.20) scheduled for 1992 will include a review and
commentary on the adequacy of the internal controls and internal auldits of the
three water supply companies. During negotiations understanding on this was
reached and recorded in the minutes of negotiations.
Insurance
5.22      Until recent years, insurance coverage was not available from the
dom3stic insurance industry and all enterprises had to rely on self-insurance.
The water supply entities of the proposed project are currently sufficiently
liquid to self-insure all their assets adequately against normal levels of
risk. However, in view of the large investments now planned, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Liaoning Government would cause SWSC,
FWSC and YWSC to make adequate arrangements to have their assets insured to
the satisfaction of the Association.



- 30 -
VI. FINANCE
Financial System
6.1       The three water supply companies of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou
(SWSC, FWSC, and YWSC) are all self-accounting entities under their respective
municipal governments. They must follow financial regulations issued by MOF
for all public enterprises, and procedures developed by MOC and local
financial authorities. Within that framework, the water companies enjoy broad
autonomy for managing their own financial affairs. With few exceptions, they
realize revenues which have in the past covered their operating requirements
and left them with reasonable liquidity. Most surpluses, however, have been
remitted to various levels of government; in turn, the government has provided
all the funds necessary for investment in approved capital projects on a grant
basis.
6.2       As with most state enterprises, the water companies are not
permitted to retain more than a nominal amount of their earnings (in various
Special Funds), and the cash corresponding to the earnings that are retained
must ultimately be applied to certain specified categories of expenditures or
investments. Thus, a water company's incentive to realize revenues in excess
of its obligations is limited. Also, familiar indicators of financial
performance, such as rate of return, have very limited applicability to
financial analysis of a Chinese water company.
6.3       Changes in progress in China's economic environment will inevitably
result in changes in the financial system. Already, with the introduction of
loan financing, consolidated accounts of the water companies should in the
future more accurately reflect the full value of construction work-in-
progress. In the future, some adjustment in the system of special funds
accounting will likely be necessary, as allocations to some of these funds are
directly related to historically valued gross fixed assets, while expenditures
from those funds are vulnerable to price changes.
6.4       While the financial system is adequate, the Government has begun
considering adjustments to accommodate changes in the economic environment.
To support the adjustment process, study tours have been included in the
training program under the proposed project, so that senior managers and
officials of relevant units may visit carefully selected utilities and
organizations abroad and thereby gain exposure to the approaches used
elsewhere in coping with inflating costs and extensive use of debt for
financing investments (see Annex 15).
Past and Present Financial Position of Water SuPDlY COmRanies
6.5       Financial statements of SWSC, FWSC and YWSC for the period 1986 -
1990 are in the Project File and summarized in Table 6.1. The balance sheets
have been adjusted to include construction work-in-progress, which is carried
on the books of construction units, but not consolidated into the water
companies' own operating accounts (para. 5.10).



- 31 -
Table 6.1:  KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1986 - 1990 (Yuan Million)
Year ended December 31         1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
A. SWSC
Water sales (mln m3)          327.9  340.2  344.6  381.5  383.9
Average revenue (fen/m3)       12.3   17.6   26.5   28.7   29.0
Operating revenue              40.4   59.8   91.3  109.4  111.4
Operating income /a             9.2   19.5   41.4   38.8   32.9
Capital expenditure            79.0   50.3   81.5   79.9  106.8
Net fixed assets in service  159.8  119.3  127.2  165.0  189,3
Cash at end of year             8.8   12.5   12.8    8.0    3.4
Operating ratio (%)            77.1   67.4   54.7   64.5   70.5
Rate of return (%)  /b         11.1   18.0   37.9   30.8   21.7
B. FWSC
Water sales (mln m3)           47.9   52.6   53.2   55.6   52.9
Average revenue (fen/m3)       16.2   24.4   27.9   30.6   43.7
Operating revenue               7.7   12.8   14.8   17.0   23.1
Operating income /a            (0.5)   2.7    0.8    1.0    3.6
Capital expenditure             0.9    2.6   24.9   10.1   11.1
Net fixed assets in service   41.1   39.7   39.6   61.2   55.6
Cash at end of year             0.8    1.2    0.2    0.7    0.8
Operating ratio (%)           107.1   78.7   93.3   94.1   84.4
Rate of return (%)  /b         (0.6)   8.2    3.4    3.6    6.8
C. YWSC
Water sales (mln m3)           28.1   29.1   31.7   35.7   33.8
Average revenue (fen/m3)       24.2   25.4   26.5   44.3   47.9
Operating revenue               6.8    7.4    8.4   15.8   16.2
Operating income /a             0.6    0.8    0.2    4.8    0.8
Capital expenditure             9.0   15.6   33.4   13.0   18.8
Net fixed assets in service   23.0   28.7   29.3   30.3   71.6
Cash at end of year             0.8    1.3    1.2    0.8    1.5
Operating ratio (%)            91.8   88.8   97.3   69.6   95.0
Rate of return (%)  /b          2.2    3.1    1.4   15.4    1.8
/a   Operating revenue less the aggregate of operating costs
(including depreciation).
/b   Based on historically valued average net fixed assets in
operation.
6.6       Shenyang Water SuRply Company (SWSC).  During the period 1986 to
1990, sales volume increased by about 17 percent while operating revenue
increased by about 180 percent. The modest growth in operations is largely
attributed to water shortages. The water revenue increase was mainly due to
substantial tariff increases in 1987 and 1988. With these adjustments, SWSC
was able to maintain its operating ratio within about 70 percent. Energy,
salary and administration costs increased most prominently during the period,
reflecting the combined effects of price reforms and high inflation. The rate
of return peaked at 38 percent in 1988 as a result of tariff increases, and
declined in the following years.



- 32 -
6.7       Fuxin Water Supply Company (FWSC).  During tlhe 1986-1990 period.
S'ales inicreased by about 10 percent while operating revenue increased by .,bu,t
20() percent. Low population growth and a serious effort by the municipalit'.
to erntorce water conservat ion measures were the main reasonis for ttlit slow
growthl in sales.  The substantial increase in revenue was, again, thle res;ult
of major tariff increases implemented during 1987 and 1990. Although F'WSC's
financial performance improved significantly in 1987, it was not able to
maintain healthy financial ratios. During 1988 and 1989, the operating rat io,
were over 90 percent, and the rates of return dwindled to less than 4 percent..
This was mainly the result of unprecedented high inflation. From 1987 to 1>88
alone, production costs for the water supply company had risen by about 40
percent.
6.8       Yingkou Water Supply Company (YWSC).  From 1986 to 1990, sales
increased by about 20 percent while revenue increased by about 140 percent.
The water revenue increase came mainly from the industrial sector which
experienced two major rate increases over the period. YWSC also suffered from
relatively high operating costs and high inflation. During the period under
review, production costs rose by about 150 percent and the operating ratio
averaged at about 90 percent.
6.9       By virtue of the financing -^rangements described in paras. 6.1 to
6.4, very little financial debt appears in the water companies' balance
sheets. At the end of 1990, current ratios were 2.0, 1.8 and 2.4 for SWSC,
FWSC and YWSC respectively. Up till 1989, accounts receivable from water
sales were unusually low, amounting to about 7 to 14 days' gross revenue.
This was attainable because major consumers pay their bills through direct
debits and delay in payment was uncommon (paras. 5.4 and 5.6 to 5.8). The
situation had since deteriorated for all three water supply companies, with
accounts receivable up to around 25 days of gross revenue for 1990. These
levels are still considered to be reasonable. Accounts receivable from other
sources represent the water companies' sideline business income for providing
contractual services for minor construction and installation services.
Collection of non-operating income is subject to more delays.
6.10      Valuation of Assets.  Up to the present, only about 90 percent of
the new fixed asset investments, virtually all financed by government grants,
were transferred upon project completion from the books of the construction
units to the water companies' consolidated balance sheets. The residual had
been expended to cover mobilization and preliminary costs, the residual value
of construction equipment which remained with the construction units,
relocation costs, inventory losses, and project related training and medical
expenses. As a result of this practice, all the water companies' fixed assets
are understated.
6.11      The Chinese financial system has thus far not adopted the concept
of revaluation of fixed assets. Because of incipient changes in the price
structure and high inflation experienced by the water companies in the past
few years, revaluation of assets will become increasingly relevant in the
longer term. As this matter will have nationwide impact, it cannot be
addressed in the context of the proposed project. Rather, it will be
discussed as part of the continuing policy dialogue between the
Bank/Association, MOF and SAA.



- 33 -
;. t   i    i f f
I1.     The water companies' tariits are shown in Table 6.2.  Except for
!.., Ic.tL c haiges  wtliicli are significaiit, thle same tarif f hIIa' largely bceeI i II
!f,.rz  ,ince 1950.  Unmnetered residential users pay a flat per person charge,
wi,il, All other consumers pay in accordance with their actual water
Cottw.u::ptionf  Domestic consumers do not pay a connection charge but must
pio.'ide their own meters. Industrial consumers are subject to a quota system.
For above-quota consumption the consumer pays, in addition to the normal rate,
a penalty charge of 0.5 to 5 times the normal tariff rates (para. 1.15). They
are also subject to a one-time "connection charge" of Y200 - Y600 per cubic
meter per day for approved augmentation of quotas.  Penalty and connection
charges usually go directly to the municipal governments.
Table 6.2 CURRENT WATER TARIFFS
SWSC                 FWSC                YWSC
Fen/m3  Effective   Fen/m3   Effective  Fen/m3 Effective
Industrial         30   Feb 1987       50      Jan 1990      65   Mar 1989
Institutional      30  May 1988   30 to 40  Apr 1990         40   Mar 1989
Residential        30  May 1988         30     Jun 1988      20   Mar 1989
Future Finances of Water ComRanies
6.13      Projections of the water companies' financial performance for the
period 1991-1997 are in the Project File and summarized in Table 6.3. A
summary of key financial indicators is shown in Annex 22. Assumptions used in
the financial forecasts are given in Annex 23.



- 34
Table 6.3 WATER COMPANIES' FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Year eluded December 31      1991   19(2      q4i   I (j (j   ]995')  1996   1997
s ;.'s C
Water sales (Ml1i m3)       380.9  380.9  471.9  1487.7  504.2  507.8   535.8
Average revenue (fen/m3)   30.0   40.0   14(.()   45.0   45.0   55.0    55.0
Operating income (Mln Y)   26.3   43.9   i0.7   27.9   25.0   67.1    28.0
Net fixed assets (Mlin Y)  199.9  340.7  35)1.9  919.3  902.4  882.0  1317.3
Long-term debt (Mln Y)       34.3   97.3  159.1  185.7  189.4  180.3   161.9
FWSC
Water sales (Mln m3)         60.8   60.8   67.1   82.5   86.2   86.2    93.4
Average revenue (fen/m3)   45.0   45.0   45.0   65.0   65.0   65.0    85.0
Operating income (Mln Y)    6.8    5.5    7.2   11.4    4.7    3.0           9.4
Net fixed assets (Mln Y)   53.2   50.6   47.9  116.4  182.3  173.2   289.3
Long-term debt (Mln Y)        4.7   23.0   52.3   74.9   83.5   80.8    72.3
YWSC
Water sales (Mln m3)         40.3   46.7   51.5   57.0   58.2   59.2    60.2
Average revenue (fen/m3)   50.0   50.0   65.0   65.0   65.0   65.0    75.0
Operating income (Mln Y)    3.0    3.4    9.8    3.6    2.9    2.0           6.7
Net fixed assets (Mln Y)   68.3   72.8   76.9  154.9  144.9  134.8   125.0
Long-term debt (Mln Y)       13.4   29.9   53.1   66.6   69.5   65.4    57.3
6.14      SWSC.  During the 1991-1997 period, due to capacity limitations and
strict conservation measures, water sales are not expected to increase
significantly except for the year when the proposed Dahuofang scheme comes
onstream. Average annual growth in sales is expected to be about 5 percent.
Net fixed assets in operation are expected to increase by about 600 percent
over current levels. Average annual capital expenditure over the period is
expected to be about two times the 1988-1990 average level.
6.15      FWSC.  Over the forecast period, FWSC is projected to maintain high
rates of growth. Sales are expected to grow about 75 percent (8 percent
p.a.), net fixed assets in service about 420 percent, and average annual
capital expenditure about four times the average 1988-1990 level.
6.16      YWSC.  From 1990 to 1994 sales are expected to grow at an average
rate of 14 percent p.a.. No major construction is planned beyond 1994 when
the proposed project schemes are scheduled to be completed.
6.17      If the water companies are to maintain their financial viability in
the light of the projected system growth to meet increasing demands, the
forecasts imply that SWSC, FWSC and YWSC will need to increase their average
water tariffs by about 90 percent, 95 percent and 57 percent respectively by
1997. These represent compound annual growth rates of about 10 percent, 10
percent and 6 percent in current terms. Based on forecast rates of inflation,



- 35 -
in real terms, ttiere will be no increase for YWSC, while that for SWSC and
VWSC will be less thian 4 percent. The urban water supply tariff study to be
conducted under the project (para. 4.5 with draft terms of reference in Annex
3) would review the existing bases of water charges and design tariff
structures for the water supply companies that would allow them to meet their
financial objectives.
6.18      On the basis of these projected sales and revenues, the forecasts
show that SWSC, FWSC and YWSC would produce satisfactory financial results.
However, the water companies also face many uncertainties which might prevent
them from actually achieving these results. In order to enable them to direct
their attention to the long-term financial impact of their investment
decisions, the water supply companies need to adopt a systematic approach to
planning their financial affairs and extend their planning horizon. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government of Liaoning that it
would cause SWSC, FWSC and YWSC to furnish to the Association, by October 31
of each year commencing October 31, 1991 and ending October 31, 1996,
financial forecasts containing incomes statements, sources and applications of
funds, and balance sheets for the next eight years.
6.19      With the aid of such a plan, the water supply companies will be
better equipped to initiate and monitor the measures necessary to maintain
financial viability. Assurances were also obtained from the Government of
Liaoning that it would cause SWSC, FWSC and YWSC to take measures, including
but not limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure that their operating revenues
are sufficient to meet the aggregate of their total operating expenses and
financial obligations. For this purpose, the water companies' operating
revenues will need to cover: (a) costs directly chargeable to operations,
including provisions for depreciation and allocations to the maintenance
special fund; (b) interests and other charges on debt which are chargeable to
operations; (c) debt repayments in excess of the amounts repayable from funds
accumulated to provide for depreciation and maintenance; (d) required
allocations from net income for the special funds for employee benefits and
production development; (e) other required allocations from net income, if
any; and (f) increases in working capital.
Financing Plan of Water Companies
6.20      The water companies' financing plans for the project implementation
pericd 1990-1995 are shown in Table 6.4.



- 36 -
Table 6.4: FINANCING PLAN (1990 - 1995)
(in millions)
SWSC             FWSC         __ ___ _
Y   USS  X      y    USS  x      Y    UsS  %
t,'Y.RCES OF FUNDS
'r .erllal cash generation  622.0 119.2  63   86.9  16.6  23   80 6  15 5  hC
Less Operatiotial Requirements  433.0  83.0  44   64.3  12.3  17   50 5  9 7  38
Less Increase in Cash    -8.5  -1.6  -1    2 1  0.4   1    19 8   3 8  15
Cash avail. for investment  197.4  37.8  20   20.5  3.9  5    10.3   2 0  8
Proposed IDA credit        166.4  31.9  17   85.0  16.3  22   67.4  12.9  50
OEher loans                 26.7  5.1  3      0.0  0.0  0      0.0   0 0  C
Other User Charges         210.1  40.2  21   13.3  2.5  4    20 3  3.9  15
Government Equity Contribution    386.4  74.0  39   259.6  49.7  69   36 0  6 9  27
Total Sources of Funds     987.0 189.1 100   378.4  72.5 100   134.1  25.7 100
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Proposed project           545.2 104.4  55   148.9  28.5  39   120.7  23.1  90
Other Water Supply Schemes  250.2  47.9  25   210.3  40.3  56    3.2  0.6  2
Special Fund Constructions  155.3  29.8  16   19.3  3.7  5    10.2  2 0  8
Other Constructions         36.2  6.9  4      0.0  0.0  0     0.0  0.0  0
Total Application of Funds  987.0 189.1 100   378.4  72.5 100   134.1  25.7 100
6.21      Under the existing financial system, the water supply companies
have been able to use internally generated funds, accumulated under special
fund accounts earmarked for system development, to cover investments in
renovation, minor structural and network expansions and major repairs.
Construction work carried out under these funds comprise about 16 percent, 5
percent and 8 percent of the total investment programs of SWSC, FWSC and YWSC.
The proposed project components account for 55 percent, 39 percent and 90
percent of each company's investment program for the period. The proposed IDA
credit will meet 17 percent, 22 percent and 50 percent of the financing
requirements of SWSC, FWSC and YWSC.
6.22      The bulk of the capital investments of the water companies has
traditionally been financed by government-allocated funds. However, records
show that substantial amounts of collected funds, which are related to
operations of the water supply sector, have actually been remitted to
governmental authorities in the past. These include, inter alia, capacity
augmentation charges, self-supply water resource charges, above-quota penalty
charges and surplus earnings of the water supply companies. Thus, while
capital investment funding may appear to come from the government, a
substantial percentage of this should actually be accounted for as funds
generated from the sector itself. During the project construction period of
1990-95 alone, these sources are estimated to amount to 21 percent, 4 percent
and 15 percent of total sources of funds for SWSC, FWSC and YWSC respectively.
6.23      To ensure that all user charges collected by the :.ubsector,
including those not reflected in the revenue statements of the water supply
companies, would indeed be clearly earmarked for the expansion of the water
supply subsector, these funds were included as "sources of funds" for the
water companies in the financial projections. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from the Government of Liaoning that it would cause SWSC, FWSC
and YWSC to maintain a self-financing ratio of 25 percent. This ratio is
defined as cash generated by the water subsector that is available for
investment, i.e the sum of internally generated cash and all other user
charges collected by the water supply subsector less operational requirements,



- 37 -
expressed as a percentage of the annual average of the capital expenditures
for the current year, the previous year and the following year. Detailed
calculation of self-financing ratios for the three water supply companies over
the forecast period is included as Annex 24.
Public Transport Charges
6.24      For the last five out of six years, the Bus Company has been
operating at a loss. The Trolley-Bus Company has also been operating at a
loss for the last three years. Public transport fare increases are under the
control of the Municipal Government. Over the past forty years there have
been three fare ircreases: in the 1950's, in 1986 and in 1988. These fare
increases have not been able to generate sufficient revenues, however, for the
public transport companies to cover recurrent expenditures, and the companies
must rely on municipal government subsidies to make up shortages (see Annex 25
on income statements of Shenyang Bus and Trolley-Bus Companies). In turn,
sufficient funds have not generally been allocated for major overhauls of
buses and trolleys, replacement of obsolete equipment, and purchase of new
equipment to increase capacity. As part of the proposed project, technical
assistance will facilitate a study to review the operations and financial
situation of these two companies, and to make recommendations on fare
requirements and measures to improve their operations. These recommendations
will be reviewed with the Association, and plans for their implementation
would be formulated.
Municipal Finances
6.25      The municipalities of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou are expected to
provide all remaining funds not met by other sources for the overall
investment program of their respective water supply companies. During the
project implementation period, the financial projections show that these
requirements would be on the order of Y386 million for Shenyang, Y260 million
for Fuxin and Y36 million for Yingkou.
6.26      Simplified historical and projected revenue statements of the three
municipalities for the period 1987-1994 are displayed in Annex 26. It is
estimated that overall urban sector spending, including capital outlays, would
make up about 10 percent of total expenditures in all three cities, of which
about 10 to 20 percent would be for water, including equity contributions for
the proposed project schemes. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Liaoning Government that it would provide or cause the municipalities
of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou to provide the necessary local currency funds
required for the execution of the project. Understanding on the Project
Implementation Schedule and funding schedule were reached during negotiations
and recorded in the minutes.
VII. ECONOMIC. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
Proiject Justification
7.1       The three cities are important industrial centers with gross
industrial outputs in 1989 estimated at Y24.9 billion (US$4.8 billion) for
Shenyang, Y1.6 billion (US$0.31 billion) for Fuxin, and Y4.0 billion (US$0.77
billion) for Yingkou. The project would allow water supply demands for
industrial and domestic needs to be fully met till the year 2000, and would
make significant improvements to urban transport in Shenvang, needed to



- 38 -
sustain economic growth and improve the standard of living of the population
in these cities.
Least-Cost Considerations
7.2       The selection of the water supply components for the three cities
has been subjected to rigorous least-cost analysis, which has been fully
documents in feasibility reports carried out by consultants (included in the
Project File). The process used included a comprehensive search of
alternative schemes which can be used to meet the pattern of growing water
demands of the three cities described in Chapter III. Potential schemes
considered are:
Shenyang.
(a)  Pipeline from Dahuofang Reservoir, with water purification.
(b)  Development of Phase 2 Shifeshi Wellfield in the Liao River basin,
with iron and manganese removal.
(c)  Development of Zhou Jai/Da Fan Wellfield in the Hun River basin,
with water purification.
Fuxin.
(a) Pipeline from Naodehai Reservoir with water purification.
(b) Development of Raoyang Aquifer with fluoride removal.
(c) Further exploitation of groundwater from the Daling River basin.
Yingkou.
(a)  Pipeline from Zhou Jia Reservoir for potable water supply, and
intake at Daliao River, pipeline and water purification plant for
industrial water supply.
(b)  Utilization of Erdaofang Reservoir water with pipeline and water
purification.
(c)  Development of Shang Tun Reservoir source at Biliu River.
The selected alternatives are those under item (a) for each of the three
cities, and are the least cost alternatives using discount rates of 5, 10 and
15 percent. The results have been confirmed by sensitivity tests with
deviations in capital and operating costs from plus to minus 15 percent. The
alternatives considered are not mutually exclusive. Rather they represent
potential sources which may all have to be eventually developed as demand
continues to grow. This explains the water resources development program
outlined in Annex 2.
Proiect BenefitL
7.3       The improved water supply would provide much needed drinking water
to the population, as well as inputs for industrial development in the three
cities. Benefits from the water components would come through improved health
conditions of the city residents, particularly those residing in lower income
areas, from: better water supply availability; improvement of water source
quality; and reduction of ingress of contaminated groundwater into the watcr
mains due to elimination of an intermittent water supply and the introduction
of adequate measures to control system leakage. The urban transport component
would relieve traffic congestion and improve road safety in central city areas
of Shenyang. Benefits would accrue from personal savings associated with
shorter travel times, savings in vehicle operating costs, reduction in



- 39 -
accident costs and reduction of air pollution. Additional project benefits
would also arise from thie introduction of better financial discipline, and
improvements in management and planning of urban services.
7.4       There are, however, difficulties in quantifying health benefits in
water supply, and in determining appropriate industrial benefits to be
attributed to water supply improvement. Projected water revenues using
average water tariffs have, therefore, been used as proxy benefits to compute
the internal rate of return (IRR) of the water supply components. These are
found to be about 4 percent for Shenyang, 8 percent for Fuxin and 5 percent
for Yingkou (Annex 27). In conducting the analysis, all costs and benefits
have been calculated in 1990 prices. Sensitivity tests assuming deviations in
costs and benefits from minus 10 percent to plus 10 percent have also been
carried out (Annex 27, page 4). The results show the IRR to range from 2.3 to
5.7 percent for the Shenyang component, 5.7 to 9.5 percent for the Fuxin
component, and 2.5 to 7.2 percent for the Yingkou component. The results are,
in fact, the minimum IRPs for the project components, since consumers have
dAmonstrated willingness to pay several times the average tariff for
adiitional water supply (para. 7.5).
7.5       The average incremental costs (A.I.C.F)12 of water supply for the
three cities, have also been computed.  These  .:e found to be from YO.39 to
YO.58 per ml for Shenyang, YO.63 to YO.89 per -' for Fuxin, and YO.57 to YO.78
per m3 for Yingkou at real discount rates fro 4 to 10 percent, and in 1990
constant prices. Annex 28 provides details oL the computations. Currently
industries pay from YO.60 to Y3.00 per m3 for water exceeding their quotas
(para. 6.12). While the charging method lacks consistency, these rates
actually exceed the A.I.C.s calculated. A study on water tariffs (para.3.7)
is proposed as part of the project to establish the method for determining the
tariff structure for the three water supply companies, in order that they
would reflect the A.I.C., as well as allowing the companies to meet their
financial obligations.
7.6       For the urban transport component, taking the package of corridor
improvements as a whole, the ERR was calculated to be 43 percent against a
base case of "do-nothing". Furthermore, the first year rate of return (FYRR)
was calculated to be about 47 percent, indicating that the improvements are
urgently needed. The basic assumptions used in the computation are shown in
Annex 29. This high economic rate of return is consistent with experience
elsewhere for low-cost traffic improvements involving improvements in traffic
control at intersections and segregation of incompatible traffic flows. A
sensitivity test with a 20 percent increase in cost and a 20 percent reduction
in the benefits reduced to the ERR to 29 percent, indicating that the
investments would still be worthwhile. Furthermore, eliminating the personal
travel time benefits to cyclists or public transport users would have only a
minor impact on the ERR. In fact about 91 percent of the benefits accrue to
motor vehicle users (excluding public transport vehicles), 88 percent of which
are from savings in vehicle operating cost (VOC) and 12 percent from personal
travel time. The transport component for road safety is considered as a
important adjunct to the corridor improvements inasmuch as it includes traffic
signals, signing, lane marking and traffic enforcement. No separate ERR was
calculated for this component.
12   The average incremental cost (A.I.C.) is an approach to obtain the
long run marginal cost.  When consumers are found to be willing to
pay the A.I.C. foe additional water, investments to expand the
system can be considered to be justified.



- 40 -
7.7       No attempt has been made to calculate the ERR of the road
maintenance, public transport and technical assistance/training components.
For road maintenance, additional road resurfacing equipment will enable the
Department to substantially increase the capacity for road resurfacing; for
public transport, additional equipment will enable both companies to reduce
the time in the shop as discussed in Annex 18, and technical
assistance/training will strengthen operations in road maintenance and public
transport, and traffic enforcement. Since improvements in traffic flows and
in the public transport companies are dependent upon improved operation,
training in these areas have been included in the training program (Annex 15).
AffordabilitY
7.8       The current domestic water rates represent approximately 1.3 to 2.5
percent of the family income of those residents on the lower quartile of the
three municipalities, assuming the prevailing usage levels. Incomes used for
these calculations represent only cash income and exclude subsidies in kind.
It is therefore clear that the tariff levels are affordable and allow some
margin for future increases.
7.9       Currently, industries are paying between 0.5 and 5.0 percent of
their production costs for water includ-ig the penalty rates mentioned in
para. 6.12, despite the high water usage. The figures are low by
international standards. As price controls are gradually tightened, it is
expected that industries would take measures to conserve water. Eventually
some of the water price increases will be passed on to the consumers.
Environmental Impact
7.10      Environmental impact assessment reports in accordance with the
requirements of the Government of People's Republic of China have been
prepared by the project municipalities and are found satisfactory by the
Association. The three water supply components involve the extraction of
water from existing reservoirs. The environmental impact of reduced flow in
the rivers due to water extraction has been studied. For Fuxin the Naodehai
Reservoir was constructed essentially for silt control. The conversion of the
reservoir for water supply will require some changes in the reservoir
discharge pattern. Studies on the operation of the reservoir have been
conducted to optimize the use of the water for water supply and, at the same
time, continue its function of silt control. The Zhou Jia Reservoir for
Yingkou was designed for irrigation, but is no longer used for agriculture
because the farmers downstream have found other sources to meet their needs.
The Dahuofang Reservoir for the Shenyang supply is a multiple purpose water
source. With a greater allocation of the water for urban water supply, some
diminishing of the agricultural water supply will result. The decrease in
agricultural water supply is minimal, however, given the comparatively smaller
size of urban water needs. Nevertheless arrangements have been made to
compensate agricultural users, and to augment the diminished supply with
improvements in groundwater supply irrigation systems.
7.11      The project would make useful contributions toward improving the
environment, which would include, inter alia, reducing the reliance on
groundwater thus lessening ground subsistence problems, strengthening
environmental protection institutions, increasing fuel efficiency through
decreasing traffic congestion, and reducing traffic accidents through road
safety improvements. The project has also included a component to address
problems associated with water pollution control, and has provided for
technical assistance to prepare a second phase project, which is part of a



- 41 -
comprehensive plan for water resource management and water quality improvement
itn Liaoriintg.  The second project will focus on irban wastewater management and
water pollution control. Draft terms of reference for project preparation are
in Annex 14.
Project Risks
7.12      Significant pricing policy reforms and various institutional
changes are required in the project, and there are possible risks that the
Liaoning Government and the three Municipal Governments may not succeed in
pushing these reforms through fully. Substantial local counterpart funds are
required and because of the heavy competition for development funds, there is
a possibility of a shortfall of funds required for the project. The project is
part of a longer term development program, and project benefits are linked to
the successful implementation of other phases of the program. There is a risk
that the Liaoning Government may not be able to raise the necessary resources
to fully implement the program, thus diminishing the potential benefits of the
project. To minimize these risks the project has provided for technical
assistance to study tariffs and tariff structures which can be afforded by the
users, and at the same time achieve the required economic objectives.
Agreement has also been reached with the Liaoning Government to provide or
cause the municipalities to provide in a timely manner the necessary
counterpart funds required for the project. The proposed project would also
provide support to build up an effective planning institution which would
follow up on the recommendations of the development program, review the
proposals periodically, prepare implementation plans and seek the investment
resources required.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       Assurances were obtained from the Government of Liaoning on the
following:
(a)  A study, with the assistance of experienced consultants and based
on terms of reference and timing satisfactory to the Association,
would be carried out on the pricing of water resources for
agriculture ani urban water supply in the Hun-Taizi River Basin
region, as well as on other measures for water conservation; and .o
discuss the results of the study with the Association, and
implement its recommendations after they have been agreed upon
(para. 3.7).
(b)  Consultants satisfactory to the Association would be engaged to
advise on detailed design, preparation of contract documents,
supervision of project construction, conducting of project-related
studies, and providing managerial, technical and financial advice
to the water supply and public transport companies (para. 4.14).
(c)  The project municipalities would maintain the project offices
established to facilitate implementation, with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, and with
competent staff in adequate numbers (para. 4.19).
(d)  Resettlement of persons affected by the project would be carried
out in a manner and according to a schedule which is satisfactory
to the Association (para. 4.31).



- 42 -
(e) The training program would be implemented in accordance with the
agreed plan and timing satisfactory to the Association (para.
4.16).
(f) SWSC, FWSC and YWSC would carry out an action plan for the
improvement of their metering, system leakage and staffing levels
to the satisfaction of the Association (para. 5.15).
(g) SWSC, FWSC and YWSC would furnish audited financial statements to
the Association within six months of the end of each financial
year. The following accounts would be similarly audited and
provided to the Association: (i) project accounts of LUCRPO for
both the water and urban transport components; (ii) the water
companies' total capital expenditures, including construction works
financed by internal sources; and (iii) the Special Account (para.
5.20).
(h) SWSC, FWSC and YWSC would make adequate arrangements to have their
assets insured to the satisfaction of the Association (para. 5.22).
(i)  SWSC, FWSC and YWSC would furnish to the Association, by October 31
of each year commencing October 31, 1991, financial forecasts
containing incomes statemn_r.ts, sources and applications of funds,
and balance sheets for the next eight years (para. 6.18).
(j) SWSC, FWSC and YWSC would take measures, including but not limited
to tariff adjustments, to ensure that their operating revenues are
sufficient to meet the aggregate of their total operating expenses
and financial obligations (para. 6.19).
(k) SWSC, FWSC and YWSC would maintain a self-financing ratio of 25
percent (para. 6.23).
(1) It would provide or cause the municipalities of Shenyang, Fuxin and
Yingkou to provide the necessary local currency funds required for
the execution of the project (para. 6.26).
8.2       Understandings were also reached on the following, and recorded in
the minutes of the negotiations:
(a) The various steps to be taken and the schedule for resettlement
(para. 4.30).
(b) The first State Audit Administration audit for the project
scheduled for 1992 will include a review and commentary on the
adequacy of the internal controls and internal audits of the three
water supply companies (para. 5.21).
(c) The Project Implementation Schedule and the funding schedule (para.
6.26).
8.3       With the above assurances and understandings, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 54.2 million (US$77.8 million
equivalent) to the People's Republic of China at standard IDA terms with 35
years maturity including 10 years grace.



Annex 1
- 43 -                                     Page I of 3
CIIINA
LtAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Particulars of Shenyang, Yingkou and Fuxin Municipalities
Shenyang                                              185,000 m3 per day for public use, and 620,000 m3 per
day for industry. An additional 400,000 m3 pcr day arc
1.    Shenyang, the capital of Liaoning provnce and   extracted from private wells by industry.  lbh. water
the fourth largest city in China, lies on the north bank of    supply company has 2,141 km. of distribution pipeline,
the Hun River about 180 km. from the sea. The city    serving 2.92 million people (680,000 families). Water
existed for over 2,000 years under various names. The  production is presently insufficient to meet demands. It
present municipality of Shenyang (population  5.26    is estimated that about 64% of the service area suffer
million) covers an area of 8,515 sq. km. of which 3,495    from low water pressure, and 30% of the service popula-
sq. km. are classified as urban with a population of 4.2    tion (210,000 families) are experiencing water shortage.
million (1986). The built-up portion of the urban area is    Shortage of water supply is reported to be also affecting
about 164 sq. km. and houses about 3.25 million people    industrial production, although the extent of this has not
(1986).  Shenyang's city (built-up area) population   been reliably estimated. Additional groundwater extrac-
fluctuated heavily from 170,000 in 1917, to 1.58 million    tion in Shenyang does not appear to be feasible as serious
in 1942, 0.80 million in 1948, 1.89 million in 1955, 2.56  groundwater table lowering is already occurring4. .he
million in 1962, and 2.24 million in 1978. From 1978 the    future water situation is even more critical with water
city population grew at an average rate of 4.8%  pa.    demand estimates from SWSC projected to incrcase to
reaching 3.25 million in 1986, a figure which has already  1,821,000 m3 per day in 1995 and 2,527,000 m3 per day
exceeded the planned city population figure of 2.6 million    in 2000. To meet the increasing water demand the city
in year 2000. Even projecting at a moderate growth rate    is planning to move to the development of more expen-
of 1.1 % p.a., Shenyang's city population would reach 3.8    sive distant water resources. Already the city is imple-
million in year 2000.                                 menting a project for utilizing ground water from the
Liao River region about 30 km. from the city. The first
2.    Apart from its own natural resources1, Shenyang    stage of this project to develop 200,000 m3 per day is
benefits also from its central location and vicinity to a    already under implementation using the municipality's
number of other important cities which are the natural    own funds, and a second stage for another 200,000 m3
resource centers of China2. 1985 statistics show the city    per day is under planning. This would still leave a deficit
to have 4,567 industrial enterprises with a gross industrial    of about 400,000 m3 per day on the 1995 water demand,
output of RMB 13.4 billion, about two thirds of which    which is expected to be taken up through this project.
are from heavy industries. Industrial subsectors include:
machinery building (47%), chemical industry (13%),    4.   The water in the Hun River at Shenyang, which
metallurgical industry (11%), food industry (7%), textile    provides about half of Shenyang's water supply, is
industry (6%) and others (16%). Gross industrial output    seriously polluted from  upstream  waste discharges.
of the city was reported to grow 11.5% from 1984 to   Wastewater from Shenyang is collected into a combined
1985. Statistics are, however, not sufficient to determine    sewer system which receives both rainwater and sanitary
the longer term industrial growth potential in Shenyang.    sewage. This is currently discharged largely untrcated
But given the favorable conditions of the city with respect    into the Hun River. The pollution resulting from this is
to natural resources and manpower capability, spurred by    also affecting the city's water supply but, more important-
the country's ongoing economic reform, strong industrial    ly, those of downstream users. Plans are currently being
growth in Shenyan§ is very likely to occur in the short    prepared to remedy the situation.
and medium terms.
5.   Shenyang has 1,123 km. of roads in its urban built-
3.    The Shenyang Water Supply Company (SWSC),    up area, of which 748 km. are less than 18 m. wide
established in 1917, is operated as a state enterprise, and  between property lines. The city has about 90,000 motor
presently serves an area of 184 sq. km., covering the    vehicles of which 43,000 are in the built up area. Serious
whole of the city's built up area. The organization of the    traffic congestion occurs in Shenyang during peak hours.
company has been restructured in 1988 to consist of a  likely causes are found to be the presence of bottlenecks
parent company with a number of subsidiary companies,    at important road sections, level crossings by several main
each responsible for the conducting of a part of SWSC's   railway lines, and inadequate traffic managemcnt. A
functions of waterworks design, installation, water produc-    home interview survey (HIS) conducted in 1985 reported
tion and water sales. The parent company is responsible    1,211,000 trips during the morning peak hour, made up
for overall management, strategic planning and coordina-    of 677,000 trips (56%) by bicycles, 360,000 trips (30%)
tion. SWSC's water source comes from 284 wells about    by walking, 141,000 trips (12%) by bus, and 33,000 (2%)
half of which are located along the Hun River and     by other modes. Average trip length and speed were
extracting the river water through infiltration. Present    found to be 6.6 km. at 7.2 km/h for public transport, 5.2
water production of SWSC is 1,048,000 m3 per day, of    km. at 10.9 km/h for bicycles and 7.6 km. at 8.8 km/h for
which 243,000 m3 per day are supplied for domestic use,    other modes. The survey demonstrated that the level of



- 44 -                                        Annex I
Page 2 of 3
scrvice offered by public transport was clearly inferior to  measurcs taken to encourage industr) to recycle plant
that of the bicycle. As bicycle traffic occupy a significant-    water and to carry out other water saving measures.
ly larger amount of road space per passenger than the  Since 1983 watcr supply was on a restricted basis'. A
public transport system, road space constraints may    rough estimate places the current deficit from an un-
require a major shift to the public transport system. This    restricted supply to be about (),(O0 m3 per day or about
would entail improvement of the level of service of the  35% of production. Preliminary estimates show water
public transport system, introduction of incentives to use  demands of 268,000 m3 per day in 1990, and 411,000 m3
the public transport system and more effective measures  per day in 2(000.
to control the present disorderly bicycle traffic.
9.   Fuxin has a combined sewer system discharging
6.    Shenyang's public transport is operated by two   through a number of outlets into the Xl River which
companies, the Public 13us Company with about 640    flows through the heart of the city. The wastewater
buses and operating on 38 routes, and the Electric    effluent is untreated and serious pollution is affecting the
Vehicle Company with 40 buses and 472 trolleys and     city's environment. Pollution in the river is also affecting
operating on 16 routes. Current practice is to design    the groundwater source of wells located along the Xi
routes so that at least 90%c of the population are within  River, and a number of these wells had to be closed
700m to 800m of a route. Service frequency is high (2-5    (para. 8). The city is currently developing plans for works
minutes during peak periods), but average waiting time  to improve the situation.
during peak hours is about 7.5 minutes indicating serious
overcrowding during thcse periods.
Yingkou
Fuxin                                                  10.  Yingkou is located at the mouth of the Da Uao
River. The river receives its flow from the Taizi and the
7.    Fuxin lies in the north-west hilly region of Liaon-  Hun rivers which confluence at a point about 60 km.
ing province. The municipality of Fuxin covers an area    from the sea. The region was inhabited as early as the
of 10,384 sq. km., with an urban area of 448 sq. km. of    Old Stone Age, and the city became an important seaport
which about 40 sq. km. are built up. Total population of    in 1864, serving the interior of North-east China. With
the municipality is 1.72 million, of which 0.65 million are    new port facilities now under construction at a location
classified as urban, with 0.55 millici living in the city's    about 70 km. from the city center, Yingkou would have
built-up area. The city thrives on its abundant coal    berthing facilities to handle up to about 15 million tons
resources, a large portion of which is used in electric    of cargo per year, making it one of the ten largest
power generation, which is exported to other regions.    seaports in the country. The municipality of Yingkou
The municipality has 827 industrial enterprises with a  covers an area of 5,401 sq. km. with 277 sq. km. of urban
gross industrial output of RMB 1.3 billion (1984), made  area of which 30 sq. km. are built up. Total population
up of coal and coking (23%), electric power generation  number 1.93 million of which 0.48 million are urban, with
(20%), machinery manufacture (16%), textiles (10%),    0.36 million in the city's built-up area. Yingkou has a
food industry (10%), chemical industry (8%), and others    wide range of industries with 1,187 industrial enterprises
(13%).                                                 and a gross industrial output of RMB 2.5 billion (1985).
Major industries include: textiles (28%), machinery
8.    The Fuxin Water Supply Company (FWSC),    manufacture (21%), food industry (15%), chemical in-
which operates as a state enterprise under the municipal    dustry (10%), metallurgical industry (7%), construction
structure, serves an urban population of 583,000 in 1986.    materials (6%), paper industry (5%), and others (8%).
The company is given autonomous power over a wide
range of organizational and personnel matters, and is    11.  The Yingkou Water Supply Company (YWSC), a
given a mandate to operate on a profit basis subject to    private utility company prior to 1950 and now operating
supervision by the Municipal Government.  FWSC's    as a public enterprise within the municipal government
water source comes from four well fields located along    structure, is responsible for water supply to the city's built
the banks of the Xi River and the Daling River. The    up districts. The company enjoys a certain degree of
original design capacity of the system was 258,000 m3 per    operational and financial autonomy, but matters related
day, but because of prolonged drought periods with    to planning, finance and tariff policies are decided at
falling groundwater levels, and contamination of wells by  higher levels of municipal government or at provincial
polluted water, some wells had to be closed. Actual    government level. The service area extends somewhat
capacity of the system  is only 139,000 m3 per day.    beyond the main urban area to serve population in the
Another 33,000 m3 per day is extracted directly from   industrial town of Laobian to the east and a fishing port
groundwater by a few large industries, giving a total    to the south. The estimated population of the water
production of 172,000 m3 per day, or 62.8 million m3 per    supply service area is about 430,000.  Water supply
year. This supply is roughly divided into: 74% to indus-    source is from groundwater, and water consumption grew
try, 18% for domestic, and 8% unaccounted for. Present    at an average rate of 11% p.a., before easily exploitable
production is unable to meet demands despite stringent    groundwater sources became exhausted. Current produc-



Page 3 of 3
tion stands ua 8fI0,) ml pur day, of which 37,000 m3 per  Wastewater .rom the city is collected through a system of
day arc tor domestic supply and 49,000 m3 per day are    combined sewers which discharge either directly or
for industry  Anothcr l(X),XiXl m3 per day are extracted  through open canals running within the city into the
privately by industry mainly from the l)aliao Rivcr.   Daliao River. Very little treatment is provided. Serious
12.   Rep)ris sh(ow the present system capacity to ti  pollution in the D)aliao River occurs near the sewer
already fully utiltied for several years, and the system has    outfalls, and as some of these are within the city area, the
not been expanded despitc several years of unprece-    environment of the city is aftected. The city is presently
dented growth. Water supply in the city is currently   preparing plans to alleviate the situation.
operated on a restncted supply basis6. This mode of
supply operation affects domestic households more
seriously , although physical curbs hav.e also to be placed
on industrial water supply. The population in the service
area is projected to grow to 460,000 in 1995 and 470,000
in 2(KX). Industrial output is estimated to rise from RMB
3.25 billion in 1987 to RMB 6.6 billion in 1995 and RMB
9.95 billion in 2000. Based on population and industrial
needs, water dcmand to be met from the YWSC is
projected at 279,000 m3 per day in 1995 and 398,000 m3
per day in 2000, which would require system capacity
increases over present production capacity of 220% and
360% respectively.
13.   The Daliao River has an average annual flow of
about 4 billion m3, and would have been sufficient to
meet all the city's present and long terms water needs,
were it not for the fact that the water is extremely
polluted from upstream industrial and domestic uses.
While plans are underway in the river basin to alleviate
the situation, it is doubtful that the water quality in the
river can reach a conditicn which is safe for human
consumption. This source can therefore be considered
only for certain types of industrial use in Yingkou.
1.  Petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore and quarry products.
2.  Fushun the coal capital, Anshan the steel capital, Benxi which is an important coal and steel center, Fuxin which supplies
thermal electric power, and Liaoyang and Tieling which supply petrochemical products.
3.  Unofficial sources quote projected 1995 and 2000 gross industrial output at RMB 31 billion and RMB 45 billion
respectively, but with recent con'- s by the Central Govemment to arrest overheating of the economy, these figures are
now under dispute.
4.  Groundwater table was observed to be lowered by 0.5 to 1.0 meter between 1983 and 1984 over the service area.
S. Four hours of supply in the morning, and four hours in the evening.
6.  City water mains are fully pressurized for two hours in the morning and two hi%rs in the evening.
7.  Residences in upper floors often receive very little or no water supply. Industries fare better as they are normally
equipped with large water storage tanks which are filled up during the pressurized periods.



- 46 -                                      Annex 2
Page I of 3
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water Demand Projections
SHENYANG (Normal Projection)
-Industry-         -Shenyang Water Co.---       Total
Year   Pop       Residential        Institutional     (Total)   (Self)  Consumed  Unacc.   Total       Water
(000's)  (Iped)  (m3/day)  (lpcd)  (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day)
1989   2773      97.2   269535      102.7   284787   947123   400000  1101645   165216  1266661  1666661
1990   2848     100 5   286397      101.8   290072  1009481   400000  1185950   177893  1363843  1763843
1991   2910     102.4   297896       99.4   289111   1054573   400000  1241580   186237  1427817  1827817
1992   2973     104.2   309857       96.9   288154  1101678   400000  1299689   194953  1494643  1894643
1993   3037     106.1   322299       94.6   287199  1150888   306000  1454386   218158  1672544  1978544
1994   3103     108.0   335240       92.3   286248  1202296   306000  1517784   227668  1745451  2051451
1995   3170     110.0   348700       90.0   285300  1256000   306000  1584000   237600  1821600  2127600
1996   3201     113.7   364115       93.7   299922  1320767   306000  1678805   251821   1930625  2236625
1997   3233     117.6   380212       95.0   307128  1388874   306000  1770214   265532  2035746  2341746
1998   3265     121.6   397021       96.3   314507  1460493   250000  1922020   288303  2210323  2460323
1999   3297     125.7   414572       97.7   322063  1535805   250000  2022440   303366  2325806  2575806
2000   3330      130.0   432900     110.0   366300  1615000   200000  2214200   332130  2546330  2746330
SHENYANG (with strict water conservation)
-Industry-        -Shenyang Water Co.-          Total
Year   Pop        Residential       Institutional     (Total)   (Self)  Consumed  Unacc.   Total       Water
(000's)  (Ipcd)  (m3/day)  (Ipcd)  (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3lday) (m3/day)
1989   2773      97.2   269535      102.7   284787   947123   400000  1101645   165216  1266661   1666661
1990   2848      974   277502        98.6   280973   976962   400000  1135437   170316  1305753  1705753
1991   2910      97.6   284127       94.7   275615  1004028   400000  1163770   174565  1338335  1738335
1992   2973      97.9   290910       90.9   270359  1031844   400000  1193112   178967  1372079  1772079
1993   3037      98.1   297854       87.3   265203  1060430   306000  1317487   197623  1515110  1821110
1994   3103      98.3   304965       83.8   260146  1089808   306000  1348919   202338  1551256  1857256
1995   3170      98.5   312245       80.5   255185  1120000   306000  1381430   207215  1588645  1894645
1996   3201      99.6   318781       81.9   262343  1149053   306000  1424177   213627  1637803  1943803
1997   3233     100.7   325453       83.4   269702  1178860   306000  1468015   220202  1688217  1994217
1998   3265     101.8   332265       84.9   277267  1209440   250000  1568972   235346  1804318  2054318
1999   3297     102.9   339220       86.4   285044  1240813   250000  1615077   242262  1857339  2107339
2000   3330      104.0   346320      88.0   293040  1273000   200000  1712360   256854  1969214  2169214
WA TER RESOURCES
Cum.    Aquifer    Total
Year   Capacity  Capacity   Mining  Capacity
Source            Required  (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day)
Shenyang Aquifer         Existing   1200000  1200000   200000  1400000
Shefosi I                Existing   200000  1400000   200000  1600000
Dahuofang                 1993     400000  1800000   106000  1906000
Shefosi [I                1997     200000  2000000          0  2000000
Zaijia/Dapan              1999      100000  2100000         0  2100000
Future (Guanyinge)



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water Demand Projections
FUXIN (Nornal Projection)
-Industry-         --Fuxin Water Co.-           Total
Year   Pop        Residential       Institutional     (Total)   (Self)  Consumed  Unacc.   Total       Water
(000's)  (Ipcd)  (m3/day)  (1pcd)  (m3/day) (m3lday) (m31day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day)
1989    487      61.5    29950       39.0    18993   117516    14000   152459    22853   175312   189312
1990    531      69.1    36708       46.2    24533   135925    14000   183165    27475   210640   224640
1991    558      74.2    41405       51.6    28808   148421    14000   204634    30695   235329   249329
1992    584      79.6    46514       57.7    33692   162066    14000   228272    34241   262513   276513
1993    610      85.5    52150       64.5    39325   176966    14000   254441    38166   292607   306607
1994    636      91.8    58363       72.0    45817   193235    14000   283415    42512   325927   339927
1995    662      98.5    65207       80.5    53291   211000    14000   315498    47325   362823   376823
1996    668      99.6    66517       81.9    54741   213918    14000   321176    48176   369352   383352
1997    674     100.7    67848       83.4    56225   216877    14000   326949    49042   375992   389992
1998    680     101.8    69200       84.9    57745   219876    14000   332821    49923   382744   396744
1999    686     102.9    70573       86.4    59302   222917    14000   338792    50819   389611   403611
2000    692      104.0    71968      88.0    60896   226000    14000   344864    51730   396594   410594
FUXIN (with strict water conservation)
-Industry-        -Fuxin Water Co.-             Total
Year   Pop        Residential       Institutional     (Total)   (Self)  Consumed  Unacc.   Total       Water
(OOO's)  (Ipcd)  (m3/day)  (Iped)  (rn3/day) (m3/day) (m3tday) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3lday) (m3/day)
1989    487      61.5    29950       39.0    18993   117516    14000   152459    22853   175312   189312
1990    531      65.1    34589       40.8    21653   127572    14000   169815    25472   195287   209287
1991    558      67.9    37873       42.8    23888   134953    14000   182714    27407   210121   224121
1992    584      70.7    41301       44.9    26247   142761    14000   196308    29446   225754   239754
1993    610      73.7    44949       47.2    28781   151020    14000   210750    31613   242363   256363
1994    636      76.8    48831       49.5    31503   159757    14000   226091    33914   260005   274005
1995    662      80.0    52960       52.0    34424   169000    14000   242384    36358   278742   292742
1996    668      82.3    54955       53.5    35745   193454    36500   247654    37148   284802   321302
1997    674      84.6    57020       55.1    37113   217931    59000   253064    37960   291024   350024
1998    680      87.0    59159       56.7    38530   219931    5Q000   258620    38793   297413   356413
1999    686      89.5    61372       58.3    39999   221954    59000   264325    39649   303973   362973
2000    692      92.0    63664       60.0    41520   224000    59000   270184    40528   310712   369712
WATER RESOURCES
Cum.    Industry   TOta
Year   Capacity  Capacity    Self   Capacity
Source            Required  (m3/day) (m3lday)  Supply  (m3(day)
(m3/day)
Wangfu                   Existing    28300    28300    14000    42300
Haizhou                  Existing    19900    48200    14000    62200
Xinqiu                   Existing     5300    53500    14000    67500
Daling                   Existing    78000   131500    14000   145500
Daba                     Existing    10000   141500    14000   IS5S00
Fesi                     Existing    30000   171500    14000   185500
Noadehai                  1993      100000   271500    14000   28SS00
Hangjiajanzi              1996      40000   311500    59000   370500



- 48 -                                      Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water Demand Projections
YINGKOU (Normal Projection)
---Industry-       ---Yingkou Water Co-- 7   Toal
Year   Pop        Residential       Institutional      (Total)   (Self)  Consumed  Untce    Total        Water
(000 s)  (Iped)   (m3lday)   (Ipcd)   (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day)  (m3/day) (0n3/day
1989    480      47.5    22800       33.1    15888   164121   105000    97809         14671    112480   217480
1990    S00      56 3    28144       37 9     18955   195400    100000   142499    21375    163874   263874
1991    505      63.0    31792       44 1    22256   217060    100000   171108    25666    196774   296774
1992    S10      70 4    35908       51.2    26130   222310    100000    184348    27652   212001    312001
1993    515      78.7    405S4       59.6    30675   233280   100000   204509    30676   235186   335186
1994    520      88.1    45797       69.2    36007   258800   100000   240604    36091   276695   376695
1995    526      98.5    51811       80.5    42343   263600    100000   257754    38663   296417   396417
1996    531      99.6    52875       81.9    43514   266400    100000   262789    39418   302207   402207
1997    536      100.7    53956      83.4    44713   269070    100000   267739    40161    307900   407900
1998    541      101.8    55054      84.9    45942   271580   100000   272576    40886   313462   413462
1999    547      102.9    56273      86.4    47286   276440   100000   279999    42000   321999   421999
2000    552      104.0    57408       88.0    48576   283400   100000   289384    43408   332792   432792
YINGKOU (with strict water conservation)
-Industry-         -Yingkou Water Co.-           Total
Year   Pop        Residential       Institutional      (Total)   (Self)  Consumed  Unacc.   Total        Water
(000 s)  (Iped)   (m3/day)   (lpcd)   (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3/day) (m3lday) (in3/day) (m3/day) (m3lday)
1989    480      47.5    22800       33.1    15888   164121    105000    97809        14671    112480   217480
1990    500      48.9    24428       34.5    17260   195400   125100   111988    16798   128786   253886
1991    505      50.9    25707       38.3    19339   217060    130490   131616        19742    151358   281848
1992    510      53.0    27051       42.5    21666   222310   137020   134007    20101    154108   291128
1993    515      55.3    28462       47.1    24271   233280   144950   141063    21159    162223   307173
1994    520      57.6    29944       52.3    27187   258800   159790   156141    23421    179562   339352
1995    526      60.0    31560       58.0    30508   263600    166300   159368    23905    183273   349573
1996    531      63.6    33747       58.0    30798   266400    168690   162255    24338    186593   355283
1997    536      67.3    36082       58.0    31088   269070    171200   165040    24756   189796   360996
1998    541      71.3    38576       58.0    31378   271580   173800   167734    25160   192894   366694
1999    547      75.5    41313       58.0    31726   276440   176500    172979    25947    198926   375426
2000    552       80.0    44160       58.0    32016   283400   179300   180276    27041   207317   386617
WATER RESOURCES
Cum.   Industry    TOt
Year   Capacity  Capacity     Self   Capacity
Source           Required  (m3/day) (m3lday)  Su ,1y  (m3/day)
Yongan                   Existing    36000    36000   100000   136000
Tuandian                 Existing    46000    82000   100000   182000
Lijia                    Existing     5000    87000   100000   187000
Sandaoling I             Existing    20000    107000   100000   207000
Sandaoling II              1990      20000   127000   125000   252000
Zhou Jia                   1992      20000   147000   138000   285000
Daliao                     1993      60000   207000   180000   387000
Others                     2000



-49                                       Page 1 of 4
CIIINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water Resourme and Water Supply Pricing Study
Draft Terms of Reference
liackeround                                           As there are many complicating factors which tend to
make simple global figures meaningless, these absolute
I    Ihe Ilun-larzi River B3asin forms the heartland of    figures should he regarded with caution. Nevertheless
laooning Province in north-east China. It has an area of    they do indicate relative proportions.
27 30K) km2 and a population of approximately 12.5
million, representing less than one-fifth of the area but    4.  More than 80% of water used in the urban sector is
more than one-third of the population of the Province.    returned to the system as waste water, containing very
1 he upper catchmcnt, above the large regulating    large pollutant loads as there is almost negligible
reservoirs, is relatively undeveloped. The central and    treatment. Water resources within the Hlun-Tatzi River
lower areas of the basin, comprising flat alluvial plains,    Basin are very limited, so re-use of water is essential.
are mostly developed for agricultural production; howevcr    Water quality is therefore of considerable concern.
these areas also contain the major population centres
which have a large and diverse industrial base.       5.  There are many institutions relevant to water
resources and uses, operating at the three levels of
2.  Iiaoning  Province contributes significantly to    government. At the provincial level, of most interest to
China's heavy industrial output, for example in iron and    the river basin context, those institutions with a major
steel, coal mining, power generation, production of    involvement are:
petroleum and petrochemicals, metallurgical and
machinery industries.  Most of this activity is based          Water Conservation Department (often called
around the six urban centres in the Hun-Taizi River            Water Conservancy)
Basin: Shenyang, the province capital, Fushun, Benxi,     -    Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB)
Liaoyang, Anshan and Yingkou.                             -    Urban Construction Commission (UCC)
3.  The Hun-Taizi River Basin is also an important    Also important are:
agricultural area. The development of surface water       -    Geology and Minerals Bureau (GMB)
resources and their application to irrigated agriculture is  -    Public Health Bureau (PHB)
well advanced. The principal application is a single crop
of paddy rice in summer. The availability of water direct    Others are also involved, and responsibilities are widely
from reservoirs has for a long time been insufficient for    spread. A steering committee was established for water
exclusive use, so irrigation supplies already include large    resources and pollution control in the Hun-Taizi River
proportions of municipal and industrial effluent, this re-    Basin, physically sponsored by Water Conservancy but
use  being  essential to  meeting  irrigation  water    including representatives from  all institutions with
requirements. Table 1 presents some very approximate    particular responsibilities within the basin.
figures to illustrate the magnitude of water use in the
basin.                                                Maior Issues Concerning Water Resource Use
Table 1: Water Suppli and Demand            6.  The largest single component in river basin water use
(Million m /year)                 is irrigation. The costs involved in supplying irrigation
water are not fully recovered in charges currently being
Current Supply          Demand         raised to the users. It is apparent that the cost of water
and Use            Proiections      to  the  user does not influence  on-farm  water
management practices or decision-making.
Surface  Ground  Total       Total
Water  Water  (1987)   1995   2000        7. Any improvement in the efficiency of water use and
URBAN                                                 re-use within the irrigation component of the rural sector,
Industry    960    820    1780    2720    3450    however small, would have a dramatic impact on the
& Domestic                                            availability of water resources in the basin. One of the
RURAL                                                 most direct methods of encouraging improvements in the
Irrigation                                            efficiency of water use is through the structure of water
and Rural                                             charges to provide incentives for more efficient practices.
Water       2870    570    3440    3910    4290       While the charges must remain affordable, they may
more adequately reflect the actual costs of water.
Total     3830   1390    5220    6630    7740



Page 2 of 4
Issues concernin2 Urban Water Supply                    many years, and has also conducted several studies on
potential water resource development projects. The
8.   Feasibility studies for the extensions to the water    information from this work would be made available for
supplies of three cities, Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou   the study. The main tasks of the study are expected to
have been carried out as part of the project preparation  include the following:
for the current World Bank Urban Infrastructure Project.
lhese studies have shown that the municipal water           a.   Gather and analyse the available data relevant
demands in these cities are expected to risc at very high         to the study; where data is not available,
rates. Industrial demand constitutes 68%, 66% and 75%             establish reasonable estimates based on field
of the total city supply for Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou          measurement of representative samples or
respectively. With a lack of incentive to conserve water,         other methods as appropriate;
the industries in the cities are using several times the    b.   Refine   ',ssessment  of  surface   and
amount of water for similar industries in industrialized          underground water resources in the basin,
countries. To cater for the short term rise in municipal          taking into account possibilities of reuse of
water demands, expansions to each city's water supply are         urban wastewater flows.
currently under implementation. Further major capital       c.   Identify existing areas under irrigation, with
investments are required before the year 2000 for both            corresponding cropping and actual water use
Shenyang and Fuxin. The financial impact of future                practices.
investments for water supply in the three cities would be   d.   Identify costs and current charges applying to
crippling, and indicates that appropriate tariff policies         water used for irrigation.
have to be instituted to encourage the water to be used     e.   Identify the existing decision-making factors
efficiently.                                                      that influence crop selection and water use.
f.    Review and summarise the current costs to,
Study Organization                                                and charges raised by the various institutions
involved in the supply of irrigation water, and
9.   The study to be conducted will be in two parts.              water resources supplied  to  cities  and
The first part will address the pricing of water resources        industries.
to both urban (including industrial) and rural users. The   g.   Assess water demands for both urban and
second part concerns tariffs for urban water supply.              rural users under different scenarios of
regulatory and pricing policies.
WATER RESOURCE PRICING STUDY                                h.   Estimate costs of developing potential water
resources (in terms of both quantiy and
Obiectives                                                        quality) that can be used to meet water
demands in the basin.
10. The aim of the study is to produce an action-           i.    Design water resources charges that would.
oriented strategy to encourage improvements in the                -   allow the government agencies involved
efficiency of water resource use and re-use within the                 to generate adequate financial income;
Hun-Taizi River Basin. Specific objectives include the                 reflect the economic cost of providing
establishment of a mechanism for setting and collection                water of suitable quality, in order to
of appropriate water resource charges that would take                  encourage water conservation, re-use and
into account costs of water resource development                       improved efficiency of use; and
(includin- purification of water for reuse) in order to           -   take into account the users' ability to
ensure economic use of the water resource. Since the                   pay.
lion share of the region's water resources is used by       j.    Study alternative methods and practices which
agriculture, establishing appropriate pricing of irrigation       would feasibly improve the efficiency of water
water will be a major part of the work. In this regard            use, both within the existing physical and
consideration should  be given also to non-pricing                institutional framework, and  by practical
measures, which can induce more efficient use of                  modification of the existing structures.
irrigation water. Consideration should also be given to     k.   Prepare  a  study  report which  contains
the possibility, in the long term, of having to import water      recommendations for action on implementing
from other basins, and how to reflect the costs associated       the proposed changes in water use practices
with this in water resource pricing should be studied.            and water changes.
Scowe of Work                                           Work Oryanisation and Proeram
11.  Much data which can be useful for this study has   12  Since much of the study work concerns agricultural
been collected by the completed Liaoning River Basin    water, it is expected that the study would have to be
Management Study. The Liaoning Water Conservancy        conducted over one complete irrigation season, extending
Department has been collecting hydrological data for    from about March to October, with an additional period



-5Sl1-                                         A     .3
Page 3 of 4
at each end to allow for data collection and report    Final Report to be submitted at the conclusion of the
completion. The total duration of this study component    study period.
will therefore be approxmately one year. To ensure that
any necessary field data is able to be gathered at the  URBAN WATER SUPPLY TARIFF STUDY
appropriate time dunng irrigation, it is important that the
starting date is fixed well in advance.               Obiectives
13. The study would be conducted  by a team           18. The objectives of the tariff study are to review the
compnsing seven Chinese specalists, working full-time,    existing bases of charging for water and to design a tariff
assisted by foreign experts. Fxpertise of the Chinese    structure for each of the municipal water companies that
Specialists would include:                            would: (a) allow the water supply companies to meet
their financial objectives; (b) reflect the economic cost of
a.  surface and ground water development and     providing the full water service in order to encourage
management;                                 water conservation, better housekeeping practices and
b.  water resource and water supply economics;    improved efficiency of water use and reuse; (c) take into
c.  irrigation  system  design, operation  and   consideration users' ability to pay.
management;
d.  agricultural economics;                      ScoPe of Work
e.   urban water supply, and
f.  finance and accounting.                      19. The main tasks of the study are expected to include:
14. The team would be appointed by the steering           a.   Review and update existing baseline studies
committee for water resources and pollution control in         for
the Hun-Taizi River Basin, and report to the Chairman
of that committee.  Office facilities and secretarial               - the existing situation
support would be provided by Water Conservancy.                     - basis of calculating depreciation
asset base
15. The team will be assisted by foreign/intemational                 source of funds
consultants financed out of the proceeds of the World               - future demand projections
Bank Loan/Credit. Expertise of the foreign consultants              - current costs  of operation  and
should include at a minimum: water resource and water               maintenance.
supply economics, irrigation and farm  management,        b.   Carry out household surveys in each of the
urban water supply and financial management.                   cities to  establish  up-to-date  household
incomes including subsidies.
Study RePorts                                             c.   Study the sources of funds available each of
the municipalities to finance major works
16. An inception report should be produced within two          including:
months after the start of work. This report should                  - industrial investment contributions;
indude infomation on the status of available data and               - self supply charges;
any methods to be employed to supplement the available              - water resource charges;
data in the course of the study, summaries of the current           - special funds;
situation, particularly regarding water costs and charges,          - grants;
approach and criteria to be applied to the study tasks              - loan funds.
Brief progress reports, covering achievements and         d.   Examine logic of current system for setting
variations to the work schedule, resources and cos,            industrial water quotas and  assess the
should be prepared at two-monthly intervals thereafter.        effectiveness of the method for conserving
By the end of Month 10 a Draft Study Report wil be             water.
prepared, providing a complete description of the tasks   e.   Review water demand projections and other
carried out and the conclusions reached. This report wil       data required to arrive at reliable estimates for
also indude interim recommendations arising from the           forecasting water sales.
study.                                                    f.   Review  costs of the capital investment
program for each of the water supply
17. AU reports will be presented to the chairman of the        companies in light of receied tender prices
steering committee with a copy to the World Bank.              for the current World Bank project, and
Comments arising from the review of the reports by the         analye operating costs (personnel, power,
committee, the World Bank and other interested parties         materials, maintenance, others) to arrive at
are expected to be transmitted to the team within six          reasonable forecasts.
weeks of submission. The comments on the Draft Study      g.   Prepare alternative feasible tariff proposals
Report will be incorporated into the preparation of the        and structures for each water supply company



- 52 -                                         Annex 3
Pagec 4 of 4
which  should  allow  the  water  supply     World Bank credit/loan Rcquir:d qualifications of the
companies to achieve fiiiancial viability, take  consultants are:
account of consumer affordability, and reflect
the  average  incremental cost (long  run        a.   successful completion of a tarift study of
marginal cast) of the water supply services,          similar scope and complexity;
and make recommendations on the most             b.   full familiarity with the economic and financial
suitable alternative industrial, institutional and     concepts underlying pricing of water supply
residential users.                                     undertakings;
h.   Fully  document  all  assumptions  and           c.   knowledge  and  familiarity   with  the
methodology used in order to facilitate future        administrative procedures of China and of
tariff reviews, and provide training to the           l iaoning Province would be useful. Previous
financial department of each water supply             work in China or knowledge of Chinese would
company and the provincial project office in          also be of use.
the preparation and updating financial
analysis models.                            Study Reports
i.   Prepare a study  report which contains
recommendations for action on implementing  23. An inception report should be produced within two
the proposed changes in tariffs for each of the  months of the start of work. This report should include
three cities                                information on: (a) the status of available data and any
methods to be employed to supplement the available data
Important Points on taie Execution of the Study       during the course of the study; and (b) summaries of the
information on demand, capital and operating costs and
20.  The following background information is available:    the sources of municipal finance. Brief progress reports
covering achievements and variations to the work
a.   Feasibility Study Reports for Shenyang Water    schedule, resources and costs, should be prepared bi-
Supply, Fuxin Water Supply and Yin6kou      monthly. A draft final report should be submitted by the
Water Supply;                               end of month six and should contain proposals for
b.   Work reports prepared by the Liaoning       various tariff structures and pricing alternatives together
Provincial Project Office (LUCRPO);         with an analysis of their financial and economic impact on
c.   Staff Appraisal Report for the Liaoning    the three water supply companies. The final report is to
Urban Infrastructure Project;               be submitted within two months of receipt of the
d.   Financial analysis models for each water    summary of views and comments on the draft final
supply company.                             report.  All these reports will be presented to the
Director of LUCRPO for review, with a copy to the
Close cooperation with the three water supply companies  World Bank.
will be required throughout the duration of the study as
much of the required data lies within these companies.
Work Organisation and Program
21. It is expected that the study would be carried out
by a team of 12 Chinese professionals drawn from each
of the water supply companies and LUCRPO and the
team would report to the Director of LUCRPO.
Necessary secretarial services will be provided by the
LUCRPO. It is estimated that the study would require
approximately nine months to complete. The Chinese
team should include expertise in the following areas:
- finance and accounting;
- management specialist with tariff design
experience;
- operational experience of urban water
supply undertakings;
* economics.
22. The team will be assisted by three foreign
consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the



- 53 -                                        Annex 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Shenyang: Urban Transport Project Corridors
Selected for Improvements
Traffic Volume           Lennth      Width            Accdents
Motor-J/    Bicycles Z         Km.    of right.        Injury J    Fatai
Corridor              Vehicles                                 of-way
1. Qingnian Dajie     1,630           11,400           5.7        27-40       128/29       9
2. Beiling Dajie        560            5,730           2.5          40         32/28       2
3. Huanghe Jie         1,280           10,100          6.0          40        135/62       4
4. Baogon/Tawan         700            13,150          3.7          36         47/32       2
5. Jianshe             1,750           18,900          5.1          40        115/254      10
6. Xinggong Jie        1,000         - 10,000          2.7          28         18/45       2
7. Dong Bei          - 1,500           10,000          2.6         36         116/65       3
8. Da Xi Lu            1,600           7,400           4.6          30        253/44       7
9. ShifuiZhulin        1,360           11,900          8.2          28        396/215      12
10. Shengli Jie       1,180           12,500           3.0         36         95/71        2
I/ Motor Vehicles: PCUs during AM Peak hours
ZI Bicycles: During AM Peak hour
3J Midblock/Intersection: Total 3 years 1987-89



- 54 -                                         Annex 5
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Shenyang Vehicle Inventory
Special1/
Year   Total  Vehicle2!3/       Bus  Trolleybus  Truck    Vehicle  Tractor   Other4v  Bicycles5,
1982    45751      6219         570      460      20483     2834      8681    6504      1747266
1983    40099      6336         574      468      18406     3050      6620    4645      1952814
1984    53725      7500         578      458      23219     1928     10610    9432      2207055
1985    66888      10307       666       458      26312     4428     11399    13318    2462260
1986    80900      12882       680       468      29112     5121     12168    20469    2677693
1987    99609      14549        660      487      32918     5554     20246    25195    2977244
1988   113761      16745       642       568      36733     5763     23404    29906    2472572
1989   153815      32092       680       582      35527     3899     24402    56633    2978460
1/ Including ambulances, fire engines, etc.
2/ Including minibuses, cargo buses and cars used by enterprises and institutions.
3/ The number of motorvehicles is referred to the the total number within the urban area.
4/ Including motorcycles.
5/ The number of bicycles is referred to the total number within the urban area, four suburbs and two
counties.



- 55 -                             Annex 0
Page 1 of 2
C(HINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Components
1.   Shenyang Watcr Suppty. Construction of a transmission pipeline (400,000 m3 per day
capacity) of about 51 km. in length comprising a single 2200 mm dia. or twin 1600 mm dia.
from Da Huo Fang Reservoir to treatment plant site, and about 32 km. of 500 mm to
1200 mm dia. distribution pipelines. (Intake works at Da Huo Fang Reservoir, and the
treatment plant for Da Huo Fang water would be constructed using Shenyang's own resources.
Parts of these works have already been started.)
2.   Fuxin Water Supply: Construction of intake works, sedimentation basin and pumping station
at Nodehai Reservoir, about 74 km. of 900 mm to 1600 mm dia. transmission pipeline (100,000
m3 per day capacity) from Nodehai sedimentation basin to treatment plant site, 2 boostcr
pump stations, water treatment plant, and about 14 km. of 900 mm to 1200 mm dia. supply
line to the city network.
3.   Yingkou Water SuDPlV: Construction of about 17 km. of 500 mm dia. trn'Ismission pipeline
from Zhou Jia Reservoir to the existing San Dao Ling pipeline; a water i L:a; . Daliao River
(120,000 m3 per day capacity) for industrial water supply; a pumping station, about 40 km. of
600 mm to 900 mm dia. transmission pipeline, and about 49 km. of 300 mm to 900 mm dia.
distribution pipelines for the Daliao River industrial water supply; and improvements to
existing water treatment plants.
4.   Water Pollution Control: procurement of equipment and instruments for environmental
pollution monitoring, and a mobile laboratory and equipment for water quality monitoring
work.
5.   Shenyang Urban Trans2ort:
a. Improvement works for about 44 km. of arterial road corridors through limited pavement
widening, geometric changes, signalization at intersections, separation of motorized and non-
motorized traffic flows and the purchase of road safety equipment;
b. procurement of maintenance and repair equipment for the bus and trolley-bus major depots
and garages; and improving operation management for bus routing and scheduling,
maintenance and financial control; and
c. procurement of road maintenance and road safety (line marking and signing) equipment and
the implementation of a computerized road maintenance system.
6.   Project Support Technical Assistance (Engineering-related):
a. Advising on project management and construction supervision for both the water and
transport components.
b. Preparation of a second phase project which will focus on water pollution abatement.
7.   CaDacitv Building Technical Assistance (Institution-related):
a. Providing to the 3 water supply companies technical experts to advise on management of
water supply operations, including enforcement of water regulations, improving quality of



- 56 -                                Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
system records, detection of leakage, assessment and reduction of unaccounted-for water,
improvement of meter repair and waterworks maintenance; and of financial experts to advise
on the keeping of an appropriate public utility form of accounting system, financial planning
for the companies, and pricing requirements designed in conjunction with "b." above.
b. Providing technical experts to public transport companies in Shenyang to advise and train
the staff on measures to improve public transport operations through better route planning,
vehicle maintenance, and rationalizing public transport fares.
c. Providing technical experts for strengthening traffic regulations and their enforcement,
introducing effective measures to reduce accidents, and initiating public education program
with the Public Security Bureau.
d. Training to staff of the project offices, the Bureau of Urban Construction, and the 3 water
supply companies (see details in Annex 15).
8.    Policy Development Technical Assistance (Institution-related):
a. Conducting a study on pricing and other measures to achieve efficient use of water
resources in the Hun/Taizi River basins, and to study appropriate policies and rate structurcs
for water supply in the cities of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou.
b. Studying effective methods for industrial pollution reduction through process modification,
recycling and other measures that can also achieve production efficiency; source treatment in
difficult industrial sectors, and strengthening of the environmental protection laws and
regulations.



CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate (in Y million)                                                     ss: - .2
A. SHENYANG WATER
------1990-----      ------199 ------      ------1992 ------     ------1993 ------     ------1994 ------     ------1995 ------     ------TOTAL------
DAHUOPANO SCHEME           Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Formign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Local Formign  Total   Local Forcign  Total    Local Forctn  Total
(WB financed)              Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y       Y      Y       Y       Y      Y
Civil Works
Raw Water Transnission
Pipe material            0.00   0.00   0.00   3.95  36.54  40.49    3.95  36.54  40.49   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00         7 90  73 08  80 98
Pipeconstruction          3.90   i..26  10.16  12.10   7.31   1941   36.30  21.14  57.44  12.10   7.31   1941   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   000   0 O         6440  4202  10b42
Distribution Pipework
Pipe material            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.40   3.92   4 32   0.40   3.76   4.16   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0 0   0a00            0 80   7 67   8 47
Pipe construction        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.96   2.87   7.83   4.97   2.92   7.89   4.97   2.92   7.89   0 00   0 00   0 00    14 90   872 n             3o2
Land Acquisition            0.00   0.00   0.00   7.24   0.00   7.24   7 24   0.00   7.24   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   000   0 00   0 00   0 00    14 48   0 00   14 48
Operation Veicles & Equip.    0 00   0.00  000   0.00   1.31   1.31   0.00   2.61   2.61   000   000   000   000   000   000   0 00   0.00 0.00                0 00   3 92   3 92
Design&BidDocs              0.04   0.67   0.71   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   000   000   000             004   067   071
Project Management & Super.   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.07   0.09   0.06   0.26   0.32   0.06   0.26   0 32   0.05   0.26   0.31   0 03   0 0    0 08       0 22   0 90   1 12
Advisors toWaterCo.         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.52   0.52   0.00   0.52   0 52   000   0.00   000   000   000   000               000    104    104
TOTALBASECOST(1990)    3.94   6.93  10.87  23.71  49.14  72.85  52.91  67.70  120.61  17.13  11.01  28.14   502   3.18   820   003   005   0.08   10274  13803  24076
PhvsicalCort.         10%   0.39   0.69   1.09   2.37   4.91   7.28    5.29   6.77  12.06   1.71   1.10   2.81   '3.50   0.32   0.82   000   001   001    1027   1380  2408
TBC. Physical Cowt.         4.33   7.63   11.96  26.08  54.05  S0.13  58.20  74.47  132.67  18.84  12.12  30.96   5.52   3.50   9.02   003   006   009   11301  151.83 26484
Price Contingency           0.00   0.00   0.00   2.61   5.41   8.01   10.94  14.00  24.94   4.66   3.00   7.66   1.71   1.09   2.80   0.01   0.02   0 03    19 93  23 St  43 44
TOTALCOST                   4.33   7.63   11.96  28.69  59.46  88.15  69.14  88.47 157.62  23.50  15.11  38.62   7.23   4.59   11.82   005   0.08   012   132.94 175 34 308 28
Inflation Rate              6.0%   6.0%          10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%           S.0%  S.00%           5.0%  5.00%          5.0%  5.00%
Escalation Factor          1.000  1.000          1.100  1.100          1.188  1.18          1.247  1.247          1.310  1.310         1.375  1.375                                       _
------ 199D------    ------1991 ---- --    ------192------       ------ 1993------     -- ----1994-----            1995 ------     ------TOTAL------
DAHUOFANO SCHEME           Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Local Formign  Total  Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign  Toal
(SCIf ftnanced)            Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y       Y      Y       Y       Y      Y
Civil Works
Intake                     5.94   0.00   5.94   5.20   0.00   5.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                                  11.14   000   11 14
Treatment Works           28.85   0.00  28.85  25.24   0.00  25.24   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   0.00                                                   54.09   0.00  54.09
GravityConduit             5.96   0.00   5.96   5.21   0.00   5.21   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                                   11.17   0.00   11 17
Distribution Center        3.49   0.00   3.49   3.05   0.00   3.05   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                                   6.54   0 OD   6.54
Distribution network      11.87   0.00   11.87  17.81   0.00  17.81  17.81   0.00   17.81  26.12   0.00  26.12                                                7361    000   7361
M & E Works
Treatment Works           10.76  12.21  22.97  19.97  10.86  30.83   0.00   0.00   0000   000    000   0.00                                                   30 72  23 07  538 0
Distribution Center        1.48   0.00   1.48   2.75   0.00   2.75   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                                   4 24   0 00   4 24
TOTAL BASECOST (1990)   68.35  12.21  80.56  79.23  10.86  90.09  17.81   0.00  17.81  26.12   0.00  26.12                                                     191.51   2307  21458
Physical Coot.        10%   6.83    1.22   8.06   7.92   1.09   9.01    1.78   0.00   1.78   2.61   0.00   2.61                                                 19 15   2 31  2146
TBC + Pbysical Coat.       75.18  13.44  88.62  87.16  11.94  99.10   19.59   0.00  19.59  28.73   0.00  28.73                                                 21066  253S  23604
Price Contingency           0.00   0.00   0.00   8.72   1.19   9.91    3.68   0.00   3.68   7.11   0.00   7.11                                                  1951    1 19  20.7D
TOTAL COST                 75.18  13.44  88.62  95.87  13.14 109.01   23.27   0.00  23.27  35.84   0.00  35.84                                                 230.16  2657  25674
Inflation Rate              6.0%   6.0%          10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%           5.0%  5.00%           5.0%  5.00%           5.0%  5.00%
Escalation Factor          1.000  1.000          1.100  1.100          1.188  1.18          1.247  1.247          1.310  1.310         1.375  1.375
00



B. FUXDI WATER SUPPLY
---1990--             ----1991 ------    ------ 1992--        ------1993 ------    ------ 1994               1995                 TOTAL-
Local Foreign Total  Lca Poreign Total  Local Foeign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total    Local Foregn Toal
NAODEHAI SCHEME            Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y     Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y
Civil Woik
Source Worb              0.00   0.00   0.00   2.47   0.52   2.99   4.92   2.09   7.01   3.69   2.09   5.78   1.22   1.72   2.94   0.00   0.00   0.00    12.30   642  3t 72
Water Pipelines
Pipe material           0.00   0.00   0.00   1.50  10.44  11.94   1.50  15.66  17.16   0.50   3.50   4.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00  o0o   0.00   000      3.50  29.60  33 10
PipeCoaluctlos          0.00   0.00   0.00   1.08   0.S2   1.60   3.80   1.83   5.63   3.26   1.57   4.83   3.26   1.57   483   00D   0.00   0.00    11.40   548  1638
TreeatnwWork             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.40   0.26   0.66   1.96   1.25   3.21   1.96   1.25   3.21   1.88   1.20   3.08   0000   000   000    6.20   3.97  10 17
NpiugSstation            o.O   0.00   0.00   0.75   0.05   0.80   3.00   0.42   3.42   3.0D   0.42   3.42   0.75   0.10   0.15   0.00   000   0.00    7.50   099   149
M & E Work
Source worb              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.03   1.72   2.75   1.03   1.72   2.75   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   2 06   3.45   5 51
TreatmentWor             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0D   0.00   0.00   0.92   1.46   2.38   0.92   1.51   2.43   0.00    00   oa0o00   000   0.00 o.0o      184   2.98   482
OtherWorka               0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.90   4.96   5.86   0.90   4.96   5.86   o.o0   0.00   o.0o   000   000   0.00      1.80   992  11 72
Land AcqedUon              5.96   0.00   5.96   2.31   0.00   1.31   0.80   0.00   0.80 o.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00    8.07   0 0o   8.07
OperationVecles h&Equip.    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.31   1.31   0.00   2.61   2.61   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.0D   o.o0   000   000   0.00    o.0o   3.92   3 92
Deagn & Bid Does           0.04   0.70   0.74   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    004   0 70   0.74
ProjectMaagemcat&Super.   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.07   0.08   0.06   0.26   0.32   0.06   0.26   0.32   0.06   0.21   0.27   0.03   0.05   008     0.22   086   los
Advian to WatcrCo.         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.52   0.52   0.00   0.47   0.47   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.0o   000    0.0D   099   099
TOTAL BASECOST (1990)    5.99   0.70   6.70   7.52  13.13  20.70  13.89  32.73  51.67  15.32  17.75  33.07   7.17   4.SD  11.97   0.03   0.05   0.08    54.92  69g26 124.13
PbyaicalCost.       10%   0.60   0.07   0.67   0.75   1.32   2.07   1.89   3.28   5.17   1.53   1.77   3.31   0.72   0.48   1.20   0.00   0.01   0.01    5.49   6.93  12.42
TBC+PbysiealCoat.          6.59   0.77   7.36   8.27  14.49  22.76  20.78  36.06  36.14  16.85  19.52  36.37   7.89   5.28  13.17   0.03   006   0.09    60.42  76.19 136 60
PriceContingency           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.83   1.45   2.28   3.91   6.78  10.69   4.17   4.83   9.00   2.44   1.64   4.08   0.01   0.02   0.03    11.36  14.72  2607
TOTALCOST                  6.59   0.77   7.36   9.10  15.94  2S.04  24.69  42.84  67.52  21.02  24.35  45.37  10.33   6.92  17.25   0.05   0.08   0.12   71.78  90.90 162.68
bflation Rate              6.0%   6.0%         10.0%  10.0%          8.0%   8.0%          5.0%  5.00%         5.0%  5.00%          5.0%  5.00s
Escalation Factor         1.000   000          1. 100  1.100        1.188  1.188         1.247  1.247        1.310  1.310         1.375  1.375
cs
OD
I
_ * __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



C. YVNGKOU WATER SUPPLY
---19902-                                                                             994--                                --TOTAL----
Locial Foreig  Towl  Loca  oeign TOl  Loa Forig  TOW   Local Foip  Total ocal Foreign TOa   Lal Forig  Total    Loc  Fori   Toal
DALIAO SCHEME             Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y     Y      Y      Y      Y      Y     Y      Y      Y      Y      Y     Y        Y      Y      Y
civil works
Inta                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.96   0.78   1.74   2.40   L.9"   4.38   1.44   1.20   2.64  O0O.   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00    4.80   3.97   8.77
Tranmislon P til
Pipe Matda             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10   5.32   5.42   0.10   5.32   5.42   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0    o00    0.00   0.0D  0.00    0.20  10.65  10.85
PFi Ca_utm o           0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.34   0.26   0.60   1.21   0.94   2.15   1.21   0.94   2.15   0.34   0.26   0.60   0.00 0o0   0oo.     3.10   2.40   s.50
Tieanb.t Wowb (mod)      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.03   0.05   J.os0  0.74   1.20   1.94   0.03   0.05   0.08   o.00   0.00   0D   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.80   1.31   2.11
Dignbultm Pipework
Pipetateal             0.00   0.00   O.O   0.15   5.01   5.16   0.15   4.96   S.11   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    030   9.97  10.27
PFipC _auctlwa         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.42   1.57   3.99   4.04   2.61   6.65   2.74   1.77   4.51   o00    0.00   000   9.20   5.f9  15.15
Land Ac4qpditl            0.00   0.00   0.00   2.37   o.o0   2.37   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00   o.o0    2.37   0 00   2.37
U & E Wa*2
bake                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   3.20   2.66   5.86   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  3 20   2.66   5 86
Treatmna Wosk (nod)      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.60   1.31   2.91   O.O0   o.o0   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  1.60   1.31   2.91
Control & h_tunesatio.    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.40   2.66   3.06   0.40   2.66   3.06   O.O   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.80   5.32   6.12
SANDAOLINO/ZHOU JIA SCHEME
Civil Wott
Trnmnialo Pipelint
Pipe aUil              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.05   1.93   I.9n8  0.05   1.91   2.03   0.00   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00  0o00   0.00   0.00    0.10   3 92   4.02
PipeCoenictieo         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.07   0.05   0.12   0.64   0.47   1.11   0.57   0.42   0.99   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.OD    1.28   0.94   2.22
Land Acquiad              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.O0   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.OD   0.00   O.OD    0.00   0.00   0 00
Opertin Veices & Equip.   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.31   1.31   0.00   2.61   2.61   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00   0.00    o.ao   3.92   3.92
Desig & Bid Does          0.04   0.67   0.71   0.00   0.00   o.oo   O.O   O.O   0.00   O.O   0.00   o.oo   0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00   0.00  0oo0   0.04   0 67   0.71
Project Mahgement  super.  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.07   0.01   0.06   0.37   0.43   0.06   0.31   0.37   0.06   0.31   0.37   0.03   0.05   0.0    0.22   1.11   1 33
Adviso to Water Co.       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.O   0.00   0.68   0.68   0.00   0.63   0.63   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    O.O   1.31   1.33
TOTALBASECOST(1990)    0.04   0.67   0.71   4.08  14.79  18.87  12.97  28.71  41.68   7.75   8.82  16.57   3.14   2.35   5.49   00.3   0.05   0.08    28.01  55.39  83.40
Pbysical Cot.       10%   0.00   0.07   0.07   0.41   1.48   1.89   1.30   2.87   4.17   0.78   0.88   1.66   0.31   0.23   0.55   0.00   0.01   0.01    2.80   5.S4   1.34
TBC * Physil Coat.        0.04   0.74   0.78   4.49  16.27  20.76  14.27  3.5S8  45.85   8.53   9.70  18.23   3.45   2.58   6.04   0.03   0.06   0.09   30.83  60.93  91.74
Price Contingency         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.45   1.63   2.08   2.68   5.94   8.62   2.11   2.40   4.51   1.07   0.80   1.17   0.01   0.02   0.03    6.32  10.79  17.11
TOTAL COST                0.04   0.74   0.78   4.94  17.90  22.83  16.95  37.52  54.47  10.63  12.10  22.74   4.52   3.38   7.91   0.05   0.08   0.12   37.13  71 72 101.85
filtion Rate              6.0%   6.0%         10.0%  10.0%          8.0%   S.0%         5.0%  5.00%          5.0%  s.00%         5.0%  5.00%
Escalation Factor        1.000  1.O00         1.100  1.100         L.U   1.18t         1.247  1.247         1.310  1.310        1.375  1.375
00
P. -4
_l



D. SHENVYANG URBAN TRANSPORT
-    1990         --       1991 ------    ------1992------      ------1993------      ------1994------      ------199S------      ------TOTAL------
Local Foreign Tolal  Local Forcin  Total  Local Forcign  Total  Local Poreign Total  Local Porcign  Total  Local Poreign  Total    LOc  Foreign  Total
Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      'x     Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y        Y      Y       Y
Traffic Corridor Improemcnt   0.00   0.00   0.00   9.65   7.57   17.22   9.65   7.57  17.22   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    19.30  IS 14  34 44
Traffic Signals             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.45   2.35   2.80   0.45   2.35   2.30   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    00   0.00   0.00   0.00          0 90   4.70   S.60
Public Transport            0.00   0.00   0.00   6.39   5.79  12.13   1.11   7.93   9.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   000   0.00           7.50  13 73  21 23
Werkshop Equiment
Road Safety Meamues         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.25   1.25   0.00   0.34   0.34   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00          0.00   2.09   2.09
Road Maintene Eqipmnent   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.29   3.29   0.00   2.66   2.66   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   000   0.00   0.0D             0 00   5 95   5.95
TechntcalAssisanceand       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    1.20   1.20   0.09   2.14   2.23   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00         009   3.34   343
Training
TOTALBASECOST(1990)    0.00   0.0)   0.00  16.49  21.45  37.94  11.30  23.49  34.79   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    2779   44.94  72 73
PbysicalCont.        10%   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.65   2.15   3.79   1.13   2.35   3.43   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   000            27S   449   72?
TBC+PbysicalCoot.           0.00   0.00   0.00  1.14  23.60  41.74   12.43  25.U4  33.27   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   000    3057  4944  30.01
Price Contingency           0.00   0.00   0.00   1.31   2.36   4.17   2.34   4.36   7.19   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000          4.1S   722   1137
TOTAL COST                  0.00   0.00   0.00  19.95  25.96  45.91  14.77  30.70  45.46   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   0.00    34.72  56.66  91 38
Inflation Rate              6.0%   6.0%          10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   3.0%           5.0%  5.00%           5.0%  5.00%          5.0%  5.00%
Escalation Factor          1.000  1.000          1.100  1.100          1.183  1.188          1.247  1.247          1.310  1.310         1.375  1.375
E. GENERAL (WB fIiancod)
-     1990------      ------1991 ------    ------1992------      ------1993------      ------1994 ------     -     3-----1995------  ------TOTAL------
Local Poreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Forign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Poreign Total    Local Foreign  Total
Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y        Y      Y       Y
Technical Assistance
Pro)cctManagert(general)    0.00   0.00   000   0.06   0.37   0.43   0.05   0.11   0.16   0.05   0.10   0.15   0.05   0.10   0.15   0.05   010   015           026   079    1.04
Water Tatiff Study         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.07   1.46   1.53   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   0.00   0.00         0.07    1.46   1 53        1
Environsmental Resarch     0.00   O.OD   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.07   1.10   1.17   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    00   0.00   0.00   000   000            007    1 10   1.17         O
Preparation2ndProject      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12   2.01   2.13   0.12   2.04   2.16   0.03   1.62   1.70   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   000           0.32   5.66   5.9S 
Training                   0.00   0,00   0.0D   0.02   1.34   1.36   0.02   1.34   1.36   0.02   1.36   1.38   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000          0.06   4.04   4.30
EnvironentalMonitorEquip.   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.37   1.57   3.94   2.37   1.57   3.94   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00         4.74   3.13   7.87         1
TOTAL BASECOST (1990)    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.20   3.72   3.91   2 70   7.61  10.31   2.52   4.65   7.17   0.05   0.10   0.15   0.05   0.10   0.15             5.52  16.13  21.69
Physical Cont.        10%   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.37   0.39   0.27   0.76   1.03   0.25   0.46   0.72   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.01   0.02         0.5S   1.62   2.17
TBC+ Physical Coat.         000   0.00   0.00   0.22   4.09   4.31   2.97   S.37  13.34   2.77   5.11   7.38   0.06   0.11   0.17   0.06   0.11   0.17          6.07  17.80  23.86
Price Contingency           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.41   0.43   0.56   1.57   2.13   0.69   1.26   1.95   0.02   0.04   0.05   0.02   0.04   0.06          1.30   3 32   4.63
TOTALCOST                   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.24   4.50   4.74   3.53   9.94  13.47   3.46   6.37   9.83   0.07   0.15   0.22   0.03   0.16   0.23         7.37  21.12  23.49
Inflation Rate              6.0%   6.0%          10.0%  10.0%           S.0%   8.0%           5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%          50%   5.0%
Escalation Factor          1.000  1.000          3.100  1.100          1.18  1.1S          1.247  1.247          1.310  1.310         1.375  1.375
TOTAL PROJECT COST
-     1990------     ------1991 ------     ------1992------      ------1993------      ------1994-----       ------1995------      ------TOTAL------
Local Poreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Poreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Local Poreip  Total    Local Poreign  Total
(WB fnanced)                Y      Y       Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y        Y      Y      Y
Shenyang Water Supply       4.33   7.63   11.96  23.69  59.46  38.15  69.14  88.47  IS7.62  23.50  15.11  33.62   7.23   4.59  11.32   0.05   0.03   0.12   132.94 175.34 308.28
Fuxin Water Supply          6.59   0.77   7.36   9.10   15.94  25.04  24.69  42.84  67.52  21.02  24.35  45.37  10.33   6.92  17.25   0.05   0.08   0.12    71.78  90.90  162 68
Yingkou WaterSupply         0.04   0.74   0.78   4.94   17.90  22.83  16.95  37.52  54.47  10.63  12.10  22.74   4.52   3.38   7.91   0.05   0.08   0.12    37.13  71 72  10835
Shenyang Uban Transqort     0.00   0.00   0.00  19.95  25.96  45.91   14.77  30.70  45.46   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    34 72  56 66  91 38
General                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.24   4.50   4.74   3.53   9.94  13.47   3.46   6.37   9.83   0.07   0.15   0.22   0.03   0.16   023           7.37  21.12  28.49
TOTAL                    10.96   9.14  20.10  62.92  123.75 186.67  129.07 209.47 333.54  53.62  57.95  116.56  22.16  15.04  37.20   0.21   039   0.61   2S394 41574 69968
(Self financed)
Shenyang Water Supply      75.18   13.44  83.62  95.S7   13.14  109.01  23.27   0.00  23.27  35.84   0.00  35.84   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   230 16  26.57 25674
00
00



CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate (in US$ million)                                                  ussi = YS 22
A. SHENYANG WATER
------1990-                1991            ------1992------      ------ 1993 ------    ------1994 ------     ------1995 ------     -    TOTAL------
DAHUOPANO SCHEME           Loeal Fortign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Local Poreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total
(WB Manced)               USS    USS    USS    USS    USS         US $   US $ USS   USS    USS    USS        US $   USS   USS    US$   USS    US$             US$    US$   US$
Civil Works
Raw Water Transmission
Pipematenal              o.o0   o.0o   o.o0   0.76   7.00   7.76   0.76   7.00   7.76   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   000   000   000              1 si  14 00  15 51
Pipe coosiuction         0.75   1.20   1.95   2.32   1.40   3.72   6.95   4.05   1100   232    1.40   3.72   0.00   0.00   0.00   0000   0.00   000    1234   805  2039
Distribution Pipework
Pipe matceial            0.00    0.00   0.00   o.os   0.75   0.83   0.08   0.72   0.80   G.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   000   0.00   000           015    147    1 62
Pipeconadruction         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   0.00   0.95   0.55    1.50   0.95   0.56   1.51   0.95   0.56    1 51   0 00   0.00   0.00        2 85   1 67   4 52
Land Acquisition            0.00   0.00   0.00    1.39   0.00   1.39   1.39   0.00    1.39   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0a00   0 00        2 77   0 00   2 77
Operation Vhileks & Equip.    0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00   0.25   0.25   0.00   0.50   0.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0o00 0o00          0 00   0 75   0 75
Design & Bid Docs           0.01   0.13   0.14   0.00   o.oo 0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0.00  0.00   0.00 0.00 0000        00k    0 13   014
Project Maagent & Super.   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.05   0.06   0.01   0.05   0.06   0.01   0.05   0.06   0.01   0 01   0 02          0 04   0 17   0 22
Advism to Water Co.         0.00   0.C0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10   0.10   0.00   0.10   0.10   0.00   0.00  0o00 0o00   0 00 0o00 0o00   0 20   0 20
TOTAL BASECOST(1990)    0.75   1.33   2.08   4.54   9.41   13.96  10.14  12.97  23.11   3.28   2.11   5.39   0.96   0.61    1.57   001   001    002    1968  2644  46 12
Physical Coat.       10%   0.08   0.13   0.21   0.45   0.94   1.40   1.01   1.30   2.31   0.33   0.21   0.54   0.10   0.06   016   000   0.00   000              1.97   264   461
TBC- Physical Coot.         0.S3   1.46   2.29   5.00  10.35  15.3S   11.15  14.27  25.42   3.61   2.32   5.93   1.06   0.67   1.,73   0.01   0.01   002    21.65  2909   5074
PriceContingency            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.45   0.93    1.38   1.14   1.46   2.59   0.49   0.31   0.80   0.12   0.11   0.29   000   0.00   000          225   281    507
TOTALCOST                   0.83   1.46   2.29   5.45  11.29  16.73  12.29  15.72  28.01   4.10   2.63   6.73   1.24   0 73   2.02   0.01   0.01   0.02    23.90  31 90  5S 80
InflationRate               2.7%   2.7%           9.0%   9.0%           1.19   1.1%          2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
Escalation Factor          1.000  1.000          1.090  1.090          1.102  1.102          1.134  1.134          1.168  1.168         1.202   1 202
------1990------     ------1991 ------     ------1992 ------     ------1993 ------     ------ 1994 ------    ----1- 9195 ------    ------ TOTAL------
DAHUOFANO SCHEME           Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Tota   Local Poreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total
(self fianced)            USS   USS   USS   US    USS   us$ USS   U$SS   USS USS  $ USUSS USSS   US$0                    0 USS    USS   US$    USS            US$   USS   USS
Ci JI Works
,ntake                     1.14   0.00   1.14   1.00   0.00   1.00   0.00o  0.00   0.0    0.00   0.00   0.00                                                   213   0 00   213
Treatmet Worts             5.53   0 o0   5.53   4.84   0.00   4.84   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                                   10.36   0 00  10 36
Gavity Conduit             1.14   0.'00   1.14   1.00   0.00   1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                                   2 14   0 00   2 14
DistnbutionCenter          0.67   0.0C   0.67   0.53   0.00   0.58   o.0o    0o00   0.00 o.o0   0.00   0.00                                                    125   000    1 25
Ditibution etwork          2.27   0.0D   2.27   3.41   0.00   3.41   3.41   0.00   3.41   5.00   0.00   5.00                                                  14 10   000  14 10
M & E Works
Treatment Worb             2.06   2.34   4.40   3.83   2.08   5.91   0.00   0.00   o.0o    o.o0   0.00   0.00                                                  5 8    4 42  10 31
Distuibutbon Ccter         0.28   0.00   . 28   0.53   0.00   0.53   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00                                                   0 818   000   0 81
TOTALBASECOST(1990)    13.09   2.34  15.4t  15.18   2.08  17.26   3.41   0.00   3.41   5.00   0.0D   5.00                                                       3669   442  41 11
Physical Cool.        10%   1.31   0.23   1.54   1.52   0.21    1.73   0.34   0.00   0.34   0.50   0.00   0.50                                                   3 67   0 44   4 11
TBC + Physical Coat.       14.40   2.57  16.98  16.70   2.29  18.98   3.75   0.00   3.75   5.50   0.00   5.50                                                   40 36   4 86  45 22
Price Contigency            0.00   o.0o   0.00    1.50   0.21    1.71   0.38   0.00   0.38   0.74   0.00   0.74                                                 2 63   0 21   2 83
TOTAL COST                 14.40   2.57  16.98  18.30   2.49  20.69   4.14   0.00   4.14   6.24   0.00   6.24                                                   42 9    5 07  48 05
WnlatbioRate                2.7%   2.7%           9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%          2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%
Escalatbon Factor          1.000  1.000          1.090  1.090          1.102  1.102          1.134  1.134          1.168  1.16S         1.202  1202
la



B. FUXIN WATER SUPPLY
1990-              ------1991 ------    ------1992 ------   ------1993 ------    ------1994          ------1995------     ------ TOTAL -----
Local Forign Toul  Local Poreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Poreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local foreign Toal    Local Fofczgn Total
NAODEHAI SCHBEE          USt   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   US5   USt   USS   US$                    US$   US$   USS
Civil Work
sourceWo*c              o.0o   o.o0   o.o0   0.47   0.10   0.57   0.94   0.40   1.34   0.71   0.40   1.11   0.23   0.33   0.56   000   0.00   000    236   123   359
Water Pipelinca
PipeMatedial           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.29   2.00   2.29   0.29   3.00   3.29   0.10   0.67   0.77   0.00   0.00    00.C00   0.00   000    067   567   6.34
Pipe coentction        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.21   0.10   0.31   0.73   0.35   1.08   0.62   0,30   0.92   0.62   0.30   0.92   0.00   000   0.00    218   105   323
TreatmentWorks          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.08   0.05   0.13   0.38   0.24   0.62   0.38   0.24   0.62   0.36   0.23   059   0.00   0.00   0.00   1 19   076   1 95
Pumping Stions          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.14   0.01   0.15   0.57   0.08   0.65   0.57   0.08   0.65   0.14   0.02   0.16   0.00   0.00   000   144   019   163
M & hE Wor
Soufcewofks             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.20   0.33   0.53   0.20   0.33   0.53   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000    0.39   066   1 05
TatntWorkb              0.00   0.00   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.18   0.28   0.46   0.18   0.29   0.47   0.00   0.00   0.00   00   0.00   0.00    035   0.57   092
OthefWo,k               0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.17   0.95   1.12   0.17   0.95   1.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   000    034   190   224
Land Acquisition          1.14   0.00   1.14   0.25   0.00   0.25   0.15   0.00   0.1S   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.0o   ooD   0.00   0.00  0o00   1 55   000   1 55
OperationVebiclea&Equip.    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.25   0.25   0.00   0.30   0.30   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o   0.00  0o00   o.o  0o00  0o00    0.00   075   075
Deaign&BldDocs            0.01   0.13   0.14   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   000   0.00   0.00   0.00   000    0 01   0.13   014
Project Mangement & Super.  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.05   0.06   0.01   0.05   0.06   0.01   0.04   0.05   0.01   0.01   0.02    0.04   0 16   0 21
Advison toWaterCo.        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   o.o0   0.10   0.30   o.0o   0.09   0.09   o.o0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0 19   0 19
TOTAL BASECOST (1990)    1.I5   0.13   1.28   1.44   2.52   3.96   3.62   6.28   9.90   2.93   3.40   6.33   1.37   0.92   2.29   0.01   0.01   0.02   10.52  13 27  23.79
Physical Cant.      I0%  0.Q1   0.01   0.13   0.14   0.25   0.40   0.36   0.63   0.99   0.29   0.34   0.63   0.14   0.09   0.23   0.00   0.00   0.00    3.0s   1.33   2.38
TBC+ PhysicalCont.        1.26   0.15   1.41   1.58   2.78   4.36   3.98   6.91  10.89   3.23   3.74   6.97   1.51   1.01   2.52   0.01   0.01   0.02    11.57  14.59  2617
Price Cbmiagency          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.14   0.25   0.39   0.41   0.70   1.11   0.43   0.50   0.94   0.25   0.17   0.42   0.00   0.00   000  1.24   1.63   287
TOTALCOST                 1.26   0.15   1.41   1.73   3.03   4.75   4.39   7.61  12.00   3.66   4.24   7.91   1.76   1.18   2.95   0.01   0.01   0.02   12.81  1622  2904
Infbation Rate            2.7%   2.7%          9.0%   9.0%          1.1%   1.1%        2.95%  2.95%        2.95%  2.9S%         2.9S%  2.95%
Eacaltbie Factor         1.000  1.000         1.090  1.090         1.102  1.102        1.134  1.134        1.168  1.168         1.202  1202
0C
OD



C. YINGKOU WATER SUPPLY
----1990 ------     -----1991            ------1992-----     ------1993 ------   ------1994 ------    ------1995 ---        --TOTAL------
Local Poreign Total  Local Fofeign Tol  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Poteign Total  Local Foreig  Total    Local Foreign Total
DALIAO SCHEME            USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   US$   US$   us$   US$   US$   US$   US$   US$   USS   USS   USS   USS   US$    USS   USS   USS
Civil Wok.s
Intake                  0.o0   o.0o   0.00   0.18   0.15   0.33   0.46   0.38   0.84   0.28   0.23   0.51   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00  0 92   0 76   1 68
Trmisuion Pipeline
Pipe Material          0.00   0.0)   0.00   0.02   1.02   1.04   0.02   1.02   1.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   000   o000  o0o0   0.00    0.04   2 04   2 08
PipeCotmctoin          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.07   0.05   0.12   0.23   0.18   0.41   0.23   0.18   0.41   0.07   0.05   0.12   0.00   0.00 o.o0    0.59   046   1.05
Treatr tWozka(mod)      0.00   O.o0   o.0o   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.14   0.23   0.37   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    o.s   025   040
DIstio Pipewott
Pipe Material          0.00   O.0o   0.00   0.03   0.96   0.99   0.03   0.95   0.91   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   000   000   000    0.06   1 91   1 97
Pipe Conaction         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.46   0.30   0.76   0.77   0.50   1.27   0.52   0.34   0.86   0.00   o.o   0.00    1.76   114   2.90
Landi AcqdtiOn            o.0o   0.0ee   0.00   0.45   0.00   0.45   0.00   0.00    .    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.a0    045   0 00   0.45
M & E Wotk
Intk                    0.00   0.00   O.0O   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.61   0.51   1.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0    00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   o.o0    0.61   0.51   112
Treata Worka (mod)      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.o0   0.00   0.31   0.25   0.56   0.00   O.O0   0.00    0   0.00   0.00   0.    0.00   0.00    0.31   0 25   0 56
Control & bubmentation    0.00   O.    0.00   0.00)  0.00   0.00   0.08   0.51   0.59   0.08   0.51   0.59   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.15   102   1.17
SANDAOLINO/ZHOU JnA SCHEME
Civil Wotb
Traminialon Pipeline
Pip Mateita             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.37   0.38   0.01   0.38   0.39   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.02   0 75   077
Pipe Co.n,tlon         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.12   0.09   0.21   0.11   0.08   0.19   0.00   0.00   000    000  0.00   0.00    0.25   0 18   0.43
Land Acquitio             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    o.0o  0o00   0.00
Opecat Vlbicles & Equip.   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.25   0.25   0.00   o.so   0.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.75   0 75
Design& Bid Does          0.01   0.13   0.14   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00)  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   o.O   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.01   0.13   0 14
Project Magement & Super.  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.07   0.08   0.01   0.06   00.7   0.01   0.06   0.07   0.01   0.01   0.02    0.04   0.21   0.26
AdviorstoWaterCo.         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.c0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.13   0.13   0.00   0.12   0.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.0o   0.00    o.o0   0.25   0.25
TOTAL BASECOST (1990)    0.01   0.13   0.14   0.78   2.83   3.61   2.48   5.50   7.98   1.48   1.69   3.17   0.60   0.45   1.05   0.01   0.01   0.02    5.37  10.61  1591
PbydcalCot.         10%  0.00   0.01   0.01   0.08   0.28   0.36   0.25   0.55   0.80   0.15   0.17   0.32   0.06   0.05   0.11   0.00   O.o0   0.00    0 54   i.06   1.60
TBC+PhysicalCoat.         0.01   0.14   0.15   0.86   3.12   3.91   2.73   6.05   8.78   1.63   1.86   3.49   0.66   0.50   1.16   0.01   0.01   0.02    590  11.67  17.57
Price Contgency           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.08   0.28   0.36   0.28   0.62   0.90   0.22   0.25   0.47   0.11   0.08   0.19   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.69   1.23   1.92
TOTAL COST                0.01   0.14   0.15   0.94   3.40   4.33   3.01   6.67   9.68   1.85   2.11   3.96   0.77   0.58   1.35   0.01   0.01   0.02    659  12.91  19.50
biflation Rate            2.7%   2.7%          9.0%   9.0%          1.1%   1.1%        2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.9S%        2.95%  2.95%
Escalation Factor        1.000  1.000         10    1.090          1.102  1.102        1.134  1.134        1.168  1.168         1. 202  1.202
00
V-   .
_l



D SHENYANG URBAN TRANSPORT
--1990-----         ------ 1991 -----     ---1992------         ------1993 ------     ------1994 ------     ------1995 ----       ----- TOTAL ------
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Poreign  ToLal   Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total
USS   USS   US$     US$     US$        USS        UUS US$                                    UUSSUus  USS   USS   US$    US$    USS USs  us$   US$   uSS
Traffic Corrldor bnprovement   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.85   1.45   3.30   1.S5   1.45   3.30   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 0o00   0.00 0o00   0 00   0 00          3 '0   2 90   6 60
Traffic Sigpala             0.00   o.0o    0.00   0.09   0.45   0.54   0.09   0.45   0.54   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0.00   0 00   0 00        017   0 90   1 07
Public Transpott            0.00   0.00   0.00   1.22   1.11   2.33   0.21    1.52   1.73   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   0 00   000   0 00   0 00   0 00         1 44   2 f3   4 07
Woitabop Equipmnat
Road Safety Measwes         0.00   000 0.00   0.00   0.24   0.24   0.00   0.16   0.16   0.00   0.00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00            0 00   0 40   0 40
RoadMaintenance Equipment   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.63   0.63   0.00   0.51   0S    0.00   000   0.00   000   0.00   000   000   000   000                0 00    1 14   1 14
Tchcal Assistance and       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.23   0.23   0.02   0.41   0.43   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00  0o00 0o00 0o00   0 00               0 02   0 64   0 66
Training
TOTALBASECOST (1990)    0.00   0.00   0.00   3.16   4.11   7.27   2.16   4.50   6.66   0.00   000   000   000   0.00   000   000   000   000                    5 32   8e1   1393
PhyuicalCont.        10%   0.00   0.00   000   0.32   0.41   0.73   022   0.45   067   0.00   00G    000   000   000   000   0t00   000   000                   053   066    1 39
TBC * Physical Coat.        0.00   0.00   0.00   3.47   4.52   8.00   2.38   4.95   7.33   0 00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   00 o        00 o   0 00 0o00 o o86   9 47  IS 33
Pnce Coatingency            0.00   0.00   0 00   0.31   0.41   0.72   0.24   0.50   0 75   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   0.00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00         0 S6   0 91    1 4'
TOTALCOST                   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.79   4.93   8.72   2.62   545   808   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   000   000   000   000   000                 6 41   10 '8  1679
Inflation Rate              2.7%   2.7%           9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%          295%  2.95%          2.95%  295%           295%  295%
Escalation Factor          1.000  1.000          1.090  1.090          1 102  1.102          1 134  1.134         1 168  1.168          1.202  1.202
E GENERAL (WB financed)
------1990------     ------1991 ------     ------1992 ------     ------1993 ------     ------1994 ------     ------1995 ------     ------TOTAL------
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Fomign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreagn  Total    Local Forejan  Total
USS    US$           u$   U$   USS   U$   u$   USS   USS   US   US                            USS   USS    USS    USS    USS        1S)   USS   USS
Technical Asaistance
Project Managemt (general)   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.07   0.08   0.01   0.02   0.03   0.01   0.02   0 03   0 01   0 02   0 03   0.01   0.02   0.03       0 05   0 15   0 20
WaterTariff Study          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.28   0.29   0.00   0.00   0.00   C00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   000            001   028   029
Enviromnental Retarch     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.21   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.00   000 0a00   0 00   0.00  0o00 0o00                0 01   0 21   0 22
Peparation 2nd Project    0.00   0.00  0o00   0.02   0.39   0.41   0.02   0.39   0.41   0 02   0.31   0 33   0 00   0.00   0.00   000   0 00   000             0 06   1 09   1 15
Trsining                   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.26   0.26   0.00   0.26   0.26   0.00   0.26   0.26   0 00   0 00   0 00   0.00   000 0a00            0 01   0 77   0 79
Environnertal Monitor Equip.   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.45   0.30   0.75   0.45   0.30   0.75   0.00   0.00   0 00   0.00   0 00   0.00      0 91   0 60   1.51
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.04   0.71   0.75   0.52   1.46   1.97   0.48   0.89   1.37   001   0.02   003   001   002   003                106    3 10   4 16
PhysicalCoat.        10%   o.0o   0.00   000   0.00   0.07   0.07   005   0.15   0.20   0.05   0.09   014   0.00   0.00   000   000   000 0o00                  0      031   042
TBC + Physical Coat.        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.04   0.78   0.82   0.57   1.60   2.17   0.53   0.98   1 51   0.01   0.02   0 03   0 01   0 02   0 03         1 16   3 41   4 57
PnceComtingency             0.00   o.o0    000   o.o    0.07   0.07   0.06   0.16   0.22   0.07   0.13   0.20   000   000   001    000   000   001              014   037   051
TOTALCOST                   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.05   0.85   0.90   0.63   1.77   2.39   060    1.11   1.71   0.01   0.03   004   001    0.03   004           1 30   378   50S
Inl.atniq Rate              2.7%   2.7%           9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%          2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2 95%          2.95%  2 95%
Etcaliton Factor           1.000  1.000          1.090  1.090          1.102  1.102          1.134  1.134         1.168  1.168          1 202   1 202
TOTAL PROJECT COST
- - - -1990 ------   -     1---- 1991 ------  ------ 1992 ------  ------ 1993 ------   ------ 1994 ------    -     1---- 1995 ------  ------ TOTAL -----
Local Poreig,n Total   Local Foreign Total  Local Forcign Total   Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local ForeiRn  Total    Local Fortttn  Total
(WB financed)              USS    USS            USS   US$   US$ USS                    S    USS   USS$   USSs    USS UUSS   USS   USS   USS   USS             USS    USS    USS
Stienyang WaterSupply       0.83    1.46   2.29   5.45  11.29  16.73  12.29  15.72  28.01   4.10   2.63   6.73    124   078    202   001    001    002    2390   3190  ss880
Fuxin Water Supply          1.26   0.15   1.41   1.73   3.03   4.75   4.39   7.61  12.00   3.66   4.24   7.91    176   1.18   2.95   001    001   002    1281   1622  2904
Yingkou WaterSupply         001    0.14   015   0.94   3.40   4.33   3.01   667   9.68   1.85   2.11   3.96   077   0.58    135   001   0.01   002              659   1291   1950
ShenyangUiUraansTort        0.00   0.00   000    3.79   4.93   8.72   2.62   5.45   8.08   000   0.00   0.00   000   000   000   000   0t00   000               641   1038   1679
General                     0.00   000   000   005   0.85   090    0.63   1.77   2.39   0.60   1.11   1.71   001    0.03   004   001    0 03   004               1 30   378    5 08
TOTAL                     2.10   1.75   385   11.94  23.49  3544   2294  37.22  60.16  1021   1010  2031    379   257    635   004   001   010    S10 o              S20  126 1
ISelf financed)
Sh.inyang Water Supply     14 40   2 57  16.98  18 20   2.49  20 69   4 14   0.00   4 14   6.24   0.00   6 24   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0 00)   000    42 98   s0   4X 0(5 13
00
0_
00



- 65 -                                                                Annex 8
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Estimate of Consultant Requirements
Staff-months
Total        19S9        1990        1991       1992        1993          1994
Loc  For  Loc  For  Lei  Fot  Loc  Por  Loc  For  Loc   For   Loc   For
Ui4ATER         DesiRn           I coutr pack pipe miat        20    6
& Bld            (4 ections) (ICB)
Documents       4 contr pack pipe lay          20    9
(2 for SY, I each for
Fuxin and Yingkou) (ICB)
2 contr pack pipe lay (LCB)    10
3 contr pack equip (ICB)      10   10
3 contracts structures (ICB)   5   10
3 contracts structures (LCB)   5
I contract vehicles (lCB)      5
Subtotal            70   35   21   11   49   24
Bid             17 contract packages           S0    0
Evaluation
Subtotal            S0    0                 20    0   20    0    10    0
Construction    contracts for pipe laying    600    18
Supervision     contracts for structures     384    18
Subtotal           984   36                            ISO    8  300    10   300       10   234       8
TOTAL             1104   71   21    11   69   24  170         8  310   10   300        10   234       8
TRANSPORT Design                 2 contr. corr. improve (LCB)    20    6
2 contract pack. equipment     6    3
(3 contracta)
Subtotal            26    9    8    3   18    6
Bid             4 contract packages            12    0
Evaluation
Subtotal            12    0                  6    0    6    0
Construction    2 contracts                   60    6
Supmrvision
Subtotal            60    6                            30     3   30    3
TOTAL               98    15    8    3   24    6   36    3   30    3
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                         TOTAL              200  12                              30   2  60   4   60   4   50   2
OTHERS          Water tanff study                              60    18                                       60    18
Environtal pollution abatement research       60    18                                        60    18
Advisors to Water Companies                         36                                              18            18
Preparation 2nd phase project                270   70                             60    10  110   30    100    30
Training                                            30                                   8          44             8
TOTAL              390  172    0       0    0     0   60    18  230   98   100    56
TOTALREQU1REMENT   1792  270   29    14   93   30  296   31  630   115   460                   70   284      10



- 66  -                                           Annex 9
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Management Organization
Uaoning Urban Conriruct-ici
Leadw hip Group
Lbming Prof                  Coordlm9fl            Shenyang         Fuxin            Yingkou
01ES                       Comnmittee             Coneruction      A unxniCtn      Consructk|
Caummiuion      CoAnmissaon      Commision
___-                                            l                                 I 
2 Dept Direckwor
I Chief ingineer
I Chief Economis
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ __I   I
Pro~sct  Proect  Financil             Training      ShanyaNgFnYlku
Cev.         Mgt.          & Economic    Secretauiat   iOvulonl  | Urban PWater                         Water
OMulon       Cbidiion       Clvidion                              l    om                 i   Ollb       Proet Om"
|w te P | Urmn TnMpowel
| Ollic | | ~~Un it



- 67 -                          Annex 10
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Contract Packaging (in bae prices)
$1 = RMB Y5.22
Esimated Cost
Pack- Procure  Sect       Decription                Local   Foreign    Total    Total
age   Method                                     RMB mill USS mill RMB mill USS mil
I    ICB            Pipe Material
I  Shenyang Supply (thru Fushun)     1.0       6.2     33.4      6.4
2  Shenyang Supply (remainder)       6.9       8.1     49.2       9.4
3  Shenyang Distribution             0.8       1.5      8.6       1.7
4   Fuxin Supply                      2.8      5.1     29.4       5.6
5  Fuxin Distribution                0.7       0.9      S.4       1.0
6  Yingkou Supply                    0.3       2.0     10.7       2.1
7  Yingkou Distribution              0.3       1.5      8.1       1.6
Total                         12.8     25.3    144.9      27.8
2    IC8          Fuxin Intake and                  3.9       1.3     10.7      2.0
Treatment Works Equipment
3    [CB          Yingkou Intake and                4.8      0.6       7.9      1.5
Treatment Works Equipment
4    ICB          Yingkou Control and               0.8      0.8       5.0       1.0
Instrumentation
5    lCB          Operation Vehicles & Equipment    0.0      2.3      12.0      2.3
6    ICB          Shenyang Supply Pipe constr.     26.7      3.1      42.9      8.2
(thru Fushun)
7    ICB          Shenyang Supply Pipe constr.     33.8      3.9      54.2     10.4
(remainder in 3 sections)
8    ICB          Fuxin Supply Pipe constr.        11.4       1.1     17.1      3.3
(in 3 sections)
9    ICB          Fuxin Water Headworks constr.    12.3       1.3     19.1      3.7
10   ICB           Fuxin Water treatment Plant       6.2      0.8      10A       2.0
comntruction
11   ICB           Yingkou Supply Pipe constr.       4.4      0.5      7.0       1.3
(2 sections)
12   ICB           Yingkou Water Intake Works        4.8      0.6       7.9      1.S
13   lCB           Equipment for Road Maintenance    7.5      4.8      32.6      6.2
and Public Transport Workshops
14    LCB          Fuxin Booster Pump stations       7.5      0.2       8.5      1.6
construction
15    LCB          Fuxin Power Transmission line     1.8      2.0      12.2      2.3
16    LCB          Yingkou Distribution Pipe         9.2      0.9      13.9      2.7
construction
17    LCB          Yingkou Water Treatment Plant     0.8      0.2       1.8      0.4
modification works
18    LCB          Shenyang Distribution Pipe       14.9      1.7      23.8      4.6
construetion (in 6 sects)
19    LCB          Improve Road Corridor (4 sects)   7.3      1.1      13.0      2.5
20    LCB          Improve Road Corridor (6 sects)  12.0       1.8     21.4      4.1
21    ICe          Traffic Signals                   0.9      0.9       S.6      1.1
22  ICB & LIB      Mders. instruments and misc.      0.0      0.5       2.6      0.5
equipment
23  Force          Pipeline across Hun River         3.9       1.2     10.2      1.9
A/C
24    ICB          Environment Monitor Equip.        0.5      0.7       4.1      0.8
TOTAL                        188.2     57.6    488.8      93.6



- 68 -                                         Annex 11
CIIINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTf
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Bank         Year and             DISBURSEMENT                   DISBURSEMENT PROFIL.E
Fiscal       Semester         Semester       Cumulative           China's           Project's
Year         Finding                                             (General)
1992'       31-1)ec-91          7.0             7.0                 6.9%              9.0%
30-Jun-92          7.8             14.8                16.0%             19.0%
1993        31-D-ec-92          10.1           24.9                 31.0%             32.0%
30-Jun-93          12.4           37.3                 48.0%             48.0%
1994        31-Dec-93           10.2           47.5                 61.0%             61.0%
30-Jun-94           7.7           55.2                 69.0%             71.0%
1995        31-Dec-94           7.0            62.2                 76.0%             80.0%
30-Jun-95          6.3            685                  83.0%             88.0%
1996        31-Dec-95           6.2            74.7                 89.0%             96.0%
30-Jun-96          3.1            77.8                 94.0%            100.0%
1997        31-Dec-96                                              100.0%
I     Includes the initial disbursement of $5.2 million for the Special Account.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Resettlement Plan
1.    The liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO) and the various project offices of
Shenyang, Fuxn and Yingkou have prepared the preliminary design for the project, which includes land acquisition and
resettlement. This has been approved by the Construction Commissions of Liaoning and the three municipalities. Full
detailed surveys of the exact areas required by each contract and a head count of the population to be resettled have
been conducted. The detailed surveys have been submitted to the Urban Planning Bureaus of the three municipal
governments for approval. The population in the affected areas has been frozen to avoid any further in-migration.
2.    For Shenyang and Yingkou all the land to be permanently acquired has been secured. Land for the headworks,
pumping stations and treatment plant, and the resettlement of a small number of persons in Fuxin are under
negotiations, and no difficulties are envisaged. The remaining and bulk of the land required by the project would be
for the construction of the transmission pipelines, and would involve the use of agricultural land. It is planned to acquire
the land for these on a temporary basis to be returned to the farmers after the pipes are laid and buried underground.
While the actual disruption to farming activities on the used land would be for about one growing season, it is envisaged
cash compensation of up to three years of the value of crops would have to be paid to allow for loss of soil fertility from
disturbance of the topsoil for pipelaying. In addition special consideration will be given to the stripping and storage of
topsoil during construction to allow it to be restored later. In many cases the farmers have required that they be
engaged to do this work themselves in order to ensure preservation of quality of the topsoil.
3.    About 18 months prior to the actual need to use the land, the project offices will prepare a detailed plan for
resettlement of the population with information provided by relevant municipality bureaus on land available for housing
construction and housing units that can be supplied from housing enterprises. The time required for this process will
be about I month. The housing plan would estimate the number of housing units required. If all the necessary housing
units can be provided by housing enterprises, they would be purchased. The time for arranging and delivery of the
housing units will then be about 6 months, depending on the amount of housing units in stock. If all or some of the
necessary housing units are not available, they should be designed and constructed under the project. The time required
for this process is dependent upon the work scale, and estimated to be slightly longer than purchasing (about 9 months).
Therefore this would be on the critical path for the resettlement plan.
4.    With the housing and resettlement plan determined, the project offices will contact local district officials to discuss
implementation details of the plan. The time required for this would be about 0.5-1 month. The actual work of
arranging relocation of the residents would be done by the local district officials. They will negotiate with residents and
decide when the relocation would take place. This process may run over a period of 8-9 months, before residents in an
area are completely moved. The residents would be paid moving expenses (the amount may diminish, if moving is not
prompt) to encourage moving. When all the residents have moved out, the area will be demolished, a process which
takes about one month. The total time required for resettling occupants in an area is thus estimated to be 12-15
months.
5.    Detailed land acquisition and resettlement schedules are contained in the the project implementation schedule
in Annex 13, and is also shown below.
1991        1992         1993
Shenyang:   land leased               1,200 mu     1,200 mu     1,200 mu
persons resettled          300
Fuxin:      land purchased              294 mu
land leased                450 mu      450 mu       450 mu
persons resettled          65



-  70  -                                   Anox 12
Pag0 2 of 2
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Rwetdlenment Plan
Project Preli-
minary Design
(completed)
Approval of
Design
(completed)
Full Survey
of Areas
(completed)
Derm- nao                              Freezing
of Hous. Req.                          Official
(completed)                           Population
t Request to             Contact local                          Decision to
Purchase H.U.            Officials                              Construct
(I month)              (0.5-I month)                         Housing Units
.1l,oIf.   .                                   I                  _        I
Delivery of            Negotiations             Design of                  Land Aloc-
Housing Units          w. Residents           Housing Units                 cation
(2-11 months)          (8-9 months)            (2 months)                  (4 m )
Construct  
Housing Units
(6-8 months)
rmoving  to
Housing Units
(0.5-1 month)
Taeover
of Area
(I month)



-  71  -                                                       Annex 13
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INPRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Coact        Description                 Type      Year
Package                                            1989        1990         1991        1992         1993        1994         1995
_ JVwiAMu  3w~jAs9   fLwJA5O   5i04Asm 4naiM asI  rimuiasm
GENERAL (al 3 cities)
I Pipe Material                    ICBD         -8a-t .     ..    .A        . .............  --.-. C
5 Operrtioa Vebicles & Equipment    [CB                        B-- --R----A -.-S--SC
22 Meters. Iut. & ttisc. Equip.     Other                               D..-...   . s-a.-S     a
SHfENYANG WATER
6 Supply Pipe Contr. (tbzu Pushun)   ICB              n-....--      .AC-........ A........... ... CO--
7 Supply Pipe Constr. (remainder)    ICB              o...It..s- --AC ....................... CafC
IS Distribution Pipe Consr.         LCB                              ..-.-i-t--* ......AC ........... ....................... ...CM
23 Pipeline cros  Hum River         Other          Do ...CK
FUXIN WATER
2 Intake & T/W Equipment           ICB                  D 0..        .R-...B.    P-..S..        I... CON
S Pipeline Cotrution               ICB                  D..-A--C .. ............ .           ........... .........
9 Water Headwort Construction   ICB                DB.... R.. .. -..-C           t.
10 Water T/W Conauction             IC DR ............                     ............................ .. .......... CM
14 Booster Pump Station Coantuction   LCB            D             o. a...C------ ..................  .. e
15 Power Transmission Line          LCB              D-R C...-    C............... coN
YINGKOU WATER
3 Intae and T/W EquipmAent          CB                  D ................. A .-S- .---cuS
4 Control Instmnmentation          ICa                  D .................. A---,  F--S .-.-.- ICON
II Suppy Pipe Construction          ICB                D.....R.. ..B-AC   ... ............ ........... ... CO
12 Water Intake Construction       ICB   D----.- R-.... ... --AC ................                ...... CO
16 Distribtsion Pipe Construction   LCB                D----R---- -8-AC ....... ..................... CO
17 T/W Modification Works           LCB                             DtR 8.AC . ......... C -C
SHENVYANG TRANSPORT
13 Equipment for Road Maintenace &   CB                  D .R--...-. -          .v.  CaCo
Public Trnsport Workshop
21 Ttame Signals                    ICB                  D , ..-.....  ......        S-Cm
19 Improve Road Coffidor (4 ects.)    LCB                 D-R-B-AC .... CON
20 Impove Road Coffidor (6 sets.)    LCB                             D--R.... -A C....C
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Watef Study                                                          T P-AC- .    .... CON
Preparation Phase 2 Project                                        T-P-aC.
Advirsn to Water & Bus Co.                                         T-P-A- ...       ..... .........
Consultants fot Project Imp.                                         PA-........... - ...... .......
LAND ACQUI. & RESETTLEMENT
Shenyang  land leasd                                               1,200 mu    1,200 mu    1,200 mu
persaos fested                                                300
Puxin lnd pirchased                                                  294 mu
land leased                                                     450 mu      450 mu       45D mu
persons rstled                                                  65
Note: D= Contract document              A= Analysis and contract award              F= Manufacture
P= Prepare drawings             C= Construction/Conduct work                S= Shipping
R= Review                       1= Inallation                               T= Terms of Reference
B= Bidding Process               COM= Completion/Commission                 P= Proposals



- 72 -                                        Annex 14
Page 1 of 4
ChIINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Preparation of Second Stage Project
D)raft Terns of Reference
Background                                             discharges becomes a matter of serious concern. It is
envisaged that the project would provide supprt to
1.    'he Hun-Taizi River lBasin forms the heartland  enable legislation to be strengthened to causc reduttion
of Liaoning Province in north-east China. It has an area    in the discharge of toxic matters and heavy metals to
of 27,300 sq. km., which is less than one-fifth of the area  acceptable levels, and to lower effluent strengths to that
of the province, and approximately 12.5 million inhabit-    acceptable by municipal sewers. The legislation should ec
ants, or more than one-third of its population. L.iaoning  designed to encourage industries to accomplish lower
Province contributes significantly to China's heavy   pollution levels through process modification and imi-
industrial output, majoring in iron and steel, coal, power  provement, and to use pretreatment when this is inevita-
generation, petroleum and petrochemicals, metallurgy   ble.  A  financial mechanism  to provide funding to
and machinery. Most of this activity is based around the    industries for the construction of pretreatment facilitics
six urban centers in the Hun-Taizi River Basin: Shenyang,    is also planned. In addition a regional center for toxic
the provincial capital, Fushun, Benmi, Liaoyang, Anshan  and hazardous wastes is proposed to collect and treat, at
and Yingkou. The Basin is also an important agricultural    appropriate charges, difficult wastes from smaller indus-
area, with well-developed systems for surface water    tries where the construction of treatment facilities by the
irrigation. However, with shortages in fresh water supply,    industries would be difficult and would often not be
irrigation water supplies already include large proportions  economic.
of municipal and industrial wastewater effluent.
Institutions
2.    More than 80% of the water used in urban areas
is returned to the system as wastewater. About 60% of    5.    The Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau
the wastewater flow consists of industrial effluents. The  (LEPB), a department of the Liaoning Government, is
total amount of wastewater discharged from the six basin    responsible for the formulation of environmental policies,
cities is estimated to be about 2.4 million m3id in 1987    strategies and environmental standards for the province,
and projected to grow to 3.5 million m3/d in 1995 and 4.4    and for providing guidance to the municipal environmen-
million m3/d in 2000. In addition about 2.5 million m3/d    tal protection bureaus of the various municipalities in the
are discharged in 1987 independently by major industries,    province on these matters. Each municipality has an
with projected discharges of 3.1 million m3/d in 1995 and  environmental protection bureau which is responsible for
3.8 million m3Id in 2000. With virtual absence of treat-    environmental monitoring and enforcing of pollution
ment at the present, the pollution loads of these wastewa-    control laws and standards, with the authority to impose
ters are extremely high. Because of the increasing need  pollution charges and prosecute offenders. The planning,
for reuse of surface water resources due to the limited  construction and operation of urban services, including
availability of fresh water resources within the Hun-Taizi    environmental protection works, are carried out by city
River Basin, and the very high cost of diverting fresh  bureaus under the Construction Commission of each city
water from other basins where some surplus still exists,    which, in turn, receives guidance and direction from the
surface water quality is therefore of considerable concern.    LAaoning Construction Commission (LCC). Wastewater
management is presently carried out by a unit under the
3.    A study on the policies and strategies for man-    Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau under the
agement of the water resources in the Hun-Taizi River    Construction Commission of each city. Reorganization
Basin, completed in late 1988 with the joint effort of    plans to strengthen wastewater management are being
Chinese experts and Australian consultants funded by the  proposed.
Australian Intemational Assistance Development Bureau,
identified critical works on water resource development    Obiectives
and water pollution control required to sustain the
provision of an adequate supply of clean water and to    6.    The main objective of the work is to prepare
improve the environmental in the river basin regime.    proposals for a project to address water pollution prob-
Wastewater schemes for the cities of Fushun, Shenyang    lems in the Hun-Taizi River Basin. Some work on these
and Anshan have been identified as those that require    proposals have already been started, and the present
priority consideration.                               work should take these into account.
4.    Because of the very high industrial effluent
content of the wastewater, toxic matters, heavy metals
and very high effluent strengths in the wastewater



- 73 -                                           Annex 14
Page 2 of 4
Scofe of Work                                                   b.      Anshan.  A  technical note has been
prepared on the treatment and re-use of was-
7      Ihc main cask, in the work are expected to               tewater within Angang, China's largest integrated
include:                                                        iron and steel works. Collection of basic data on
wastewater quality and quantity has also becn
a.     Shenyang and Fushun. Substantial feasi-           carried out. 'Ibe feasibility study work for was-
bility study work has already been carried out on        tewater component in Anshan would include:
wastewater proposals for these two cities. These
prop(als have to be reviewed in terms of ap-               (I)   compilation of general information on
propriateness of si.c of proposed facilities, loca-              the region;
tion, ctc., within the framework of the wastewater         (2)   description and analysis of the existing
master plans of the cities, in the light of more                 wastewater system and wastewater oper.
recent data available (including updating of the                 ations in the city;
master plans), and any additional work required            (3)   analysis of information on domestic and
to modify the proposals should be carried out.                   industrial wastewater characteristics to
Preliminary feasibility reports produced included                determine projected wastewater flows
the following work done:                                         and loadings, including criteria for hy-
draulic design and requirements for
(1)  description of the region;                                corrosion protection;
(2)  description and analysis of existing was-           (4)   conduct treatability tests on wastewater;
tewater system;                                     (5)   study requirements on water quality
(3)  analysis of wastewater flows and loadings;                 standards and targets in the river basin;
(4)  study of alternative project proposals;             (6)   review wastewater master plan for city,
(5)  proposals for feasible project components                  and update with recent data available,
(6)  proposals for project implementation;                      and data developed in the early part of
(7)  summary of information on domestic and                    the study;
industrial wastewater characteristics;             (7)   study, within the framework of the was-
(8)  study of water quality standards and                       tewater master plan, alternative project
targets in the river basin;                               proposals for sewerage and wastewater
(9)  trade waste acceptance standards;                         disposal to meet required environmental
(10)  principles used in hydraulic design;                      objectives of the river basin, and for
(11)  proposals for corrosion protection;                       reuse of treated wastewater effluent for
(12)  results of treatability tests on wastewater;              Angang;
and                                                 (8)   detail proposals including technical fea-
(13)  cost estimating method and details.                       tures for feasible (least cost) project
components;
The following work will be needed to complete             (9)   prepare reliable cost estimates for pro-
the feasibility work:                                            ject components using sound estimating
methods;
(1)  analysis of the institutional requirements         (10)   prepare proposals for project implemen-
and organizational changes needed for                     tation including project implementation
water pollution control and wastewater                    scheduling, contract packaging and pro-
management in the cities;                                 ject financing plan;
(2)  review  and propose any strengthening              (t1)   analyze institutional requirements and
required in water pollution control and                   organizational changes needed for effec-
wastewater laws, regulations and practices                tive water pollution control and waste-
required to enable the above institutions                 water management in the city;
to function effectively;                           (12)  review and propose any strengthening
(3)  analyze and propose financial policies,                    required in water pollution control and
required tariffs (through the preparation                 wastewater laws, regulations and practic-
of appropriate financial projections incor-               es required to enable the above institu-
porating the new investments, collection                  tions to function effectively;
methods, accounting practices, etc. re-            (13)   analyze and propose financial policies,
quired  for efficient operation of the                    required tariffs (through the preparation
wastewater organizations; and                             of appropriate financial projections incor.
(4)  determine  main  operating  functions,                     porating the new investments, collection
staffing levels, and staff training needs.                methods, accounting practices, etc. re-
quired for efficient operation of the
wastewater organizations; and



- 74--                                           Annex 14
Page 3 of 4
(14)  determine  main  operating  functions,                  levels and function description of man-
staffing levels, and staff training needs.              agerial positions.
(14)  study financial requirements to allow the
entity to be financially viable, and ap-
c.     Regional Hazardous Waste Dis2osal. A                     propriate pricing policy for the service to
feasibility study for hazardous waste treatment                 ensure  that appropriate choices for
and disposal has been completed for the city of                 hazardous wastes would be made by
Shenyang. The tasks accomplished in this study                  industries.
included:                                                (15)  Study areas in existing laws and regula-
tions which need to be strengthened to
(1)  compilation of data on existing and                       enforce appropriate disposal of hazard-
planned industrial production of hazar-                  ous wastes.
dous wastes in Shenyang;
(2)  review of existing regulatory and waste           d.      Industrial Wastewater Treatment. An
management practices in Shenyang, and            important part of the plan for environmental
develop wasteload projections;                   improvement is the requirement for industries to
(3)  study of environmental and human health           apply for pollution discharge permits, which
risks of identified hazardous wastes;            would require industries to reduce to acceptable
(4)  define treatment and disposal objectives,         levels sewage strength, heavy metals and toxic
identify  and   rank  suitable  treat.           matters in their effluents.  In order for the
ment/disposal options;                           required legislation to achieve this to be success-
(5)  develop waste minimization strategies and         fully enforced, a funding mechanism to enable
recommended hazardous waste treatment            industries to carry out needed improvements has
and disposal facility for Shenyang, includ-      to be found. The work involved in the prepara-
ing selection of appropriate sites.              tion of this project component would include the
provision of information required for the setting
Additional work required would include:                 up and operation of this funding mechanism:
(6)  collection of data on existing and planned         (1)   a survey of the number and type of
industrial production of hazardous wastes                industries where effluents exceed dis-
in cities of areas which have the potential              charge standards in the 3 cities, and the
of being served with Shenyang by regional                type and quantity of pollutants to be
facilities;                                              reduced, and treatment technologies re-
(7)  develop wasteload projections for the                     quired;
extended area;                                     (2)   estimate rough costs required for reduc-
(8)  amplify, if necessary, findings on environ-               ing pollution to acceptable levels;
mental and health risks in the light of            (3)   propose plan for instituting and carrying
other forms of hazardous wastes found in                 out requirement for pollution discharge
the extended service area;                               permits for industries, and needed am-
(9)  study feasibility of regional hazardous                   endments to or strengthening of existing
waste treatment and disposal facilities in               environmental regulations to support this
terms of e onomy, reliability, safety and                action.
other factors between such facilities and          (4)   design technical criteria for evaluating
individual facilities at the factories.                  requests from industries for treatment
(10)  review  treatment/disposal options, and                  proposals requiring funding assistance
type, size and location of proposed haz-                 (such criteria should include an evalua-
ardous waste treatment and disposal                      tion of whether the industry has consid-
facilities for the extended service area.                ered exhaustively other non-investment
(11)  prepare reliable cost estimates for project              methods, and pollution reduction meth-
components  using  sound  estimauag                      ods from process changes that may be
methods;                                                 more cost effective);
(12)  prepare proposals for project implementa-                (5)   design procedures required for
tion including project implementation                           supervising the implementation
scheduling, contract packaging and project                      of the proposed works.
financing plan;
(13)  study and propose organization (entity)          e.      Environmental Mdanagement. A com-
required for the management and opera-           ponent will be included in this project on meas-
tion of the facilities, including staffing       ures required to strengthen environmental man-
agement in the province and in the three cities.



-75-                                           Annex 14
Page 4 of 4
The work required for the preparation of this    projects to be financed by the World flank. Required
component will include:                        qualifications of the consultants are the follouing
(1)  Review provincial and municipal environ-         (1)  successful completion of studies of sim-
mental plans, with particular regard to               ilar scope and degree of complexity;
water pollution control, and reassess            (2)  full knowledge of environmental, sanita-
feasibility in terms of meeting targets with          tion and sewerage technology; and
available provincial and municipal resour-       (3)  familianty with conditions in China.
ces;                                                   Previous work on China would be desira-
(2)  Identify areas in environmental regula-                ble.
tions of the province and the municipali-
ties, which would require strengthening,    Expected expertise required for the work would include:
amendment or addition in order to effec-
tively support the planned environmental         (1)   Environmental Planning and Manage-
protection (water pollution control) work              men;;
objectives, and prepare proposals for            (2)  'vnitary Engineering (general);
further study;                                   (3)  is;"stewater Treatment technology (in-
(3)  Gather information on the organizations                uustrial and municipal wastewater).
responsible for ensuring and maintaining         (4)   Hazardous and Toxic Waste Manage-
quality of the environment, in particular              ment;
those related to water, including definition     (5)   Environmental Law;
of responsibilities, staff levels, authorities,  (6)   Management and Organization;
and present practices; and prepare pro-          (7)   Financial Management.
posals for further studies which should
examine capabilities in environmental    Study Reports
planning and development ofenvironmen-
tal strategies including the information  10.   A work plan for the study should be prepared by
system required for such work, sources of    the team within one month of its formation, outlining
funding and adequacy of funding to carry    details of the work to be carried out, the work schedule,
out the work, responsiveness to environ-    and persons responsible for carrying out the work. The
mentalproblems,operationaleffectiveness    work plan should be submitted to the Director of the
in meeting goals, performance monitoring,    LEPB, the Director of the LCC and the World Bank for
staff capabilities, work incentives, organi-   review. Upon approval of the work plan the study can be
zatioiial changes required to improve    started. The total time required for the study is estimat-
work performance and coordination with    ed to be seven months. An interim report v. ., maps and
other involved parties.                 drawings showing preliminary ideas of the project scope
(4)  Review the present system of environ-    and rough details of the project should be prepared
mental (water pollution) monitoring, and  within four months after start of work, and submitted to
establish its adequacy for control with    the LEPB and LCC Directors and the World Bank for
regards to ambient conditions and pollu-    review. Remaining work on the study would be carried
tion sources; and propose necessary    out taking into account suggestions from the review of
strengthening works, including equipment    the interim report, and a draft final report should be
and instrumentation needed, to be in-    prepared within two months after receipt of the review
cluded in the project;                   suggestions. The draft final report will be reviewed by
(5)  Prepare proposals for appropriate training    the LEPB and LCC Directors and the World Bank, and
to staff engaged in environmental (water    official comments will be transmitted to the study team.
pollution control) work.                The report should be finalized within one month of
receipt of such comments.
Work Organization
8.    The work will be directed by the LEPB and the
LCCr The work will be carried out by a team of Chinese
professionals, working full-time, to be designated by the
Liaoning Government and the Municipal Governments of
Shenyang, Fushun and Anshan.
9.    The team will be assisted by a team of consultants
with international experience and experience in preparing



- 76 -                                           Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Truining Program
Training and Management *)c%elopment Stratey           supply technician school.  In addition to the training
proided inhouse, external training facilities are also used.
1.   Ihe   proposed  training   and   management    These include the Shenyang construction engineering
development stratcgL aims to utilise local training facilities  College, the North Fast Fnginecring College, the I larbin
and resources to the fullest, whilst recognising that some  Construction  Engineering  (ollege,  the  Ltaoning
overscas training and in%olvement of foreign specialists  University, the Shenyang University, the D)alian Water
Aill be required. 1raining %ill be for all staff levels from  Supply Company Employees lUniversity, ctc..
operators to management. Local training facilities in
Shenyang and other cities in China will be utilised to the  Training and Management Development lTevels
extent possible. Overseas training will mainly involve
training Chinese trainers at overseas institutions. Upon  5.   The overall training  plan  envisages training
their return to China, these trainers would become largely    activities at four basic staff levels:
responsible for conducting the staff training program.
Management development programs will be centered             a.   operator level for plant operators, assistants,
around improving the talents and capabilities of senior           and unskilled workers in the operation and
managers and will include project work, self- development         maintenance of technical components of the
activities, seminars, overseas visits and secondments.            sewerage system;
b.  sub-professional training for technicians and
2.   The training strategy will concentrate heavily on            other sub-professional staff, accounts clerks,
increasing the awareness of Chinese trainers in modern            personnel assistants;
training techniques.  Primarily it will bring to the         c.  training  of  professionals  -  managers,
attention  of experienced  Chinese  trainers, courses             engineers and accountants; and
available overseas which, after modification, can be         d.   management development programme for
applied for the use of the new sewerage company.                  senior management team.
Another main feature of the strateg) involves 'bringing'
suitable courses and programs to China to be run by    Water Operator and Maintenance Personnel Training
Chinese trainers.  This approach would ensure that
foreign training inputs would be minimised and be      6.   This training will continue to be provided at the
focused on introducing training techniques rather than    inhouse training facilities of the water supply companies
actual job training.                                   which will be strengthened.  Training equipment and
resources will be strengthened. In addition to general
3.   Foreign consultant advisory input would be to assist    operations and maintenance training, it is anticipated that
in:                                                    training in the basic operation and maintenance of new
plant and equipment will be provided by the
a.   assessing   training   and   management    manufacturers and/or contractors at the  time of
development needs;                           commissioning. This requirement will be stipulated in the
b.  identifying all suitable sources of training; i.e.    contract documents for those works. Consideration will
cost-effective and relevant sources;         also be given to involving maintenance personnel during
c.   drafting of tender documents or terms of    the installation and commissioning processes for plant
reference for the supply of training services;    and equipment of the Project.
and
d.   evaluating proposals from training services    7.   The topics to be covered in operator training
institutes and agencies.                     include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
Local Training Facilities                                    a.   water  supply  maintenance  to  include:
inspection procedures; entrance and safety
4.   Multi-level training facilities already exist in China.      procedures; cleaning techniques including
All three water supply companies provide some training            flushing  and  grit removal; repairs and
at the operator and trades level, with the one in                 maintenance procedures including trench
Shenyang most well developed. The Shenyang Water                  safety; operating procedures;
Supply Company (SWSC) Training Centcr participates in        b.  water treatment to include: basic chemistry
the Shenyang Television University Program on water               and microbiology of drinking water supply,
supply. It runs a school to provide training in water and         basic  labc_atory  and  'in-situ'  testing
sewerage, civil construction, statistics and record keeping;      procedures for water; basic concepts of
a mid-level technical school for water supply, and a water        physical and chemical treatment; treatments



-  77  -                                              Anncx 15
Page 2 of 4
works operition procedures covering general     foreign assistance, especially in the Odcnttficat;,n of course
prOcedures, process control and  specific       materials
mechanical cquipment, hasic concepts of
planncd  miintcnancc. safety  procedures.       Water Professional irutinin_
control  and   fault  finding   principles;
administration and record keeping,               11.   raining   of  cneinccrs,  sciCentists  (chemists,
c.   pump  stations  to  include:  installation.      hiologists, environrimental scientists etc.), accountants, and
operation, care aid maintenance tof pump%;       other professtonaLk will include technical as well as
pumping  principles and  ba..ic hydraulics;      managerialtopics NManagcmncittraiining coures fiousing
ancillary equipment installation, maintenance    on thc specific management nceds of the water supply
and routine testing; operational procedures;     compvnics should  be dcsclopd  and estahlished  in
safety  at work; maintenance  procedures;        L.iaon ng using m(xoels of such cour5se  held ahroad.
control and fault finding including emergency    Overseas visits to observe practices in othcr countries
procedures;  administration   and   record       woould also he arranged for senior managers.
keeping.
12.  TIraining topics would include:
8.   While operator training courses arc already offered
in Liaoning, it is necessary to review the contents of these      a.   management training on: decision making,
courses to see if they cain fulfill the needs of water supply          accountability,  and   delegation   power;
companies.  It may bh  necessary to incorporate new                    organisational   behaviour;  organisational
training techniques and training materials used overseas               theory; motivation and development of staff;
and, possibly, the audition of overseas courses and                    planning; financial management;
training equipment.                                               h.   specialist training  on: use  of computer
tcchniqucs in specific professional fields;
Water Sub-Professional Iraining                                        spccific up-to-date techniques in engineering
and scientific fields.
9.   Topics to be covered in this area comprise:
Water   Management  D)evelopment   for  Senior
a.   training  for  e.-gineering  and  scientific     Management
technician.  on:  general  principles  and
objectives of water supply, water extraction     13.  The Scnior Managcment D)evelopment Program is
and treatment; special skills, e.g. laboratory   intended  to  prepare  senior managers, identified as
techniques, use of specific computer models;     candidates  for top  positions  in  the  water supply
report  and   letter  writing  techniques;       companies, for the expandced managerial roles required.
programming and scheduling techniques (e.g.      Integration  of technical and  financial management
planned maintenance, routine monitoring);       responsibilities at the top level will he the focal point for
b.   training  for  accounts  clerks  on:  basic    training in this program. T'he program will include visits
hookeeping  principles;  basic  accoel'ting      to other cities in China and abroad, attendance at
concepts and office management procedures        sert. nars, project work and courses in Shanghai and at
for control of source documents such as          the China Management 'Irainmirg Centre at D)alian.
invoices  and  accounts  payable;  payroll       Trainees   will  be   given   an   exposure   to
management; use of computers for processing      performance-oriented  management styles, up-to-date
accounts;                                        management planning  and  control techniques  and
c.   training  on  materials  management  for         performance monitoring systems.  P'roject work will
storekeepers and  storc  clerks on: stock        demonstrate  how  managemer: techniques such  as
control procedures; stocktaking techniques;      "pertormance budgeting",  Ad "management by target
use  of computers  in stock  control and         control' can be applied 'ithin the trainee's environment.
management;
d.   training for administration  personnel on:       Training for Jarban Transport Staff
library maintenance procedures; personnel
record  maintenance; security training  for      14.  Training in urban transport will be for all levels of
guards.                                          managers and supervisors, engineering staff, and traffic
police. The cmphasis will be for training in the country
10.  Courses for sub-professionais are available for       by both local and foreign experts and this training will be
several of these topics at local training institutes, and   supplemented with overseas tours for the middle and
these courses can be augmented by the introduction of       upper level staffs. The objective of the overseas :ours is
training techniques and topics not covered locally or       to familiarize the managers with the latter techniques of
requiring upgrading, using Chinese trainers, but with    traffic engineering, public transport management, traffic
enfo.cement and road maintenance management in order



- 78 -                                          Annex 1S
Page 3 of 4
that the manager might gain an appreciation of new    Timing
developments in urban transport planning, design,
mnanagement and operations.                            18.       The training program is to be completed by
December 31, 1994.
15.  'Ihe Project will emphasis training with the intent to
reduce the dependence on foreign advisors for the design
of the traffic improvement schemes and in the operations
of the public transport system. Foreign advisors will be
used to supplement the training program with practical,
on-the-joh-training (OJT) Courses planned to be given
in (China are: (i) T'raffic engineering and road corridor
deign practices; (ii) Traffic regulations, enforcement and
management;and (iii) Public transport operations and
workshop management. In fact formal training was
started in traffic engineering for engineers in the Project
Office and the Design Institute as part of the corridor
design activity for the Froject. This training will continue
through the corridor implementation stage and into the
monitoring and evaluation phases.
Training for Project Staff
16.  Project staff training includes intensive courses for
project management personnel. Area of project staff
training would cover contract law which covers contract
programming and administration, arbitration, and other
related subjects, construction supervision and quantity
survey.  The project will contract the services of
consultants specializing in this field to prepare and
conduct the training in Shenyang. In order to achieve
maximum benefit, this course would have to be
conducted at an early stage of the project.
Organization for executing Training Program
17. A training unit consisting of 5 persons will be set up
within the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal
Project Office to be rcsponsible for coordinating the
training efforts under this project. The unit will be
responsible for working out the details of the training
program, arranging training courses and field trip,
arranging overseas training, selecting trainees, inviting
lecturers, and preparing the lists of training equipment
and materials to be procured.
Cost Estimates
17.      The total cost of training and management
development over the project period (1990 to 1994) is
estimated to be about Y5.29 million (US$1.13 million) of
which Y3.89 million (US$0.83 million) are foreign costs
and Y1.4 million (US$0.3 million) are local costs. The
amount is shared equally between water supply and
urban transport personnel. The amount includes about
YI.24 million (US$0.26 million) for the procurement of
training and laboratory equipment and development of
training materials. Details of the cost estimate are found
in page 4 of this annex.



- 79 -                                                Annex 15
Page 4 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Training Program
TRAINING COURSES
Item  Course Tile           Nuntber Period       Venue      No. of           Source of               Estunated Cost
(days)               Taineces          Trainees             Local       Foreign
y          USS
I  Project Planning and       1       30      Shenyang       30    Project Offices. Con-          150,000      40.000
Management                                                      struction Commissions
2  Water Supply and           1       30      Sbenyang       30    Water Supply Comnpanci.        150.000      40,000
Wastewater Management                                           Coentruction Comnmiaion
3  Urban Transport and        1       30      Shenyang       30    Constrtction Comrniuiona       150.000      40.000
Traffic Management                                              lAublic Security Bureau
4  Public Transpoft           1       30      Sbenyaag       30    Public Transport               150,000      40,000
Management                                                      Companies
5  Financial Management       1       30      Shenyang       30    Water Supply Companies,        150,000      40,000
Public Transport Com-
panies. Finansce Bureaus
6  Training for Watcr         1       30      Shenyang       30    Tntiners of Water              150,000      40.000
Operators                                                       Supply Companies
7  Road Maintenance           1       30      Sbenyung       30    Construction Commission        150,000      40,000
8  Computer Applications      1       30      Sbenyang       30    Project Offices. Con-          150,000      40.000
stnction Commissions.
Financc Bureaus. Water
Supply Companies. Public
Transport Companies
TOTAL COST                1,200,000    320,000
OVERSEAS VISITS
Item    Training Purpose              Period    Country     No. of           Source of               Estimated Cost
(wecka)              Traineea            Trainces            Local      Foreign
Y          USS
I  Water Supply and                    3       T.B.D.        6      Water Supply Companies.                    36,000
Wastewater Management                                           Constriction Comnmissions
2  Public Transport                    3       T.B.D.        6      Public Transport Com-                      36,000
Management                                                      panics, Construction
Comamissions
3  Water Supply and Wastewater         3       T.B.D.        12    Water Supply Companies,                     72,000
Technology (treatment. oper-                                    Consttuction Commissions
ation. quality control)
4  Urban Transport and Traffic         4       T.BD.         12    Constuetion Commissions,                    72.000
Engincering (urban transport                                    Public Security  ureau
operations, traffic engin-
eering. traffic signals.
road maintenance)
S  Water Supply Control Systems        3       T.B.D.        10    Water Supply Companies,                     60.000
ConstiNction Commissions
6  Urban Transport and                 3       T.B.D.         5     Constrution Commissions.                   30.000
Traffic Control Systems                                         Public Security Bureau
TOTAL COST                              306,000
TRAINING EQUIPMENT AND MATERLALS                                     TOTAL COST                   300,000 200,000
GRAND TOTAL COST                                                                               1,400,000  826,000



- 80 -                           Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Organization of Liaoning Province
Liaoning
People's
I
Congress
Governor
of
Liaoning
Construction    l      Personnel              Construction             Labor
Commission            Department              Materials                Bureau
_ _ _ _ _   _   _  _   _  _         ~~~~~~Bureau_                 _      _
Economic               Forestry                Land                   Foreign
and Trade              Department               Bureau                 Affairs
Commisslon                                                            Bureau
Organizational         Water and               Taxation               Tourism
Reform         1       Power              _   Bureau                  Bureau
Commission            Department
Planning&        1       Public         1      Minerals                Standards
Economic                Health                and Mines                Bureau
Commission            Department               Bureau
Science &              F finance        1     Environment             Measures
Technology             Department              Protection              Bureau
Commission             _____                 | Bureau
Mechanical      1      Commerce                Audit                  Agricultural
Equipment             Department               Bureau                Machinery
Commission             ____j                                  J        Bureau
Education       1     Metallurgy       1      Industry &             Electronics
Commission            Department              Commerce                Bureau
J  _____  J           ~~~Bureau_                    _      _
Transportation          Materials         LJ Chemical
Department              Bureau              ]  Industry
Bureau
Material
Pricing
Bureau



- 81 -                                             Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
CIIINA
LIAONING UJRBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Shenyang Municipal Government Organization
Shenyang
Peoplc's Congress j
Mayor
(f
Shenryang
aParignd n       |Foreig= izoo.&  |Urtntnand Rural Canal            Education     |°9^kir |  ScienctillTerh.|
L   omssion   |   Trade               tructiono |       Cornmisso    Crxnmleein   |Corln ||Commission                  i
Petroleum and8hnaglte 
ChemicaJ Industry     FoJreign 7radmng   |       uppty             Educatrion                                               Pesnl 
Bureau                Company           Compwry             Bureau                                                    Bureau
Mechanical Eqt.JClua 
Metaliurgical       Import & Epoet       _Shenyang Ga                                                                      Bureau
Bureau                Company        Conpany
8urirreau 
LUght Itndustry8hnag_                                                                                  Bru         |
Mech. Industry        Prod. Export &          Transpwt
T     Bureau                                tuImport Co.  ._ rau
Metal e .ineral        henyang Environu
Weaving Industry             Producta      mrnental Proter.tBonure
_   Bureau        _        Cornpany              Burettu   ||Crpny            ||ComPany                                  Bra
Weaving Products              Shenyang |                                                            Relteorr
|Electronics In-   l    |mpon & Export  |   |      Ptanning  |                                                              gicalBureau
|dustry Bureau                 Company               Bureau 
-  Foods &Oils                 ShnyangEubn{.1Bra
Agric. Machines  |    Import a Expor       IConstructon
B~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ureau  Co1pn  BureauPO mi
S1henyan Con-                                              oueL-r             _ Paa
|Light Industry   |                         truction Service   |     lalteanre|                              i          ju lEecrt
Adm. Bureau                                         Bureau   || Ohlon           |                      Bureau     |       |8ra
hnagCons- ||Lgstv
|Trade &Commerre                            tructionMaterils |Bureurea
nAdm Buteau                                         g  ureau 
[ Foort usrain      mpalionsa :e 
IRural &SmaJl                                                                                           Buea u9eyngAn    |Ltty Bureau |
|Totwn Ind Admn.  |                         Administration
Bureau                                      B  ureau                                                                   L - | 8rabu
|Tobacco Adm.                                              |LAmnTotn  utierbism
B urstu |                                        uea                                                Bureau                 B  ursau 
IWeighte a MReal      vtr
iiu,  Bu'dueauu



-82 -                                          Annex 16
Page 3 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Fuxin Municipal Govemment Organization
| Fuxin|
|People's Coltgreos 
|  Mayorof  euxini|
Trade
Eiiro;g n t§ n           g     UrDen a        reinan                         TO            i o  e          laence  -
ProtectIon        |CommIsson       ConstructFon           Bureau         Hqtre. (Pro    Conesncy             Technologyj
|                                            q  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pricing
Bureau ot  Bureau oo
Conructbon  _Urbann
En"er no  _                 Construction                                                  Foer
Housing   *                               l                                           Mechanical
Bureau    _        Fuxin  _          Municipal  |                                     |Engineering
Weter ~Admin.
Cornpany Comnpany 
Statistic 
Chemical
Industries
F  TexUtle   |
Industries |
Metal-
lurtigical
Industries
Agric.
Husbandry &
Fisherie.
_ Foreign |
Affairs 
- VPublic      |
LHealth
Public
Security
Bureau



- 83 -                               Annex 16
Page 4 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROIECr
Yingkou Municpal Government Organization
Yingkou
People's Congress
Mayor of Yingkou
* _ *  l  ~  1  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ [ ~-~  ~  ~ ~ 4 -  *     * _Foreigin Trade
Pranning      Urban & Rural    Finance        Construction     Water                Science &
Commission    Construction      Bureau         Headquarters     Cons 0 vancy        Technology
Cornmission                                       Bureau
l                                      n  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pricing
Bureau of             Bureau of
Construction            Urban
Engineering           Construction                                                    Forestry
|                                                         _FMechanical |
Bureau of        Yingkou     Municial      Pr ect        ruction                  Engineering
Construction     Water Su  y YAMmin.        Ofice       office
Engineering      Copany    Company 
-fStatisfic~
Housing
Bureau
Chemnical
Industries
|1Industries|
metallurgical
industries
-dry & Fisherie
L -oreign
Affairs
ui Pbic
Health
|  lbC Seurn
Bureau |



- 84 -                                    Annex 17
Page I of 3
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Shenyang Water Supply Company Organization
Shenyang Urban & Rurali
Construction Commission
I
Shenyang Water Supply
Copnyttt      opn
(1500)    (1-089)    (1,566)             (50)        (20)I
A.G.M(1         A.G.M.(2)   A-G.M.(3)   AGM()A.G.M.(S)   Hst tChe                            -Had
Genera     Enineer s|  OfieAd
|~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~n  rae  Material
u pi                                    SplCo.1
(1,785)                                  (0
F-Bu-siniw nee,inp  n1ii             Exporti       ou n  -          Tang 
_ Compan    Copany  Iman              & &Design | Dv     |       _Cnter |
l    l      | ~~Institute      Copan
(1.500)    (1.089)    (1.566)            (50)        (20)              (20)
IWater QualitF                               srte   I                  Lo& |
jExaminatioln                             Saing  }                     Payrcll
Center                                |Division
(30)                                    (0
Flnance
Disison|



-  85 -                                            Annex 17
Page 2 of 3
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Fuxin Water Supply Company Organization
Fuxin Urban Construction
Administration Bureau
Fuxin Water Supply Co
I     General Manager           |
Construction      CommercI              Water iesour                    Chbef          Engineer             Engineer
S Ipp. Servic a > & Wa ter &v8 l        Developmen                      Aocountant     Production        Technology
Nevr Wat r    Enterp see 
Conetructin    _Water Savir g         Resourt         Mgt.         Acctg.          |Production  |       Water Qualit
Compan |(289)      Office  (13)    Devlop (2 )    Secton  (7)   Section   (7) - Seclion        (18)     Section  (8)
|Tranpot              HaiG XI                                                            btlIeh|          rTann 
LBrlgade 9(39)   LDepot  n(66                                   (4) )(7)                                    8ectbn   (2)
n    Section (81)  n   Depot  1(47)              | Ma pow                           Ssetion    1(4) -|  School t(26
PWMaterial        r-Hearg                         -|                                                                I
Section (15)        Depot  P(48)OW"                                                      ec on    (1)
wSecton (7)            _       Depot  (51)                                                                        (2
Forestry             Xl )an Qin  |                     l                             I Fuclte
Section (2)       Depot  (25)                      General
J(15)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O __ice8                                         ____147
| Ung Hen   e  ae
S   Depot  2(13)                                                   Plant o      (49)
Water Plant (78)
Hal Zhou 
D   Water Plant 1(92)
I n Qiu
Water Plant (71)



Annex 17
- 86  -                                            Page 3 of 3
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Yingkou Water Supply Company Organization
iYsnLm  V4srction 
Commission
Yinico urm
|Construction Bureau
I
GewnerlMn8
I                 I                     r        '      Z       , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water lgurcel
Pro,^ect ffbe  |  |Office
Enterprire             Yong An               General                                                          annig &
Management   3         Water      65         Office      5                   Ifair  15  Planning    2       Estimating    4
Office                 Plant                                     Ssbnton                                    Sectbn
Production             U Jia                 War                    nitatConract                            Technogy
Statistcs     10       Water      18         Sgirng      a        Proection  20         TnderIng   4        Assesmnt   8
Section                Plant                Off8e                                       Section             Section
Technology                                                                                                    nao.1  erCal-  Materble
Section      14     Distribution   20        bration    26       Supply      6       Management  8          Section       4
Station                Section              SectonS
Water              Treatment&              Commer-              Emplo|ee
Quality Con-   17   |Distrbution   s 0       cW         140   | Tralnng    8            nation      I       Supply        4
trdSection            Plant                       n                          Secti CenterSeon
Labor               No.3
Section      2     DisIbubton   30
Station
Security           Water supply
Section      2     Equipment
Factory
Juandian    s      Records Inf. 
Water       56     & &Cornmuni- 110
Plant       |     |cation Center|



Annex 18
- 87 -
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCIURE PROJECI
Operation Performance Monttors
Water SuDDlV Comnanies
For the purpose of measuring perfonnance, a number monitors to gauge operating efficiencies have been suggested to
be reported by managers of the water supply companies Because of variations in conditions between systems, it is not
possible to establish standard performance targets, and notional targets will be set for each water supply company with
the monitoms used principally for the purpose of gauging whether improvement in performance has been achieved. The
performance monitors to be kept by the water companies are to be as follows:
Shenvan       Fuxin        Yinizkou
1. Domestic supply metering (%)
1990                        66            49            72
1995                        87            78            93
2000                        100           100           100
2. Unacoounted for water (%)
1990                        17            16            16
1995                        12            12            12
2000                        10            10            10
3. Staff manning level
(in staff per 1,000 conns.)
1990                       5.50          8.69          5.77
1995 (proposed)            5.13          7.82          5.38
2000 (proposed)             4.88          7.25          5.11
In addition, in order togauge improvement or deterioration in operating performance, the watersupply companieswould
also record and report on a yearly basis (a) the average cost of fuel per unit of production; (b) the average cost of
chemicals per unit of production; (c) the frequency distribution of recorded daily lowest water pressure maintainable in
the system; and (d) the percentage of water samples that have failed to pass quality tests.
Shenvani Public Transoort Comoanies
Current             Upon Project
Situation           Comobtion
Shenvant Bus Comoanv Overhauls
Number per year                          240                      485
Bus days in shop                         25                        13
Shenyang Trollev-Bus Comoanv Overhaub
Number per year                          90                       120
Vehide days in shop                       32                       24



Annex 19
Page I of 2
CIIINA
LIAON IN G URBAN INFRASTRUCrURE PROJECT
Technical and Fiinancial Advisors for Water Stupply Coumpanies
l)raft Terms of Reference
Background                                             b. Water Supply Operations
1.  The Shenyang Water Supply General Company             (1)  Review  regulations and operating rules for
(SWSGC), the Fuxin Water Supply Company (FWSC) and             water supply companics, and identilty areas
the Yingkou Water Suppl. Company (YWSC) are responsi-          where they can be strcngthened;
ble for the pro,ision of public water supply to all areas  (2)  Study and propose measures to improve prcpa-
within authorized service areas that cover all built-up areas  ration and maintaining of record drav%ings and
within the urban boundaries of the rcspective municipalities.  plans;
All three water supply companies have been in operation   (3)  Study and propose measures to streamilinc
for many years under various organizational forms (Shen-       operations, including preparation of operating
yang since 1936, Fuxin since 1956 and Yingkou since 1950).     manuals for:
The companies have mandates to be self-accounting and          i.   procedures and actions required for water
self-funding, and are managed along the lines of a public           supply connections;
utility under a General Manager, and regulated under the       ii.   meter maintenance program;
Construction Commission of the respective municipalities.      iii.  a preventive maintenance program  for
The service area of each company includes all urban                 waterworks plant and equipmcnt;
districts of the municipality. Under the project the water     iv.  appropriate standards for water quality
supply systems of the companies will be expanded by 29%             monitoring and control;
for SWSGC, 58% for FWSC and 63% for YWSC.                      v.  administrative procedures for communi-
cations, transport, inventory control, pro-
Scope of Work                                                       curement, security and other matters
related to operations;
2.  The technical advisor will provide assistance to the  (4)  Develop internal administrative procedures for
General Manager and deputy general managers (technical)        liaison between water supply company head-
to establish a mechanism for planning and preparation of       quarters and operational units;
projects, develop standards for water supply operations,  (5)  Develop management information systems to
provide advice on the planning and instituting of a leakage    include reporting formats, type of reports,
detection program, and planning of manpower resource           periodicity, timing and responsibility for prepa-
development. The financial advisor will provide assistance     ration and report distribution.
to the General Manager and the deputy general manager
(financial) on adoption of accounting standards, improve-   c. Leakage Detection Program
ments in the keeping of the company accounts, auditing
arrangements, financial reporting, billing and collection.     The work will involve the developing of a plan
for an appropriate program for leakage dctection of
3.  The tasks of the technical advisors are expected to   the water supply networks of the watcr supply compa-
provide guidance and advice in the conducting of the      nies, to be carried out on a regular basis, with the aim
following work:                                           of controlling leakage to a level which is acceptable,
and the implementation of this plan. The work is
a. Planning and Preparation of Proiects                  expected to include:
(1)  Review present system for collection of data on  (1)  Initial assessment of leakage lcvels in the water
water production, water consumption and other        networks, including calibration of meters and
data required for planning purposes in the           replacement of faulty meters to be used in the
service areas of the water supply companies;         assessment;
(2)  Develop a system to assess water demands in     (2)  Compilation of maps and network record plans;
their service areas, which will allow regular   (3)  Develop strategies for leakage detection pro-
updating;                                            gram with water supply company staff, including
(3)  Identify future water supply development pro-        preparation of leakage detection manuals and
jects, and plan for the conducting of required       organization of staff for leakage detection work;
engineering studies.                            (4)  Carrying out of leakage detection work on a
trial basis, following the full program is to be
implemented;
(5)  Analysis of results and organizing for leakage
repair.



- 89  _                                        Annex 19
Page 2 of 2
d. Manptower Recsourcc 1)csclopment                               reduce staffing and enhance analytical possibili-
ties;
(I)  Asscssmcnt of manpower requirements based           (5)  Collaborate with the tariff study team under the
on forecast of operational activities of the water      same project to review and deterniine adequacy
supply companies over the next ten years;               of current tariff policy, structure and levels, and
(2)   Assess of gaps or excesses in staffing needs in         make recommendations accordingly;
specific operational areas, in terms of number,    (6)  Providc training to the water supply companies'
joh  classification, cxpertise  and  experiencc          financial and accounting staff whilst carrying out
required (account should be taken of better             the above assignments, and prepare a formal
utilization of existing staff together with associ-     training program  after assessing the training
ated training required);                                 needs to complement these efforts.
(3)   rstablishment of a recruitment plan taking into
accoxunt the build-up of the operations of the  Work Or2anization
water supply companies, staff retirement, and
s;aff development potential;                  5.   Twotechnicaladvisorsand onc financial advisor would
(4)  Review existing staff recruiting practices and  be engaged for an initial period of one year. Administra-
make proposals for improvement; and           tively, the advisors would report to the Director of the
(5)  Review of existing personnel policies, including  Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office,
salary structure, position classification, staff  who will be responsible for their assignments to the water
performance review procedures, bonus systems  supply companies. They will also report to the General
and other incentive methods and procedures,  Managers of the three water supply companies concerning
and propose appropriate improvements giving  matters related to the execution of their work. The advisors
due regard to the laws and regulations govern-  would be working with staff of the specific divisions of the
ing employment in China;                      water supply companies to be assigned for the respective
(6)  review and propose improvements to procedures  tasks outlined above.
for maintaining personnel records;
(7)  Assess training needs, review training proposals  6.   Required qualifications of the advisors are given
included in the project and prepare supple-  below:
mental training proposals if necessary, such
proposals to include possible in-house training,   (1)  For the technical advisors, qualified water supply
training at appropriate training institutions at        or sanitary engineers, with considerable experi-
home and abroad, and on-the- job training.              ence in the operation of water supply systems
and water supply project planning, and must
4.   The financial advisors are expected to provide guid-          have worked in a senior management position of
ance and advice to financial staff of the water supply             a large water supply utility in charge of water
companies. Expected tasks are as follows:                          supply operations for at least 5 years;
(1)  Make comprehensive reviews and carry out           (2)  For the financial advisor, degree or equivalent in
diagnostic study of the water supply companies          finance, accounting or business adminstration
to identify weaknesses and recommend mea-               with experience and business judgement gained
sures to remedy deficiencies in the present              in senior positions with utilities or public agen-
capacities of its managerial, financial and ac-         cies in fields connected with water supply.
counting staff, budgetary and accounting proce-         Knowledge of utility accounting, finance, rate
dures particularly their relationships with the         structures, investment criteria, organization and
municipal finance bureaus, municipal construc-          management.  Familiarity with public utility
tion commissions, other water supply related            economics, particularly cost benefit analysis. A
entities, Special Funds accounting, financial           knowledge of developing countries and working
reporting contents and procedures, internal and         experience on development problems is desir-
external audits arrangements;                           able;
(2)  Review in detail the investment programs from
the financial viewpoint, and access the sound-     (3)  Familiarity with customs and practices in China,
ness of the financing plan, particularly in the use     Chinese labor and Government administrative
of debt financing and techniques applied to cope        regulations would be considered an important
with inflation;                                         asset.
(3)  Assist the water companies in fiancial planning,
specifically in the preparation of financial fore-
casts using the model developed by the Bank
during project preparation;
(4)  Develop, where appropriate, computer based
billing system and management information
system to climinate much of the tedious work,



- 90  -                                      Annex 20
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Shenyang: Road Inventory and Condition
Road Inventor
_HI-C           Width         No. of Roads      Area m2 (1.000)        % of Total Area
Ist class         40.60 m         42                  2,999                30.3
2nd class         30.40 m         65                  2,247                22.8
3rd class         22-30 m         100                 1,279                 12.9
4th class         18-22 m       2,362                 3,360                34.0
Total                                                9,885                100.0
Road Condition (Ist and 2nd class)
Area M2         % Of
Condition         No. Roads   (a,00j0        Total Area    Maint Read
Good                 24        2,060          38         Routine Maintenance
Fair                 30        1,490          27         20%-30% of surface needs repaving
Poor-serious          24        1,060          19          needs total re-
cracks                                                   surfacing
Weak-foundation        17         520           9          complete reconstruction
Good surface-          6          360           7          needs future
needs widening                                           widening
Others                 61         -
I    Crosses two districts, so counted twice.



Annex 21
- 91 -                                     Page 1 of 2
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Operatlng Statistics
Shenyang Bus Company
Item                1982     1983      1984      1985     1986      1987      1988     1989
Traffic
Passengers (min),    312       300      315       313      331       402       400      410
Pass-KMS (mtn)      1634      1654      1799     1782      1941     2455      2475    2500
No. of Vehicles
Rigid Bus            237       211      193       211      207       194       201     201
Articulated Bus      319       349      383       418      433       446       441     441
Total             556      560       576       629      640       640       642     642
Vehicles KMS (1.000)
Rigid               8665      7292     6320      5727      6556     7603      7415    7033
Articulated         16631    17108    18225    17727    18580    19017    19447  20369
Total           25296    24400    24545    23454    24136    26620    26862  27402
Staff
Traffic             5122      5331      5133     5734      5993     6166      6215    6210
Engineering         1601      1779      1702     1723      1789      1759     1731    1718
Administration       178       192       175      187       185      177       175     176
Other                842       624      916       850      799       562       490     489
Total            7743      7926     7926      8494      8766     8664      8611    8593
I Distances relate to regular route services only, and excludes any irregular/charter services.



- 92 -                                         Annex 21
Page 2 of 2
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Operating Statistics
Shenyang Trolley-Bus Company
Item                1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987     1988       1989
Traffic
Passengers (mnn)2    339       340       342      339       342       385       375       333
Pass-Km. (min)       1426      1418     1502      1505      1641      1897     1828      2406
No. of Vehicles
Rigid Bus              4         4         4        19        17       17        19      19
Articulated Bus        10       10        10        23        23       23        23      23
Total               14        14        14        42       40        40        42      42
Rigid Trolley Bus     31        32        32        31       24        23        21      10
Articulated Trolley Bus 419    436       426       427      444       464      477      488
Total              450       468       458       458      468       487      498      498
Vehicle Km. (1.000)
Rigid Bus            211       157       151       284      659       623      654      495
Articulated Bus      264       297       216       259      475       590      591      799
Subtotal           475       454       367      543       1143     1213      1245     1294
Rigid Trolley Bus    1008      801       759       779      756       503      445      452
Artic. Trolley Bus    18572    19993    21102    20684    20898    21972   21881   22316
Subtotal          19580    20794    21861    21463    21654    22475    22326   22768
Total            20055    21248    22228    22006    22797    23688   23571   24062
Staff
Traffic              3711     3835      3756      4089      4596     4335      4393     4393
Engineering          1530      1583     1695      1741      1885     2003     2082    2082
Administration       447       455       554       631      705       662      637      637
Other                1883      1362     1233      1018      768       800      691      691
Total            7071      7235      7238      7479     7954      7800     7803      7803
2 Distances relate to regular route services only, and excludes any irregular/charter services.



- 93  -                         Annex 22
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Summary of Key Financial Indicators 1991-1997
Yuan Million
Year ended December 31          1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
swsc
Water sales (Mln m3)            380.9   380 9   471.9   487.7   504.2   507.8   535.8
Average revenue (fcn/m3)        30.0    40.0    40.0    45.0    45.0    55.0    55.0
Operating revenue               114.3   152.3   188.8   219.5   226.9   279.3   294.7
Operating income                26.3    43.9    70.7    27.9    25.0    67.1    28.0
Capital Expenditure             212.2   217.2    91.3   171.3   216.1   229.8    70.2
Net fixed assets in operation   199.9   340.7   351.9   919.3   902.4   882.0  1317.3
Long-term debt                   34.3    97.3   159.1   185.7   189.4   180.3   161.9
Cashatendofyear                  9.0    10.2   20.9       9.1     8.3     6.8    51.6
Rate of return on net fixed asset  14.6    15.3    18.5   4.5     2.7     7.4     2.3
Self-financing ratio (%)         36.4    49.8    33.8    50.7    42.8    64.0    76.7
Operating ratio (%)              77.0    71.2    62.5    87.3    89.0    76.0    90.5
Debt as % of debt and equity     5.2    11.7    17.4    18.3    16.3    14.3    12.8
FWSC
Water sales (Mln m3)             60.8    60.8    67.1    82.5    86.2    86.2    92.4
Average revenue (fen/m3)        45.0    45.0    45.0    65.0    65.0    65.0    85.0
Operating revenue                27.4    27.4    30.2    53.6    56.0    56.0    78.5
Operating income                  6.8     5.5     7.2    11.3     4.7     3.0     9.4
Capital Expenditure              27.4    66.9    81.3   104.7    86.4    63.3     7.9
Net fixed assets in operation    53.2    50.6    47.9   116.3   182.3   173.2   289.3
Long-term debt                   4.7    23.0    52.3    74.9    83.5    80.8    72.3
Cash at end of year               1.6     1.7     1.4     2.3     2.3     2.1    17.1
Rate of return on net fixed assets  12.0    8.3   9.2     9.2     3.4     1.9     4.3
Self-financing ratio (%)         11.3    5.6      6.0    11.3     9.0    17.8    64.4
Operating ratio (%)              75.0    79.8    76.2    78.8    91.7    94.7    88.0
Debt as % of debt and equity     5.9    16.0    23.8    23.7    21.5    18.6    16.8
YWSC
Water sales (Mln m3)            40.3    46.7    51.5    57.0    58.2    59.2    60.2
Average revenue (fen/m3)        50.0    50.0    65.0    65.0    65.0    65.0    75.0
Operating revenue                20.2    23.3    33.5    37.0    37.8    3a.5    45.2
Operating income                  3.0     3.4     9.8     3.6     2.9     2.0     6.9
Capital Expenditure             24.4    53.7    23.7      9.3     1.9     1.9     2.2
Net fixed assets in operation    68.3    72.8    76.9   154.9   144.8   134.8   125.0
Long-term debt                   13.4   29.9    53.1    66.6    69.5    65.4    57.3
Cash at end of year               1.3     2.0     7.5    15.6    22.8    31.4    39.4
Rate of return on net fixed asset  3.7   4.3    15.4      3.2     2.0     1.6     5.4
Self-financing ratio (X)         38.4   19.7    21.6    89.5   173.8   521.2   499.6
Operating ratio (%)              84.9    85.3    70.6    90.2    92.4    94.7    84.8
Debt as % of debt and equity     12.4    18.5    28.1    34.0    35.8    35.6    33.2



- 94 -
Annex 23
Page 1 of 4
L.IAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Assumptions to Financial Proiections
1.    Projections of main financial statements (Income Statements, Balance Sheets and Flow of Funds Statements) of the
three water companies of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou for the period 1991-1997 are in the Project File. Financial forecast
models were developed during project preparation using Lotus-123 on personal computers. Detailed projections of
investment program, loan parameters, fixed asset formation, operating costs, water demand and special fund calculations are
available in the project file. 1'hc following summarizes the bases on which projections are made.
2.    Inflation and Exchange Rates. Domestic inflation rates used in the projections are 10% pa. for 1991, 8% p;... for
19'2 and 5% p.a. thereafter. Foreign price increases are estimated at 9.0% p.a. for 1991. 1.1% p.a. for 1992 and 2.95% p.a.
thereafter. Fxchange rate for January 1991 was Y5.22 per US Dollar. It is assumed that exchange rate adjustments will,
on average, maintain purchasing power parity over the projection period.
INCOME STATFMENT
3.    Water Sales. Projections of sales are based on the "minimum demand" and maximum capacity figures given in Annex
2. Unaccounted-for water is estimated at 15% of production. It is assumed that whenever demand exceeds supply, the
shortfall would be borne by all categories of consumer proponionally.
4.    Average Tariffs. Average prices over the projection period for SWSC, FWSC AND YW.SC are derived as follows:



- 95 -                                   Annex 23
Page 2 of 4
Derivation of Average rariff
Year ending December 31              1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
SW_
Operating costs                       87.9   108.5  118.0   191.6  201.9   212.2  266.7
Interest chargeable to operations      2.4     5.5    8.6      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
Repayment met by net income            0.0     1.8    1.8      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
Employee Benefit Special Fund          2.5     2.7    2.9      3.0    3.2      3.3    3.5
Prodution Development Special Fund     1.7     1.8    1.9      2.0    2.1      2.2    2.3
Increase in working capital            0.0     0.0    0.0      3.9    0.0      0.0    0.0
Gross Operating Requirements          94A    120.3  133.2   200.5  207.2   217.7  272.6
Sales Volume (Min m3)                380.9   380.9  471.9   487.7  504.2   507.8  535.8
Minimum average tariff (fen/m3)       24.8    31.6   2&2    41.1   41.1    42.9   50.9
Average Tariff Used in Forecast       30.0    40.0   40.0    45.0   45.0    55.0   55.0
FWSC
Operating Costs                       20.5    21.8   23.0    42.3   51.3    53.0   69.1
Interest Cargeable to Operations       0.7     1.6    3.0      4.2    0.0      0.0    0.0
Amortization met by Net Income         0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       1.5    6.6
Production Development Special Fund    0.2     0.2    0.2      0.2    0.2      0.3    0.3
Employee Benefit Special Fund          0.3     0.3    0.3      0.4    0.4      0.4    0.4
Change in Working Capital              1.5     0.4    0.6      1.4    0.5      0.0    0.0
Gross Operating Requirement           23.1    243    27.2    48.5   52.4    55.2   76.4
Sales Volume (min m3)                 60.8    60.8   67.1    82.5   86.2    86.2   92.4
Minimum Average Tariff (fen/m3)       38.1    40.0   40.5    58.7   60.9    64.1   82.7
Average Tariff Used in Forecast       45.0    45.0   45.0    65.0   65.0    65.0   85.0
YWSC
Operating costs                       17.1    19.9   23.6    33.4   34.9    36.5   38.3
Interest chargeable to operations      0.6     1.5    1.8      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
Amortization met by net income         0.0     0.6    0.8      0.6    0.3      0.0    5.4
Employee Benefit SF                    0.6     0.7    0.8      0.8    0.8      0.9    0.9
Production Development Special Fund    0.1     0.1    0.1      0.1    0.1      0.1    0.2
Increases in working capital           0.0     0.7    1.1      0.7    0.3      0.0    0.0
Gross Operating Requirement           18.4    23.5   28.2    35.6   36.5    37.5   44.8
Sales volume (mln m3)                 40.3    46.7   51.5    57.0   58.2    59.2   60.2
Minimum average tariff (fen/rnl3)     45.8    50.4   54.8    62.5   62.8    63.3   74.4
Average Tariff Used in Forecast       50.0    50.0   65.0    65.0   65.0    65.0   75.0
5.    Operating Costs. Energy, material, salary and water resource costs are based on detailed projections of unit costs
and production levels resulting from the expansion programs. Combined depreciation and maintenancc rate for
pipeworks is about 7%. For other fixed assets, depreciation is taken at 4.0% to 4.5% and maintenance at 3.3% to 4.5%
of gross fixed assets in operation. Sales tax is at 3% of gross operating revenue. Activity of the Depreciation Special
Fund, Maintenance Special Fund and Staff Bonus Special Fund are derived in the tables entitled "Special Fund
Calculationse available in the Project File.
6.    Interest & Amortization Excenses. Detailed terms and calculations of each loan are included in the Project File.
The IDA Credit is assumed to be onlent at 5.5% p.a. interest and 0.5% p.a. commitment charge, 15 years maturity
including 5 years of grace. In compliance with current practice, interests during construction are not capitalized, they
are charged to operations as due. After construction is completed, interest and amortization for each loan are being
paid for out of the depreciation fund of the scheme it finances, up to 80% for the first three years and up to 50%
thereafter. Any remaining repayment will be met as a distribution of net income. Detailed calculations are included
in the table "Interest and Loan Repayment Met by Depreciation Special Fund" in the Project File.



- 96  -                                      Anttiex  23
Page 3 of 4
7.     Distribution ot Net lncomc. Staff Benefit and Rewined Earming reprcsent annual alkloations to these tAo
internal speciail funds. They arc expecied tO increase in accordance with inflation. Remittance to (iosernnient represents
net income after authoriied distributions. Ihese funds are being remitted in cash to various lcvcs of authorits, usually
on a monthly basis.
BAIANCE SIElT
8.     Inventories have been projected to take into account general inflation as well as expanded letvls of operatlon
and construction.
9.     Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable from water sales are assumed to be 2q to 47, or about 7 to 14 days'
revenue. 'Ihis is generally attainable because major consumers pay their bills through direct debit from bank accounts
and delay in payments is uncommon. Accounts receivable from other sources represent the water companics' sideline
business income for providing contractual services for minor constructions and installations. Collection of non-operating
income is usually more difficult and often delayed.
10.    Fixed Assets. The Chinese financial system has so far not adopted the concept of revaluation of fixed assets.
In fact, in the past, only a portion (about 90% in the water supply sector) of the total cost of construction was
transferred upon completion from the books of the construction units to the consolidated balance sheets of the operating
water supply companies. In the projections, construction work-in-progress are consolidated in the water companies
balance sheets, and are assumed to be 100% accounted for upon completion. Detailed schedules titled "Capital
Expenditures", "Fixed Asset Additions" and "Construction WIP" are included in the Project File.
11.    Government Funds includes all paid in equity, plus transfers to Government for loan repayment mct by
distribution of net income.
12.    Special Funds is derived in the "Special Fund Calculations" tables. It represents the cumulative balance
remaining in the various special funds at the end of a given year.
FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
13.    Capacity Augmentation Charges represent collections from industrial users for quota increases. Current charges
are Y200, Y300 and Y600 per m3 per day for consumers of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou respcctively. Per unit charge
is expected to increase in line with inflation for SWSC and FWSC. Quantity is a function of incremental sales to
industries.
14.    Self-supply Water Resources Fund represents payments made by industrial consumers for the use of self-supplied
water. Current rates are Y 0.15, Y 0.03 (to be increased to Y 0.10 from 1991 on) and Y 0.03 per m3 per day for uscrs
of Shenyang, Fuxin and Yingkou. These rates are not expected to change with inflation for Shenyang and Fuxin over
the forecast period. Quantity is detailed in the demand forecast schedules.
15.    Above-quota Penalty Charges are applied to the difference between actual consumption and quota of major
industrial consumers. This system differs from an increasing block tariff as the revenue is not treated as part of the
water revenue. The water companies have the discretion to charge up to S times the regular rate. An average of 3
times ts used for projection purposes.
16.    Government Equity Contributions have been taken to cover all local cost requirements for capital constructions
not provided by other sources. This is generally consistent with projections made by municipal finance bureaus. Dctails
are included in the "Capital Expenditures" tables in the Project File.
17.    Special Fund Constructions represent capitalized renovations, minor expansions, overhauls and staff housing
financed by the various special funds. Operation of special funds are derived in the detailed "Special Fund Calculations"
tables.
18.    Increase in Workin, Cat,ital represents the excess of the current year's current assets (net of cash) over current
liabilities, less the excess of the previous year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.



- 97 -                                        Annex 23
Page 4 4f 4
19.    Net Special Fund Fxenditurcs. Gross special fund expenditure is the aggregate amount actually spent from
the various special funds in a particular year. Net expenditure is derived by subtracting capitalized special fund
consiructions and debt service met by depreciation and maintenance funds from the gross figure.



-98 -                           Annex 24
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Calculation of Self-Finacing Ratics (1991-1997)
Yuan Million
Year ended December 31        1991     1992      1993     1994     1995     1996     l997
swsc
Average Capital Expenditure   182.1    173.6    159.9    159.6    205.7    172.0    150.0
Internally Generated Cash      63.8    91.8    118.3    139.9    140.3   185.7    192.2
Other User Charges             47.9     54.1     30.5     27.5     28.9     42.2     30.8
(less) Operational Requirements    45.4  59.5    94.6     86.5     81.1    117.8    108.0
Cash Available for Invcstment  66.3     86.4     54.1     80.8     88.1    110.1    115.0
Remittanmc. to Govermment      24.3     35.2     57.4     23.6     19.S     60.4     20.0
Eared Cash                    90.7    121.6    111.5    104.5    107.6    170.5    135.0
Self-financing Ratio (%)       36.4    49.8      33.8     50.7     42.8     64.0     76.7
SFR on Earned Cash(%)         49.8      70.0     69.7     65.5     52.3     99.1     90.0
FWSC
Average Capital Expenditure    35.3     58.6     84.3     90.8     84.8     52.5     35.6
InternaDy Generated Cash       12.7     10 6     11.1     19.6     22.7     21.4     37.5
Other User Charges              2.5      0.6      2.5      5.8      1.7      1.4      4.4
(less) Operational Requirements  11.2    8.0      8.5     15.1     16.8     13.5      19.0
Cash Available for Investment  4.0       3.3      5.1     10.3      7.6      9.3     22.9
Remittances to Govermment       6.0      3.8      4.0      7.0      4.5      1.3      2.6
Earned Cash                    10.0      7.0      9.1     17.3     12.1     10.6     25.5
Self-financing Ratio (%)       11.3      5.6      6.0     11.3      9.0     17.8     64.4
SFR on Earned Cash(%)         28.3      12.0     10.8     19.0     14.3     20.2     71.6
YWSC
Average Capital Expenditure    33.0     33.9     28.9     11.6      4.4      2.0      2.1
Internally Generated Cash      9.4      9.7      16.6     19.1     18.6     17.9     23.0
Other User Charges              7.0      3.6      3.5      3.9      1.3      1.4       1.5
(leas) Operational Requirements  3.7     6.5     13.8     12.6     12.3      8.9     14.2
Cash Available for Investment  12.7      6.7      6.2     10.4      7.6     10.4      10.3
Remitnces to Govemment          1.8      0.6      6.5      2.3      1.8      1.1      0.5
Earned Cash                    14.5      7.3     12.7     12.7      9.4     11.5     10.8
Self-financing Ratio (%)       38.4     19.7    21.6      89.5    173.8    521.2    499.6
SFR on Eaned Cash (9)         43.9      21.6    43.9    108.8    213.9    577.8    525.2



- 99 -                                    Annex 25
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRARUCTURE PROJECT
Shenyang: Bus Company and Trolley Bus Company
Summary of Financdal Results 1982.1988
(Yuan million)
Item                      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988
Bus Comoany
Expenditure:
Operating Expenditure    17.40     18.67    20.25     23.91     27.25    33.96     34.70
Non-operating Expenditure   0.66    050      0.56      0.82      1.13     1.19      1.31
Taxation Payments         OA9       0.58     0.63      0.65      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Recurrent Expenditure    18.55  19.75     21.44    2538      28.38    35.15     36.01
Income:
Fare Revenue             16.20     19.17    21.00     21.78     2433     29.41     30.75
Other Revenue              n/a      0.42      1.15     1.90      1.44      1.37     1.51
Total Income                          19.59     X 15    23.68      25.77    30.78     32.76
Net Profit on Recurrent Costs         (0.16)    0.71     (1.70)    (2.61)    (4.37)    (3.25)
Trolley Bus Comnany
Expenditure:
Operating Expenditure    1432      14.90     16.93    19.38     21.96    27.22     33.65
Non-operating Expenditure   0.44    0.46     0.55      0.72      1.45     1.07      1.34
Urban Construction Tax    0.74      0.89     0.94      0.96      1.11     0.57      0.02
Taxation Payments         0.46      0.55     0.58      0.63      0.00     0.31      0.27
Total Recurrent Expenditure    15.96  16.80     19.00    21.69     2452      29.17    35.28
Income:
Fare Revenue             15.26     18.34     19.35    19.74    22.89     27.13     26.92
Other Income               n/a      0.43      1.21     2.68      1.49     1.17      1.57
Total Income                          18.77     20-56    22.42     2438     2830      28.49
Net Profit on Recurrent Costs          1.97      1.56     0.73     (0.14)    (0.87)    (6.79)
Source: operators



- 100 -                                        Annex 26
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Muticipal Finances (1987-1994)
Yuan Million
1987     198S     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     Total
-------- Acturl ---------   ----------------- Projected ---  1990-94
SHENYANG MUNICIPAL FINANCE BUREAU (SMFBI
REVENUES
Revenues                           2552.85  2798.37  3324.14  3211.97  3372.57   354120   3718.26  4090.46  1793446
Extra-budgetary Revenues              N.A.     N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.            N.A.     N A       N A
of which. Urbn                      438.49   307.35   425.17   518.72   386.98   406.16   426.29   46892   2207.07
Urbantas % of Revenues                  17       1S        13       16        11       11        11        11       12
EXPENDITURES
Expenditures                       1218.27   1448.23  2052.29   1543.18   1700.41   1873.42  2063.81   2270.19  9451.Oi
Extra-budgetary Expeoditures          N.A.     N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.            N.A.    N.A.    N.A.
of which: Urban                     348.61    418.92   387.85   437.90   389.62   416.90   446.41    489.95  2180.78
Urban as % of Expenditures              29       29        19       28        23       22        22       22        23
Water                            36.35    61.50    52.50    93.10    75.83    78.70       81.71    89.90   419.24
Water as % of Urban                 10       is       14        21       19        19        18       18        19
Project - proposed by SMPB       10.00    50.00    50.00    75.00    60.00    60.00       65.00    50.00   310.00
Project - requited               18.00    20.00    79.51    124.56    92.41     50.95      4.59     0.05   272.56
Project as % of Urban               5         5       21        28       24        12        1         0        12
PUXIN MUNICIPAL FINANCE BUREAU (FMFB)
REVENUES
Revenues                            248.13   285.68   317.73   348.89   333.78   422.16   464.37   470.37  2039.57
Extra-budgetary Revenues            157.31   227.70   238.80   267.57   239.00   313.10   338.15    346.00   1503.82
Total                               405.44    513.38   556.53   616.46   572.78   735.26   802.52   816.37   3543.39
of which: Urban                      45.27    50.34    50.10    50.05    61.25    65.90    58.25    65.31   300.76
urbanas % oftotal                       11       10         9        8        11        9         7        8         8
EXPENDITURES
Expenditures                        274.24   288.35   317.73   348.89   383.78   422.16   464.37   470.37  2089.57
Extra-budgetary Expenditures        166.42   224.00   239.92   266.50   285.69   308.96   332.00    356.00   1549.15
Total                               440.66   512.35   557.65   615.39   669.47   731.12   796.37    826.37  3638.72
of which: Urban                      39.86    51.61    44.61      58.20    61.15    65.75     54.32    66.11    305.53
Urban as % of total                      9       10         8        9         9        9         7        8         8
Project - proposed by FMFB                                    1.50      3.50     6.00      5.50     1.50    18.00
Project - required                                            6.59      9.10    24.69    21.02     10.33    71.73
Project as % of Urban                                           11       15        38       39        16       23
Contribution by Provincial Finance                                 5.00    10.00    20.00     20.00      0.00    55.00
YINOKOU MUNICIPAL FINANCE BUREAU "PMPB)
REVENUES
Revenues                            434.72   480.49   550.02   550.66   593.40   611.00   624.50   643.24  3022.80
Extra-budgetary Revenues            340.76   364.00   449.19   407.04   431.46   448.73   466.67   480.66  2234.56
Total                               775.48   844.49   999.21    957.70   1024.86   1059.73  1091.17   1123.90  5257.36
of wLich: Urban                      52.69    52.99    63.63    63.79    65.81    67.61       69.10    71.17    337.48
Urban   % oftotal                        7        6         6        7         6        6         6        6         6
EXPENDrrURES
Expenditures                        273.78   282.94   349.86   303.60   314.53   325.91    338.05   342.01   1624.10
Extra-budgetary Expenditures        335.99   359.88   462.29   396.76   416.60   437.43   459.30   473.04  2183.13
Total                               609.77   642.82   812.15   700.36   731.13   763.34    797.35   815.05  3807.23
of which: Urban                      52.32    52.46    60.66    62.31      64.90    66.23    67.S4    69.56   330.54
Urban as % of total                      9        8         7        9         9        9         8        9         9
Water                             2.40     2.58
Water as % of Urban                 S         S
Project - proposed by FMFB                                    5.00     10.00    11.00      0.00     0.00    26.00
Project - required                                            0.04      4.94    16.95    10.63      4.53     37.09
Project as % of Urban                                            0        8        26       t          7        it
Contribution by Provincial Finance                                                   10.00    10.00     10.00    30.00



- 101 -                        Annex 27
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Computation of IRR
SHENYANG
Year   Capital    Operating   Operating    ProjeCt  Water   Water Rev.    Other    Net Cash
Cost       Cost   CosR (Proj) Cost Stream   Revenue  from Proj.    Charges    Flow
(Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y mlin)
1990      91.43      46.20                 91.43      114.27                           -91.43
1991     162.94      46.90                 162.94     114.27                          -162.94
1992     138.42      48.70                 138.42     114.27                  20.9   -117.52
1993      26.12      49.70                 26.12      114.27                  23.4      -2.72
1994       8.20      65.80       16.10     24.30      141.57      27.30       4.30       7.30
1995       0.08      67.40       17.70      17.78     146.31      32.04       3.80      18.06
1996                 70.80      21.10      21.10      151.26      36.99       3.40      19.29
1997                 70.70      21.00      21.00      152.34      38.07       3.10      20.17
1998                 70.70      21.00      21.00      155.95      41.68       3.10      23.78
1999                            21.00      21.00                  41.68                 20.68
2000                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
2001                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
2002                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
2003                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
2004                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
2005                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                 20.68
2006                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
2007                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
2008                             21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
to 2038                           21.00      21.00                 41.68                  20.68
Discount Rate          3.0%        3.2%       3.4%       3.6%       3.8%       4.0%       4.2%
NPW                      85         68         52         36          22          9         -4
IRR=        4.1%



- 102 -                      Annex 27
Page 2 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Computtios of IRR
FUXIN
Year   Capital   Operaung   Operating    Project    Water   Water Rev.    Other    Net Caah
Coet       Cost   Cost (Proj) Cost Stream   Revenue  from Pro3.    Charges   Flow
(Y mln)    (Y mlin)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y Mtn)    (Y min)    (Y mln)
1990       6.70      11.84                  6.70      20.39                            -6.70
1991      20.70      12.80                 20.70      23.66                           -20.70
1992      51.67      13.68                 51.67      27.31                           -51.67
1993      33.07      13.47                 33.07      31.36                           -33.07
1994       8.62      16.99       3.52      12.14      35.57       4.20       1.55      -7.94
1995                 21.97       8.50       8.50      40.21       8.85       3.93       0.35
1996                 22.52       9.05       9.05      47.20      15.84       0.79       6.79
1997                 22.14       8.67       8.67      52.37      21.00                 12.33
1998                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                 12.33
1999                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                 12.33
2000                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                  12.33
2001                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                 12.33
2002                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                  12.33
2003                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                  12.33
2004                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                  12.33
2005                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                  12.33
2006                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                  12.33
2007                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                 12.33
2008                             8.67       8.67                 21.00                  12.33
to 2038                           8.67       8.67                 21.00                 12.33
Discount Rate          5.0%       5.5%       6.0%       6.5%       7.0%       7.5%       8.0%
NPW                     55         41          29         19         10          3         -4
MR =j 



- 103 -                        Annex 27
Page 3 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTU  PROJECT
Computatio of IRR
YINGKOU
Year   Capital   Operating   operating    Projed    Waer   Water Rev.    Other       Net Cash
Coad       Codt   Cost (P oj) Cost Stream   Revenue  from Proj.    Charges    Flow
(Y mln)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y min)    (Y mln)    (Y mln)
1990       0.71       7.57                  0.71       15.75                            -0.71
1991      18.89       9.20                  18.89      18.86                           -18.89
1992      41.68       9.20                 41.68       19.55                           -41.68
1993      16.57      10.43        1.23      17.80      22.88       3.33                -14.47
1994       5.49      11.90       2.70        8.19      25.24       5.69                 -2.50
1995       0.08      13.65       4.45       4.53       27.93       8.38                  3.85
3996                 14.21       5.01       5.01       28.52       8.97                  3.96
1997                 14.70       5.50       5.50       29.00       9.45                  3.95
1998                 IS.15       5.95       5.95       29.50       9.95                  4.00
1999                 15.62       6.42       6.42       29.99      30.44                  4.02
2000                  16.09       6.89       6.89      30.92      11.37                   4.48
2001                  16.56      7.36        7.36      32.24      12.69                   5.33
2002                              7.36       7.36                 12.69                  5.33
2003                             7.36        7.36                 12.69                  5.33
2004                              7.36       7.36                 12.69                   5.33
2005                              7.36       7.36                 12.69                   5.33
2006                              7.36       7.36                 12.69                   5.33
2007                              7.36       7.36                 12.69                  5.33
2008                              7.36       7.36                 12.69                   5.33
to 2038                           7.36        7.36                 12.69                  5.33
Discount Rate          S.0%        5.5%       6.0%       6.5%       7.0%       7.5%        8.0%
NPW                       I         -5         -9        -13         -17        -20        -23
IRR =        5  .1%fw



- 104 -                    Annex 27
Page 4 of 4
CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Computation of IRR - Sensitivity Tests
SHENYANG                                  IRR
Cost                            Benefit Factor
Factor          0.90        0.95        1.00         1.05        1.10
0.90          3.6%         4.1%        4.7%        5.2%        5.7%
0.95          3.3%         3.9%        4.4%        4.9%        5.4%
1.00          3.0%        3.6%        4.1%        4.7%9c       5.2%
1.05          2.6%        3.3%        3.8%        4.4%         4.9%
1.10          2.3%        2.9%        3.6%         4.1%        4.79%
FUXIN                                     IRR
Cost                            Benefit Factor
Factor          0.90        0.95        1.00         1.05        1.10
0.90          7.0%         7.7%        8.3%        8.9%        9.5%
0.95          6.7%        7.4%         8.0%        8.6%        9.2%
1.00          6.4%        7.0%        7.7%         8.3%        8.9%
1.05          6.0%        6.7%        7.4%         8.0%        8.6%
1.10          5.7%        6.4%        7.1%         7.7%        8.3%
YINGKOU                                   IRR
Cost                            Benefit Factor
Factor          0.90        0.95        1.00         1.05        1.10
0.90          4.4%         5.2%        5.9%        6.6%        7.2%
0.95          4.0%         4.8%        5.5%        6.2%        6.8%
1.00          3.5%        4.3%        5.1 %        5.8%        6.5%
1.05          3.0%        3.9%        4.7%         5.4%        6.1%
1.10          2.5%        3.4%        4.2%         5.0%        5.7%



-I )  -                         Annex 2.8
l'd   ;t  I  'ii  3
CiiiNA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASl RUCTURE PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost
SHENYANG WATER COMPONENT
YEAR    Capital      Operating    Operating    Project    W'ater sold   Water sold
Cost        Cost    Cost (Proj.)   Cash Flow   (Mm3'year) fiom Proj.
(Y mrin)    (Y mln)      (Y min)     (Y mln)                 (Mm3/ycar)
1990        91.4         46.2                     91.4       380.8
1991       162.9         46.9                    162.9       380.9
1992       138.4         48.7                    138.4       380.9
1993        26.1         49.7                     26.1       380.9
1994         8.2         65.8        16.1         24.3       471.9         91.0
1995         0.1         67.4        17.7         17.8       487.7        106.8
1996                     70.8        21.1         21.1       504.2        123.3
1997                     70.7        21.0         21.0       507.8        126.9
1998                     70.7        21.0         21.0       535.8        154.9
1999                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2000                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2001                                 21.0         21.0                     154.9
2002                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2003                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2004                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2005                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2006                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2007                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2008                                  21.0        21.0                    154.9
2009                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2010                                 21.0         21.0                    154.9
2011                                  21.0        21.0                     154.9
2012                                  21.0        21.0                    154.9
Discount      Average Incremental
Rate             Cost        1
4.0%        0.39 Y per m3
6.0%        0.44 Y per m3
8.0%        0.51 Yperm3
10.0'c       0.58 Y per m3
Notes:  1. All costs are at 1990 prices.
2. A composite conversion factor of 1.0 (1.3 for foreign exchange and
0 5 for labor) has been applied on capital costs.
3. Average incremental cost is computed from dividing the discounted
project cash flow stream by the discounted stream of water sold from
the project. The ONPV function from Lotus 123 is used.
4. Operating costs include energy, materials, salaries, administration,
maintenance and water resource charges.



- I (f -                       AnIIn1ILX 28
Paigv 2 of 3
CIIINA
LIAONING UJRBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJEC'IT
Average Incremental Cost
FUJXIN WATER COMPONENT
YEAR    Capital      Operating    Operating     Project    Water sold   Water sold
Cost        Cost    Cost (Proj.)   Cash Flow   (Mm3/vear) from Proj.
(Y min)     (Y mln)      (Y mln)      (Y min)                 (Mm3lvear)
1990        6.70         11.84                     6.70        57.59
1991       20.70         12.80                    20.70        60.78
1992       51.67         13.68                    51.67        60.78
1993       33.07         13.47                    33.07        60.78
1994        8.62         16.99        3.52        12.14        67.13         6.35
1995                    21.97         8.50         8.50        82.52        21.74
1996                    22.52         9.05         9.05        86.19        25.41
1997                    22.14         8.67         8.67        86.17        25.39
1998                                  8.67         8.67        92.37        31.59
1999                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2000                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2001                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2002                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2003                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2004                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2005                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2006                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2007                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2008                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2009                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2010                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2011                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
2012                                  8.67         8.67                     31.59
Discount      Average Incremental
Rate              Cost
4.0%        0.63 Y per m3
6.0%        0.71 Yperm3
8.0%        0.79 Y per m3
10.0%        0.89 Y per m3
Notes: 1. All costs are at 1989 prices.
2. A composite conversion factor of 1.0 (1.3 for foreign exchange and
0.5 for labor) has been applied on capital costs.
3. Average incremental cost is computed from dividing the discounted
project cash flow stream by the discounted stream of water sold from
the project. The @NPV function from Lotus 123 is used.
4. Operating costs include energy, materials, salaries, administration,
maintenance and water resource charges.



- l   -                      Anintx 28
1'.'y   3   't   3
CHIINA
LIAONING URIJiAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost
YINGtKOIJ WATER COMP1IONENT
YEAR    Capital      Operating    Operating    Project    Water sold   Water sold
Cost        Cost    Cost (Prol.)   Cash Flow   (Mm3/year) from Proj.
(Y mln)     (Y min)      (Y min)     (Y min)                 (Mm3lyear)
1990        0.71         7.57                     0.71       35.00
1991       18.89         9.20                    18.89       40.31
1992       41.68         9.20                    41.68       40.31
1993        16.57       10.43         1.23       17.80       46.66         6.35
1994        5.49        11.90        2.70         8.19       51.49        11.18
1995        0.08        13.65        4.45         4.53       56.99        16.68
1996                    14.21        5.01         5.01       58.17        17.86
1997                    14.70        5.50         5.50       59.22        18.91
1998                    15.15        5.95         5.95       60.24        19.93
1999                    15.62        6.42         6.42       62.09        21.78
2000                    16.09        6.89         6.89        63.94       23.63
2001                    16.56        7.36         7.36        65.80       25.49
2002                                  7.36        7.36                    25.49
2003                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2004                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2005                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2006                                  7.36        7.36                    25.49
2007                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2008                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2009                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2010                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2011                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
2012                                 7.36         7.36                    25.49
Discount    Average Incremental
Rate             Cost
4.0%        0.57 Y per m3
6.0%        0.64 Y per m3
8.0%        0.71 Y per m3
10.0%        0.78 Y per m3
Notes: 1. All costs are at 1989 prices.
2. A composite conversion factor of 1.0 (1.3 for foreign exchange and
0.5 for labor) has been applied on capital costs.
3. Average incremental cost is computed from dividing the discounted
project cash flow stream by the discounted stream of water sold from
the project. The (NPV function from Lotus 123 is used.
4. Operating costs include energy, materials, salaries, administration,
maintenance and water resource charges.



Ainnex 29
igt-  I of 2
(C IlINA
LIAONING(  l'14lAN  INFRASTRUITREL  PROJE'(CT
U rla.i Irans%p4rt C'nolntptent
l coiiiiitiic Anat4 sis: IBasic Assumptionis atd I)ata
I            1uBenclt\ lor the tr.attic corridor irnprocnicnts werc ciiculdtcd using savings in schicle operating cosis.
perso)nallinmc xis ing~ nd re.lucedl a.ciluent . ,t ( h.ingc in thxe pairameters with projcCt iinpr ccnicilts Acre dcrivcd
trom the transport modclling undcrt.ikcn during the projcct prcparation. T1he total network VO('s were estitr(jed using
a cV iiputer model 'Ahich calculates (he cos.ts based upon the each corridor's volume/capacity ratio. Based upon this
ratio, the model estimates the vehicle spcds and time from which the VOC arc calculated and summcd tO give the
nrtAocrk operating costs. Ihe differcnce in the network opcranng costs from the "do-nothing" case with the improved
case, as dectrmined hy the model, are the henefits.
2.            T1he capital costs of the components are hased on the required improvcments as determined during the
fcasibhility studies. Costs included land, works and equipment for each project component (all taxes and duties were
excluded). Annual costs for increased road maintenance has also been included.
3.           The base case comprises the present transport network plus any committed projects. Sincc there are
network effects and the complcmcntary nature of these corridor improvements, it is inappropriate to compare each
corridor improvements with the base case. TIhe analysis included estimates for the future strcams of economic costs and
benefits comrlred with the base case and allows these to be compared on the basis of the economic rate of return
(E.RR). All financial costs were converted to reflect the opportunity cost of the resources within the China economy.
4.            Since the vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings are primarily time related and since there were no
reduction in corridor lengths, the following values for vehicle times were used:
Value of TIime Saved (Yuan/Veh-Hr)
Bic_Cle               Car          Truck          Bus          Trolley
V(C                         0.00           4.70          3.83          10.27         11.17
Time Savings /             0.25           1.38          0.00          22.00         20.00
Ij     I be user time costs assumes a value of Yuan 1.0/hr while on
" paid" or worker time and Yuan 0.25/br while on unpaid time.
The savings are based upon running times taking into account the effect of road design and condition on the basic
operating costs of fuel, oil, tires, vehicle maintenance and depreciation. The average number of passengers was estimated
by vehicle type.
5.            The traffic management corridor improvements show an overall ERR of 43% which is well in excess of
the cost of capital in China. The high ERR is consistent with experience elsewhere in low-cost traffic management
improvements. The first year rate of return (FYRR), an indicator of the urgency of the project, is also a very high 47%.
A sensitivity analysis indicates that the combined effect of a 20% increase in project costs and a 20% reduction in
benefits reduces the ERR to 29%. It is also worthy to note that personal travel time benefits contributed only about
17% to the total benefits; when these benefits were deleted from the benefit stream, the ERR was reduced to 36%.
Benefits from reduction of a xident costs account for about one and one-half percent of the total benefits. The
contribution to the ERR ot'ie accident reduction benefit is about one to two percent. Thus the net ERR using only
vehicle operating costs would be about 41%. The economic evaluation summary is given in Table I of this Annex.



CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table l: Urban Transport Component
Economic Evaluation Summary
1991    1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    2002   2003
A. COSTS
1. Financial Cost of Project
a) Land Demolition and Relocation          8.10   12.15
b) Works                                  15.41    23.12
c) Equipment                               3.28    5.91
d) Net O&M Cost I/                                 0.38    039    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0 39        0 39
Total             26.79   41.57    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39    0 39    0 39    0 39    0 00
2. Economic Coat 2/
a) Land and Demolition                     5.62    8.43
b) Works                                  17.42   26.12
c) Equipment                               4.91    7.37
d) Net O&M Cost                                    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0 44    0 44    0 44
Total             27.95   42.36    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0 44    0 44    0 00
B. ECONOMIC BENEFITS
1. Vehicle Operating Costs
a) Bicycle                                                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000    0 00    0 00                       "O
b) Public Transport                                        0.39    0.39    0.40    0.40    0.41      0.41    0.41    0 42    0 42    0 43                     1
c) Other Road Vehicles                                    26.20   27.64   29.17   30.77   32.40   33.60    34.77   3599   37 25   38.55
2. Personal Travel Time
a) Bicycles                                                 1.57    1.58    1.60    1.61     1.63    1.64    1.65    16.6     16 7    1 68
b) Public Transport                                        0.72    0.73    0.74    0.75    0.76    0.78    077    0.78    0 78    0 79
c) Other Road Vehicles                                     3.51     3.71    3.91    4.13    4.35    4.60    4.66    483    4 99    5 17
3. Accidents                                                     O.56    0.59    0.62    0.6e    0.70    0.72    0.74    0.77    o.80    0.83
4. Residual Value                                                                                                                                  3377
Total                      0.00   32.95   34.65   36.43   38.32   40.30   41.64   43.02   44 44   45 92   47 45   33 77
C. ECONOMIC EVALUATION RESULTS
l. Bse Results                                       2. Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rate of Return
a) Economic Rate of Retumn         43%             a) Increase Costs by 20%          36%  d) Delete Personal Travel Time Savings       36%                >
b) First Year Rate of Return       47%             b) Decrease Benefits by 20%       35%  e) Delete Bicycle User Benefits              41%
c) Net Present Value (Y'm) 31      123             c) Combination of a) and b)       29%  f) Delete Public Transport User Benefits     42%
Note I/ Net cost of operations and maintenance with project compared with the Base Cost.                                                                         C \c
21 Pinancial cost adjusted for taxes and sadow prices.
3/ Using -conomic discount rate of 12%.



- I lo -                            AnleLtx 30
*II INA
.IAONIN'(; URBAN INFRASTRLUIUVRE PR')I'I,1E(1
Selecte( I)octicienits und D)atu uvailable ill Ilroject File
Item No.                                   Description
1.        Liaoning 35 Years (I 449 - 1984) - Economic and Social Development Results.
Liaoning Statistics Bureau, (in Chinese). 1984.
2.         Liaoning Province Urban Studics: Rivcr Basin Management Project - Basin
Planning Report (6 volumes). John Connell Group. March 1989.
3.        Shenyang Watcr Supply - Fcasibility Study Report (3 volumes). John Connell
Group. August 1988. Addenda. March and April 1899.
4.         Fuxin Water Supply - Feasibility Study Report (4 volumes). John Connell
Group. August 1988. Addenda. February and April 1989.
5.         Yingkou Water Supply - Feasibility Study Report (3 volumes). John Connell
Group. February 1989. Addendum. April 1989.
6.         Liaoning Urban Traffic and Transport Study (5 volumes). Pak-Poy &
Kneebone * Travers Morgan * R. J. Nairn & Partners. September 1988.
7.         Liaoning Urban Traffic and Transport Study: Public Transport Projects -
Feasibility Report, Shenyang. Pak-Poy & Kneebone * Travers Morgan * R.
J. Nairn & Partners. September 1988.
8.        Traffic Management, Corridor Improvement and Infrastructure Projects -
Feasibility Report, Shenyang. Pak-Poy & Kneebone 0 Travers Morgan 0 R.
J. Nairn & Partners. September 1988.
9.         Basic Research Report on Comprehensive City Traffic Control Plans with
Particular Reference to the Major Cities of Liaoning Province. Urban
Construction and Renewal Project Office of Liaoning Province. March 1987.
10.        Liaoning Province Traffic and Transport Project: Preliminary Assessment
Report. Pak-Poy & Kneebone * Travers Morgan * R. J. Nairn & Partners.
November 10, 1987.
11.        Historical (1986-1990) Financial Statements (Income Statements, Balance
Sheets and Flow of Funds Statements) for SWSC, FWSC and YWSC.
12.        Financial Projections and Supporting Schedules (1991-1997) for SWSC, FWSC
and YWSC.
13.        Working Notes.



Q     FI N A
BAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
T   E L              .cNiG
R~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~ o                                                         o
-?      t~~~~~~~-
Rlvers ~~~~~~~~~~..                                                                                                                           k.b' (!w
P'efect.re Bovndo'.es                                        ,                                           .       _       .  SF U    x.  UN'
0 T.,~~~~~~~~~~
Proyinco Soundorles                                                t\                           ,-,,-)'                                   TI LI        C Kog-n tog-C
-  - Irrterootronol Roundories                                                                     J1                                                                       H--d.
> t) ~~~~~~~~~~~oZhongo.:                                            0tlc              4.
(            .>                f        U XI N  SHT   / >-"-                                                                           ½ <
J. ..T. R;  2   A  t  ,   s  ' g $ Us'n   v   __ -~~  <   .  '  r            -           4          f
}    t i->           rPtOO    >4                 t1.hn  .                   tQi. <F  US H UN                                V   <
HEBEIja                                    Choortant ~/       a   ,g'  Bellha.o  /   V                 SHENYAO ,  ,                                  C-,,
S                             9jne                         /                           7           toon~         Saz* )qcz  g ,Dng..                                                  I "\  
'.c..~ -,                  HA   O   Y   ANG                                           i   c- )oon!  a   S H        Q                              Huo7nrenO      7     r      1
HEBEI               .~  .O9O. 4          tto                    -  Jinc    h -ehon. -i Sian '-                                         B EXooh Tsntt    -, _ 
.) a    <n -  t    -  ° I                    XDowoC  t4tNS8AbW                           /¾'< J                ^1* 
, v        SHI      ,                t           .         K-ond-n
fAN DON G
:~oo _                                     S H  I   ,
.. N GKOLJ            OXoyan                         *.    DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S
SI         -A Sondong-0/                                        REPUBLIC OF KOREA
aninShi    JAPAN                                                                                                D  A  L I A  N
nSh,    Q                                                                                                                 S H  I           *
andong                                                                                                   _ 1FU Xlo             0 Zh-ooghe
longou                                                                                              *  \           o Cb.ngdtonn
i   Snn.,   Shongho ,                                                                           . '
ZS..ong                                                                                            ,,3Sli
ToUnon                                                                                    I,5JJ  Son                                                                                                  _    .
:.ol                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dolion.-'4°' 
Shuishi-ongO
PHILIPPINES
12,0122r                                                                                                                                     *J



It I N  A
IAWNUINA. UR13AN INFRASTRLJCTLJRF PROJECT                                           NEI m<()N( A)I
I t !\ A  I\ it    M  )JI['P     ( ({)MPO(NLN I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itk andlf
. flulwJipmg Station,                                               Ar* . p 
tIIXT-RI                                           A K 
f _   XIR.s,,ts,,, TIN(
--    :lt>e, mii                                                           -           -j  ;          
I                                                                          K-.... l(.zst.>I( 
-Q-~   Re .i... Irvujd                                                      t'r ,  -/              (
RI=t"se 'if
0             10      15     20
FeeserI                                             FUI   I      I        I
KILOMETERS                      92A.OR
)-'ixN                                                                                      199--
NlOVrEMBFR 1989



ti I N A
IIAoNIN(. tJRBAN IN RASIRUC:TURF PROJFCT                                             NFI M&)NA( )t
I  \IN,  X I    I I'f't P',  (O)MI'() NFNT
-   I F tII%, -)O ISdhiil>>lll re'-. 1- '  P,etrratrn-nt ;Works
rIr lr vai -ri                                                 "'" t \,kA
:                                                              A,
_  r,,<-    Roljddv   s  g
0    - 5    10      15    20      7 
_, 1 Id                            I                         I       I       I
kv,vrvoir% ~ ~     ~        ~      ~       ILMEER
Re ,-l t-  ,    y  / '.Zz,'f;/X.to/ZtnOi       19-
/  A   0                                 v       _         eD  ^'<J. .e z-<I 0  r 2
\eS       <   \  Ao-f/-                       4 KILOMETE1S
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVME 1989FUIN>



CHINA
LIAONING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJ ECT
SHENYANG URBAN TRANSPORT
COMPONENT
Projet I C orridors
Existing Roads
I   i-I----- Railrodds
>          ~~~~~~Built Up AreasI
9           (;~~~~~reen Areafs dnd [larks                     1
f~~~~~~~~~hn ShanK Lu                    m>ll R/
If~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-   ..              <c    L \( )NlEt\   lNt.LRBAN INiR.\slRUC IURL PR()IL( I
)',        *~~~ IN \ ,K\< )(  V, \If  1;  St1'1'1 *  WN)1' )NIN I 
,Mi x1.,1 R. ,.w         I'R(  I!   T
/-\!  )   ~~t ''    N.1                             I '       \        ,1          .......1.) 1 , 
f_t 1R R.
Wv,>x:, PRc-x  Ta., ^       tR
YIN
\X\ l / Re>.er>fHBR (   1
J <-5b    4e,,,~~~~~~~~~~R,,rvl
K110\41 It R',                                           rwvl
liBRl RN 1`991



( t1HNa
LIAONING URBAN IN[RASTRU(J[URI PRolf( I
SHI StAN(A . V AA fR SUlPlPIN ( (   1'()1 )Nt \ I
lR( )If ( I
M.4a,n Ir4iis,|1)&%,, f1 ,,i
I )p-ttrlI nuti i-n I'ip ilt I is
I LII tIK
I      aet-   ( 4it1dIllS
Shifesh, Welifieid                                                                   I XISsIIN(.
(Phase 1)                                                                        Welli geid-
\  I)Oi.1rihut,isn  WmAir.  and Pul rpitlg4 st.san,m
Shifechi Welifield                    |r*a tmrnnt Wqrk% ad P I'timFstg '."tat i-
(Phase 2)                                                                                                          u
tJrban Areas
Main Roadds
Li Ba Yan                                           River,.
Treatment Works and
Pumping Station under                 
Construction
Intake under
FUSHUN          Constru< tion
SHENYANG
Nan Ta
Existing Distribution Work
and Pumping Station
Zhou Jai  Da Fan
Groundwater area
3 '                                                       KKlC)METi RS
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



