CREDIT NUMBER 2219-0-CHA
Project Agreement
(Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LIAONING PROVINCE
Dated       f2                 , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2219-0-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     1r'f     25              , 1991, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and LIAONING
PROVINCE (Liaoning).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-four
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
54,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Liaoning
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Liaoning, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereoy agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Liaoning declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, water supply and
public transport practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds (including local currency
funds), facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.


﻿-2-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Liaoning shall
otherwise agree, Liaoning shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(c)   Liaoning shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the
Project Municipalities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(d)   Liaoning shall cause each of the Project Municipalities
to: (i) relend to its respective Water Supply Company the portion
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used by such Water Supply
Company; and (ii) contract with its respective Water Supply Company
to carry out its respective portion of the Project and undertake
certain financial and operational obligations, all under a
subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, including those set forth in
Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Liaoning shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Liaoning shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   Liaoning shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Liaoning of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Liaoning shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of Liaoning responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   Liaoning shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Liaoning thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date   20 years after    the date of    this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Liaoning thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:            Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Liaoning:
Liaoning Provincial Government
Beiling Dajie
Shenyang, Liaoning Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
80039 LFAO CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Liaoning, or by Liaoning on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the Governor or such other person or persons as the
Governor shall designate in writing, and Liaoning shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
B-y-f    Regional Vice President
Asia
LIAONING PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7.-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for civil works for water supply contracts shall be
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, China may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Civil works   for water   supply   structures  and  corridor
improvement, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $23,000,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive


﻿-8-
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
3.    Civil works for the construction of the pipeline over the Hun
River, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,100,000, may be
carried out through force account procedures.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished Co the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment ou- of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
3.    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts in respect of which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 9 -
4.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Liaoning in carrying out the Project,
Liaoning shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:     Project Implementation
1.    Liaoning shall maintain and shall cause each of the Project
Municipalities to maintain the project offices established to
facilitate Project implementation, with functions and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to the Association, staffed by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
2.    Liaoning shall cause the training under Part C.3 of the
Project to be carried out in accordance with a program agreed with
the Association.
3.    Liaoning shall cause the resettlement under the Project to be
carried out in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association.
4.    Liaoning shall: (a) cause the study under Part C.2 of the
Project to be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and
timing agreed with the Association; (b) promptly upon completion of
the study, exchange views with the Association on the study; and
(c) thereafter, implement the study's recommendations, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
Part B:     Water Supply Companies
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the terms
and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be as set
out below:
1.    Each of the Water Supply Companies shall carry out its
respective portion of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with appropriate water supply, financial and
management practices.
2.    The terms and conditions for relending of the proceeds of the
Credit to the Water Supply Companies shall include, inter alia: (a)
interest payable at the variable rate payable on medium/long-term
Renminbi loans made by the People's Construction Bank of China; (b)
commitment charges at the rate of 0.5% per annum; (c) repayment
period of 15 years, including a grace period of five years; and (iv)
all foreign exchange risk to be borne by the respective Munici-
pality.


﻿- 11 -
3.    Each of the Water Supply Companies shall carry out an action
plan to improve its water metering, system leakage and staffing
levels in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Each of the Water Supply Companies shall:
(a)   maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition;
(b)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) and total capital expenditures (including construction
works financed by internal sources) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(d)   furnish  to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
5.    Each of the Water Supply Companies shall make adequate
arrangements to insure its assets in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
6.    Each of the Water Supply Companies shall prepare and furnish
to the Association by October 31 of each year, commencing
October 31, 1991 and ending October 31, 1996, financial forecasts
containing income statements, sources and applications of funds and
balance sheets for the next eight years.
7.    (a)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each
of the Water Supply Companies shall produce, for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991:


﻿- 12 -
(i)   total operating revenues equivalent to not less
than the sum of its: (A) total operating expenses;
and (B) financial obligations; and
(ii)   funds from water supply operations equivalent to
not less than 25% of the annual average of such
Water Supply Company's capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year, the previous fiscal year and the next fiscal
year.
(b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, each of
the Water Supply Companies shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared
by it and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that any of the Water Supply
Companies would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) for the fiscal years covered by such review, such Water Supply
Company shall promptly take all necessary measures (including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including ad-
ministration, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
and provision for depreciation.
(ii)   The term "financial obligations" means the sum
of: (A) interest and other charges on debt
chargeable to operations; (B) debt repayments in
excess of the amounts repayable from funds
accumulated from provisions for depreciation and
maintenance; (C) required allocations accounted
for as a distribution of net income; and (D) any
increase in working capital.
(iii)   The term "funds from water supply operations"
means the difference between:


﻿- 13 -
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations, consumer contributions in aid
of construction, net non-operating income
and any reduction in working capital other
than cash; and
(B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
tions, including taxes and pgyments in lieu
of taxes (excluding provision for depre-
ciation  and   other   non-cash  operating
charges), debt service requirements, all
cash distributions of surplus, increase in
working capital other than cash and other
cash outflows other than capital expen-
ditures.
(iv)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
(v)   The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
fiscal year.
(vi)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
all assets other than cash which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted into
cash within twelve months, including accounts
receivable, marketable securities, inventories
and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(vii)   The  term   "current   liabilities"  means   all
liabilities which will become due and payable ur
could under circumstances then existing be called
for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service


﻿- 14 -
requirements, and taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes.
(viii)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments on debt.
(ix)   The  term   "capital  expenditures"  means   all
expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets
related to operations.
(x)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


