Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE CfrY
Report No. 3133-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
February 18, 1981
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =        Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00                     =        MK 0.795
MK 1.00                     =        US$1.258
SDR 1.00                    =        US$1.275
MEASURES
1 meter                     =        3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                     0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)              =        2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
EPD      -   Economic Planning Division of the Office of the
President and Cabinet
IPA      -   Institute of Public Administration
JC       -   Junior Certificate
MBC      -   Malawi Broadcasting Corporation
MBS      -   Malawi Book Service
MCC      -   Malawi Correspondence College
MCE      -   Malawi Certificate of Education
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      -   Ministry of Education
MOW      -   Ministry of Works
PIU      -   Project Implementation Unit
PSLC     -   Primary School Leaving Certificate
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR O]FFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS ....            ..........     1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation ........           ............      1
Development Objectives and Trends .....         ....................         I
Manpower Situation and Needs ...............................                2
II.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM ..........................                 4
Overall Policy ................  .                        . .               4
Structure, Administration and Planning ..... ................               4
Primary Education ..................       .................                5
Secondary Education   ................................... .                 6
Secondary Teacher Training           .................................      8
Training of Middle and High Level Manpower              .     .    .        9
Non-formal Education        .......................................        10
Financing and Cost of Education                   ...                      10
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN TH15 SECTOR                   13
Past Experience and Lessons Learned ......           .................    13
Lending Strategy . .........................................              15
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Malawi
in June 1980 and comprised Mr. G. Sinclair (Architect/Mission Leader),
Mrs. N. Shields (Economist), Mr. L. Wolff (Education Planner),
Mr. C. Fuller (Public Administration Specialist/Consultant), and
Mr. C. Hammerschmidt (Architect/Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
IV. THE PROJECT ......                                  .. .  15
Objectives and Composition ................................        15
Secondary Education .......................................        16
Secondary Teacher Training ................................       17
Pre-investment Studies ....................................        18
Reporting and Evaluation ..................................        19
Female Participation in the Education System ...     ...........  19
Summary of Technical Assistance ...........................       19
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ...........................        20
Project Cost ........      ......................................  20
Financial Plan ............................................        22
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION , PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT              22
Implementation        ............................................  22
Procurement        ...............................................  24
Disbursements                      . . .    24
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................        25
Benefits         ..................................................  25
Risks        .....................................................  25
VIII. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................        25
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 1.   Forecast of High and Middle Level Manpower - 1980/1990
2.   Selected Higher Level Employment, 1979
3.   Comparative Education Indicators
4.   Secondary School Enrollments and Teacher Requirements - 1978-1990
5.   Public Enrollment Unit Cost and Recurrent Expenditure - Formal
Education - 1978/1990
6.   Expenditure on Education 1975/76 to 1979/80
7.   Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Costs
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1.   Full-time Enrollment and Population Pyramid, 1978
2.   Structure of the Formal Education System
3.   Organisation of the Ministry of Education
4.   Implementation Schedule
Annex 2 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP - IBRD No. 15278R



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
BASIC DATA 1979/80
General
Per Capita Income                                                  US$200
Annual Growth Rate (1966-77)                                       2.9%
Area (Including Lake)                                              118,500 sq.km
Area (Land only)                                                    94,300 sq.km
Population                                                         5.9 million
Education
School year                                                     October-August
Gross Enrollment Ratios:
Primary Education (6-13 age group)                              58.9%
Secondary Education (14-17 age group)                            4.0%
Higher Education                                                 0.3%
Central Government expenditures on Education 1979/80
as percentage of total Government expenditures
Capital                                                         4.1%
Recurrent                                                      11.3%
Total                                                          10.2%
Total Ministry of Education expenditures as a percentage of GDP    3.5%






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation
1.01      L4alawi is one of the least developed countries in Africa with a GNP
per capita in 1979 of about US$200 equivalent. The results of the 1977 census
indicate that within the last decade, population growth has averaged about 2.9%
per annum. Most of Malawi's estimated 5.9 million people (1979) live in rural
areas. With an average density of about 59 per sq. km. of total land and 136
per sq. km. of arable land, M4alawi is one of the most densely populated coun-
tries in Africa. However, the population is unevenly distributecl throughout the
country, varying from 88 persons per sq. km. in the more populous southern
regions to 23 per sq. km. in the North.
Development Objectives and Trends
1.02      The Government's socio-economic goals are clearly outlined in the
Statement of Development Policies 1971-1980. The main emphasis in the document
is on economic growth, and this is to be achieved largely through growth of the
private sector. During the last decade the Government has fostered the develop-
ment of this sector by creating an environment in which foreign investment is
welcomed. It has also encouraged local initiatives and participation through
the Government-owned Malawi Development Corporation. The Government's policy
since independence has been to invest its own resources in directly productive
rather than social sectors, and its investment expenditures have mostly been
directed to such income-generating activities as small-holder agriculture,
infrastructure and public utilities which cannot easily attract private invest-
ment.
1.03      Since independence in 1964, economic progress in Malawi has been
remarkable. Between 1964-75, GDP in constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6.5%, and per capita GDP at 3.8% per annum over the same period. Since
1978, the economy has stagnated because of unfavourable weather conditions, high
fuel costs, and a 70% drop in the price of cured tobacco. In agriculture the
rate of growth dropped from 14% per annum in 1975 to 3.7% in 1978 and 2.8% in
1979. Fuel shortages in late 1979 adversely affected the construction, tran-
sportation and distributive sectors. Despite economic uncertainties, real GDP
from 1980 to 1985 is still projected to grow at an average annual rate of about
5.3%.
1.04      Unlike many developing countries, the revenue account of the Malawian
Government was in surplus from 1972 to 1978, and the official policy continues
to be one of fiscal restraints aimed at producing a balanced budget. However,
the rise in recurrent expenditure due to new development projects, combined with



-2--
a reduced rate of growth of revenue, virtually eliminated surpluses in 1978/79
and 1979/80.
Manpower Situation and Needs
1.05      At the time of independence, given the small number of citizens with
post-primary education, the most urgent need was to train the essential manpower
required by the Government to assume control of and develop the economy. Prior-
ity was given to making up the deficiencies at higher education levels until the
minimum high level manpower requirements had been attained. The 1971 Manpower
Survey analysis projected these needs to 1980. "The Education Plar of Malawi
1973-80", subsequently prepared, set broad goals for the developmernt of the edu-
cation system during the period. The quantitative objectives of the plan were
not fully implemented, in part because of Government's fears of excessive secon-
dary school output which might lead to unemployment of secondary school leavers.
Following several years of very slow growth of the secondary education system
combined with a period of rapid economic growth (para. 1.03), the outputs from
the education system at both the secondary and higher level now fall far short
of the country's development needs (para. 1.09).  Recent studies in Malawi indi-
cate a very low unemployment rate among secondary school leavers and high social
rates of return to secondary education.(l)
1.06      To enable the Government to plan its objectives and strategy for human
resource development in the 1980's, a new Manpower Survey was undertaken in 1979
with the primary objectives of: (a) estimating future manpower requirements,
and (b) assessing the severity of present manpower shortages, Job vacancies and
dependence on non-Malawians, especially in the high and middle level positions.
1.07      Forecasts of manpower requirements for Malawi prepared by Bank staff
take into consideration the recent downturn in the economy (para. 1.03). Annex
1, T-1 illustrates the effect of different assumptions as to productivity
increases on estimated manpower requirements. Based on an expected 5.3% p.a.
GDP growth rate (para. 1.03) for the 1980's and on modest productivity increases
and low dropout from the labor force (reflecting the comparatively young age of
the group currently employed), the total number of higher and midd-Le level posi-
tions are expected to grow from about 120,000 in 1979 to about 158,000 in 1985
and about 203,000 by 1990, distributed by educational level as follows:
(1) Re: Staff Working Paper No. 420.



-3-
University       Upper         Lower
and Higher    Secondary    Secondary        Total
1979
No. of Positions         29,900          37,600       52,500       120,000
% of total                24.9            31.3         43.8           100
1985
No. of Positions          39,800         51,200        67,400      158,400
% of total                25.2            32.3         42.5          100
1990
No. of Positions         51,300         67,300        84,200       202,800
% of total                25.3            33.2         41.5          100
1.08      Preliminary analyses of the Manpower Survey indicate that the labor
market continues to rely heavily on non-Malawians at the high and middle level
positions.  For example, 43% of all administrative and manageriaL personnel, 39%
of all architectural and engineering staff, 57% of all accountants and auditors,
30% of all secretaries and 20% of all farm managers are non-Malawians. Although
the total number of non-Malawians in relation to total employment is small (5
per 1,000, Annex 1, T-2), their impact on the economy is great because they tend
to hold decision making positions. Non-Malawians are often employed because the
available local candidates may have received training which is neither relevant
to nor suitable for existing vacancies.
1.09      Based on Ministry of Education (MOE) estimates, both enrollment and
output of secondary and higher education is expected to increase by about 5%
p.a. over the next ten years.  This increased output would not bIe sufficient to
close the gap between supply and demand for high and middle level personnel and
for the foreseeable future Malawi is unlikely to be able to obtain self-
sufficiency of skilled manpower. The cumulative shortfall between output and
requirements for upper and lower secondary level personnel by 1990 would be
14,000 and 18,000 respectively, and the shortfall of personnel with higher edu-
cation would be about 10,900. Even if economic growth is lower than expected,
the lack of skilled manpower would still constitute a serious constraint to
development. The shortfall could be met partially by additional employment of
non-Malawians, but Government policy is gradually to reduce its dependence on
this source of expertise. Additional expansion of secondary and higher educa-
tion beyond the projected 5% p.a. increase will be difficult in view of the cap-
ital and recurrent cost implications. The most likely scenario is therefore
employment of school leavers in occupational levels higher than their general
education level and a continuation of the lack of appropriately educated man-
power as a key constraint on Malawi's economic development.



-4-
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Overall Policy
2.01      After independence in 1964, Government policy within the education
sector emphasized the provision of middle and high level manpower required for
the economy (para. 1.05) and, accordingly, emphasis was initially placed on
expansion of secondary education from the extremely low base of 3,100 students
in 1962 and on the establishment of the IJniversity of Malawi. The "Education
Plan of Malawi 1973-1980" (para. 1.05) established broader goals for the educa-
tion system. It gave priority to improved internal efficiency and more equit-
able distribution of educational opportunities as well as continued efforts to
meet manpower requirements. On the basis of these broader goals, the Government
gradually turned more attention towards improving access and efficiency in pri-
mary and secondary education, as well as to improving overall management of the
sector.
2.02      As a result of the Government policy of giving higher priority to
directly productive sectors rather than to social services, the development of
the educational system has lagged behind that of other sectors. In 1979, only
25% of the adult population were estimated to be literate. Enrollment in grades
1-8 was equivalent to 59% of the 6-13 age group (Annex 1, C-i). In addition,
only 17% of the children entering primary school completed primary education,
which was often given in inadequate facilities, with little or no furniture or
equipment (paras. 2.06 and 2.07). Only 4% of the relevant age group were in
full-time secondary education (including general, technical, and teacher train-
ing courses), a figure which is among the lowest in Africa. The output of agri-
cultural, industrial, and commercial technicians from specialized secondary and
higher institutions falls short of manpower demands (para. 1.09).
Structure, Administration and Planning
2.03      The formal education system (Annex 1, C-2) consists of eight years of
primary education, four years of secondary education (two years of junior secon-
dary and two years of senior secondary), and three to five years of higher edu-
cation (three years for a diploma and four to five years for a degree). The MOE
has administrative, financial, and academic control of primary, secondary,
technical teacher and in-school radio education. The MOE is also officially
responsible for the autonomous University of Malawi, which consists of Chancel-
lor College (arts and science as well as secondary teacher training), Bunda Col-
lege (agriculture), the Polytechnic (engineering and business), and Kamuzu Col-
lege of Nursing. The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for non-formal
farmer training. Various other training programs are undertaken by the Minis-
tries of Health, Works, Agriculture, and Community Development. The Malawi
Broadcasting Corporation (MBC), a parastatal corporation, broadcasts numerous
educational and cultural programs, and the Malawi Book Service (MBS), another
parastatal organization, is responsible for bulk purchase and distribution of
textbooks. The Malawi Certificate Examination and Testing Board (MCETB) is



-5-
responsible for all educational tests. Coordination between the MOE and the
above-mentioned autonomous agencies is satisfactory.
2.04      The MOE itself is divided into academic, administrative, accounting
and personnel departments (Annex 1, C-3). While the quality of higher level
officials is good, administration is weakened by the fact that almost one-third
of the senior professional officer posts are vacant. Planning has also been
limited and the Government has not prepared a comprehensive education develop-
ment plan since 1973. This has led to ad-hoc decision making and has made it
difficult for the MOE to obtain adequate financial support from the economic
planning and finance offices of the Government. The Inspectorate or field
supervisory staff, responsible for teacher and headmaster evaluation, school
maintenance, management of school fees, and introduction of new curricula and
textbooks, needs training, upgrading and additional staff. In order to study
and systematically improve the quality of education and administration, the
Government has officially established an Institute of Education to centralize
curriculum development, teaching materials preparation, and in-service training.
This Institute, which is scheduled to become operative in 1982, will have full-
time curriculum and training personnel.
Primary Education
2.05      The quality of primary education must be improved as a means of pro-
viding basic literacy to the population, raising farmer and worker productivity,
and serving as a base for further education and essential skill training. For-
tunately the Government is now actively assisting the improvement of primary
school quality. Needs are very great because of relatively low enrollment and
completion rates (para. 2.02). About half the students in grade 8 repeat the
year in the hope of obtaining higher grades in the Primary School Leaving Certi-
ficate (PSLC) examination thus qualifying for admission to secondary education.
Girls make up 41% of total enrollment but are much more likely than boys to drop
out before completing the full primary school program; as a result they make up
only 26% of enrollment in grade 8.
2.06      The physical facilities available to the primary education system are
grossly inadequate. Most primary schools have little or no furniture or equip-
ment and buildings are rudimentary, in many instances with roof structures in a
serious state of decay as a result of termite infestation. Although tradition-
ally all physical construction has been left to the communities, the Government
recently constructed 23 prototype primary schools, and now has programs for the
construction of 1,000 classrooms of a more durable type under self-help, con-
tract and force account methods (para. 3.03). The MOE is completing a nation-
wide school mapping survey to help determine specific school construction needs
and to rationalize school locations in accordance with population, geographic
features, and equity requirements.
2.07      Until 1979 local authorities had full responsibility for the provision
of education materials. They were expected to buy all expendable school



-6-
materials and equipment through utilization of school fees which they collected
and which range from K 2.00 to K 6.50 per student. However, these fees were
sufficient to cover only one half to one third the overall textbook requirements
and consequently very little in the way of other supplies such as furniture and
teaching aids has been provided. The MOE has recognized the particular impor-
tance of textbooks, and, with IDA assistance (Credit No. 910-HtAI), has initiated
a program to gradually take responsibility for financing a large portion of the
costs of textbooks, beginning with basic English, Chichewa and Arithmetic text-
books. From 1979, students' fees have been collected by the IMCE and will be
used to purchase additional textbooks, materials, furniture and equipment. In
line with Government policy to encourage the expansion of primary eiducation,
these fees have not been raised since 1972 and are not expected to be increased.
2.08      The rapid expansion of primary school enrollment over the past few
years has led to an increase in the average number of students per teacher to 62
to 1, compared to the official policy of 50 to 1, and only 56X of teachers are
fully qualified. Although a new teacher training college at Mzuzu is expected
to enroll 540 students in 1980-81, primary teacher output is still expected to
be inadcntinre to meet needs. Based on minimum improvements in the student
teacher ratio, overall output should increase from the present 700 per year to
over 1,300 per year by 1990. The Government plans to construct two new teacher
training colleges as funds become available, and is seeking additional funds
from bilateral and multilateral sources for a third new college. In the mean-
time, starting in 1982, the Institute of Education is expected to initiate
large-scale in-service training programs to upgrade unqualified teachers.
Secondary Education
2.09      After independence, enrollment in secondary education increased
rapidly from 3,100 in 1962 to 13,400 in 1972. However, after 1972, enrollment
grew at an average rate of only 3% per annum to reach 15,500 in 1978, and 16,500
in 1979. This low enrollment growth has affected the entire education system.
At the primary level, almost half the enrollment in the eighth grade consists of
children repeating the year in order to get a higher score on the PSLC examina-
tion and hopefully secure a place in secondary schools. Because of a shortage
of secondary school graduates, the primary teacher training colleges are having
difficulty recruiting students for their courses. The M4alawi Correspondence
College (MCC), which offers an alternative to secondary education, has expanded
rapidly since its establishment in 1965.  In 1979 the IICC enrolled 4,800 stu-
dents and is presently facing difficulties preparing and evaluating its radio
and correspondence programs. The shortage of secondary school graduates has
also resulted in major shortages of middle and high level manpower (para. 1.09).
2.10       Access to secondary education is based solely on results in the PSLC
examination. Children with the highest grades are selected on a national basis
to attend one of the 22 national boarding schools enrolling in 1978/79 a total
of 5,600 students. After these schools are filled, students are selected on a
district basis and enter one of 28 "district day" schools enrolling 7,900



-7-
students.  Most of these district schools provide at least some boarding facili-
ties. In addition, students may attend one of 14 private schools enrolling
2,000 students. Overall, secondary school places are available to only 14% of
the children who pass the PSLC. Girls make up only 31% of secondary school
enrollment, a result of their high dropout rates in primary education. As a
matter of policy, girls passing the PSLC examination are admitted to secondary
schools with lower scores than boys. About 50% of all secondary school students
have parents with less than a full primary education; thus the secondary school
system appears to be an effective and positive influence on upward social mobil-
ity.
2.11      Internal efficiency of secondary education is relatively high but
could be improved. Of the total number of students entering the system, 69%
pass the Junior Certificate (JC) examination which is given at the end of the
second year, and 56% of the students who continue to upper secondary education
pass the Malawi Certificate of Education (MCE) examination which is given at the
end of the fourth year. These rates have remained relatively stable over the
past ten years. Girls generally have a slightly lower pass rate than boys on
these examinations, and "district day" school students have a lower pass rate
than national boarding school students.
2.12      The secondary school curriculum emphasizes language, arts, science,
and mathematics. The new Institute of Education (para. 2.08) can be expected to
help strengthen teaching methodology through the introduction of more active
teaching/learning activities. Recently the MOE introduced technical subjects
(home economics, needlework and dressmaking, metalwork, and woodwork) into a
number of schools. In home economics, the supply of teachers, student interest
and examination results have been satisfactory. The results with regard to
metalwork and woodwork have not been as positive because of high operational
costs, lack of student interest, and teacher shortages, and the MOE has there-
fore decided for the time being not to expand teaching of these subjects.
Malawi's mixed experience with a diversified curriculum is similar to that of a
number of other countries. A Bank research project is systematically evaluating
the results of this type of curriculum in several countries.
2.13      Most boarding secondary schools have adequate physicaL facilities,
including laboratories, libraries, and workshops.  However, many of the "dis-
trict" schools have inadequate teaching facilities, and provide makeshift, often
overcrowded and unhealthy, dormitories. The MOE policy is to provide full dor-
mitory space for all "district" schools, with the exception of those located in
the three major urban centers, where dormitory space would be limited to 50% of
enrollment. The MOE is also planning to double enrollment in most 240-place
schools to 480; this policy will permit more efficient utilization of space and
teachers.
2.14      The MOE has now recognized the need for more rapid expansion of secon-
dary education to meet manpower needs (para. 1.09). However,-because of teacher
shortages (para. 2.15) and limited availability of capital, the MOE expects



-8-
enrollment to increase by only about 5% per year, from 16,500 in 1S979 to about
28,000 in 1990. After the natural rate of population growth is taken into con-
sideration, this increase would only raise the percentage of children enrolled
in general secondary schools from 3.5% tD 4.5%, a significant increase but still
among the lowest enrollment ratios in the world (Annex 1, T-3). Further
increases could be met only through massive capital investments which for the
time being are not available either internally or externally.
Secondary Teacher Training
2.15      Over 90% of the present 800 secondary school teachers are qualified,
holding either degrees or diplomas. Expatriates make up about 200 of the 720
qualified teachers. Until 1973, Soche Hill College, located in Blantyre, was
responsible for secondary teacher training. At that time Chancellor College,
the arts and science college of the University of Malawi, became responsible for
secondary teacher training. The output of teachers declined from 40 in 1973 to
10 in 1979, because of neglect of the teacher training function by Chancellor
College authorities and also because of interest by students in higher paying
jobs in the civil service and private industry. As a resuLc, shortages of
teachers, particularly in the sciences, are now putting serious restraints on
enrollment growth.
2.16         In 1978, at the initiative of the MOE, Chancellor College introduced
a crash two-year diploma program to enable 40 qualified primary school teachers
to be trained to teach at the secondary level. In October 1980, the College
initiated a degree-level science teachers program for older students who have
temporarily stopped their schooling. The College is now planning to provide
incentives for regular degree students to take an additional year of pedagogical
studies to qualify them to teach in secondary schools, and is also expanding its
regular secondary teacher training program. The total number of 155 new stu-
dents entering teaching programs in October 1980 will be made up as follows:
upgrading primary teachers to secondary level (two-year course) 40 students;
science teachers program (five-year course) 20 students; upgrading diploma level
secondary teachers to bachelor level (two years) 30 students; diploma level
course for non-teachers (three years) 40 students; "normal" entry to education
programs (three or five years) 25 students. To meet these needs the College has
recruited additional lecturers and professors to train secondary school teach-
ers. The College is considering revision of the curriculum so as to provide
earlier introductions to pedagogical studies, which are now concentrated in the
fourth and fifth years of study. It has also been discussing the possibility of
reducing the lengthy five-year degree course to four years.
2.17      Based on a 5% per annum growth of enrollment in secondary education, a
21:1 student teacher ratio and a gradual reduction of expatriate teachers, the
secondary education system will need 100 new teachers per year by 1984 and 130
per year by 1989 or a total of 1,060 from 1981 to 1990 (Annex 1, T-4). About
half of these teachers would complete the three-year diploma course and half
would complete the five-year degree course. In accordance with the MOE policy,



-9-
an additional 25 teachers annually already in possession of diplomas would be
upgraded to degree level.
Training of Middle and High Level Manpower
2.18      Five technical schools train skilled workers in areas such as brick-
laying, carpentry, eiectricity and mechanics.  These programs, enrolling about
900 persons per year, are well staffed and produce an adequate number of work-
ers with skills appropriate to industry's needs. The courses last up to three
years and blend periods of craft training and related on-the-job experience.
Trade test certificates are given to the trainees as they achieve the appropri-
ate levels of competence during their period of training.
2.19      The principal commercial education institutions training typists,
secretaries and bookkeepers are presently various correspondence schools and
poorly equipped private schools which charge high fees. Some general secondary
schools provide training in commercial skills but this is normall!y inadequate
for all but the lowest level positions. To improve commercial education, the
MOE will introduce training for bookkeepers and secretaries into three existing
technical schools. A shortage of accountants and business administrators is
being met through an expansion of the Malawi Polytechnic as well as through
expanded in-service upgrading of junior accountants.
2.20      The output from Colby College of Agriculture (secondary level) of 160
agricultural technicians p.a. is insufficient to meet future needs, especially
in relation to the National Rural Development Program being assisted by numerous
bilateral and international agencies, including the Bank Group. To meet these
needs a multi-purpose Natural Resources College with an expected output of 380
agricultural technicians p.a. will be constructed adjacent to Colby College,
with assistance from the Canadian International Development Agency. Since this
College is not expected to provide these technician outputs until 1984-85 at the
earliest, the Government has maximised the output of students at Colby College
through minor improvements to existing facilities and increased staffing levels.
Enrollment in Bunda College, which trains higher level agricultural technicians
and scientists, has increased rapidly and at 870 students in 1978/79 is ade-
quate to meet this type of manpower needs.
2.21      Enrollment in the Polytechnic, which trains engineers, technicians,
and business managers, has been gradually increasing to 350 in 1978 and, with a
planned development to reach 700 by 1985, should be sufficient to meet manpower
needs. Enrollment at Chancellor College in arts and sciences, secondary teacher
training, public administration, and law has remained relatively stagnant since
1969-70 and now stands at about 700. In addition to requirement:s for additional
secondary school teachers (para. 2.17), Chancellor College needs to expand its
output in the sciences and in public administration. In part because of the
recent crash programs for secondary school teachers, (the College's) science
laboratories are overused, science equipment is being stored in hallways and
there is a shortage of large lecture halls and of seating capacity in the



-10-
library. Expansion of Chancellor College to about 1,200 as planned would
increase the student/faculty ratio from the present low 9 to 1 to about 12 to 1
through larger enrollments and more effective use of large lecture classes.
2.22      In 1978, the Mpemba Staff Training College, responsible for training
of lower level civil servants, trained 500 civil servants, principally in cleri-
cal, secretarial and bookkeeping courses. At higher levels, Chancellor College
has a degree course in public administration but graduate output in 1979 was
only 14. The Government has proposed to establish a new Institute of Public
Administration (IPA) in Lilongwe , to be responsible for in-service training of
middle and higher level civil servants. A survey of civil servants shows that
the greatest needs are in accounting, personnel, and management/decision making.
Courses to be held at the IPA would include (a) induction courses for recent
entrants to the civil service, (b) review courses for those who have been in the
civil service for two years, and (c) numerous ad-hoc courses for the ministries
based on needs. A new facility to be eventually constructed in Lilongwe should
have teaching and boarding facilities to accommodate up to 100 civil servants at
a time. UNDP is providing technical assistance for the initial establishment of
the IPA, the cost of which is presently estimated at about US$4.0 million
equivalent plus contingencies.
Non-formal Education
2.23      Numerous agencies and organizations provide non-formal education and
training. In particular, the agriculture extension service of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is among the best organized in Africa, with one extension
worker to every 1,500 families in project areas and with 59 farmer training
centers. The Extension Aids Branch of the MOA prepares radio programs,
leaflets, single topic films, and puppet shows and its mobile units reach an
estimated one million people per year. Other major agencies and programs
include the Ministry of Community Development, with programs in literacy,
child-care, and community development and the Ministry of Youth and Culture with
the Young Pioneers program for out-of-school youth. The agricultural programs
have been evaluated and found to be effective, but little evaluation has been
done of other programs and overall coordination is weak. The MOE has esta-
blished "rural education centers", within 23 model primary schools with finan-
cial assistance under the Second IDA Education Project (Credit 590-MAI), but
historically the MOE has not worked in non-formal education and other agencies
have only recently become active in the development of programs in this field.
Financing and Cost of Education
2.24      Total public education expenditures in Malawi in 1979/80 represented
about 3.5% of GDP. This percentage, which is among the lowest in Africa,
reflects the Government's philosophy of placing relatively greater emphasis on
directly productive sectors rather than social sectors. In 1979/80 education
received only 4.1% of the total capital budget. Foreign assistance continues to
be the major source of capital investment in education and throughcut the 1970's



-11-
has accounted for about 80% of all capital investment in the sector. Recurrent
expenditure on education as a percentage of total Government expenditure shows a
decline from about 17% in 1970/71 to 11.3% in 1979/80 reflecting the relatively
greater priority given to other sectors over this period. In 1979/80, 40% of
recurrent expenditure on education was devoted to primary educat:ion, 15% to
secondary education, 23% to the University of Malawi, 14% on administration and
the balance to other types of education. The main changes in the distribution
of recurrent expenditure by level and type of education in the period 1970-79
were a decrease in the share of secondary education from 18% to 16% and an
increase in the share of other types of education. This lack of emphasis has
resulted in shortages of critical manpower needed for developmenit (para. 2.02).
2.25      Recurrent costs to the Government in 1978/79 were about MK 12 per stu-
dent at the primary level, MK 210 at the secondary level, MK 573 for teacher
training, MK 77 at the Malawi Correspondence College and MK 2,988 at the Univer-
sity level. The low public recurrent cost per student at the primary school
level reflects high student/teacher ratios and the use of student fees to
finance a significant portion of primary school costs. Secondary school unit
costs compare favorably with that of other similar East African countries. Pri-
mary teacher training unit costs tend to be higher than secondary school costs
because of lower student teacher ratios.
2.26      Bank staff estimates of increased enrollment for all educational lev-
els and their recurrent cost implications are summarized below and presented in
more detail in Annex 1, T-5.
r



-12-
PUBLIC ENROLLMENTS AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
1979/80                     1990/91
(estimated)                 (projected)
Enrollments                    Enrollments
As a iO   Total              As a NO   Total
of Rele-  expend-            of Rele-  expen-
vant Age  iture        No.   vant Age  diture 2/
No.     Group      (K'000)   Total  Group        (K'000)
Administration                               2,828.0                       3,363.6
Primary Education       656,703   58.9 1/  8,220.2  986,845  66.7 1/  18,249.8
Secondary General
Education             14,377    3.5 1/  2,995.7   24,578   4.5 1/   6,092.0
Primary Teacher
Training               1,641    0.2        974.6    2,801   0.2         1,977.9
Technical & Vocatio-
nal Education            831    0.3        310.0    1,421   0.4           630.7
Malawi Correspondence
College               4,796    1.0         336.6   10,094   1.6           842.5
University of Malawi    1,455    0.3         4,739.3    3,062   0.5       11,862.9
TOTAL                              20,404.4                      43,019.4
As a % of total
recurrent budget                            11.3                           16.3
As a % of GDP                                   2.7                           3.1
1/ Including private school enrollment
2/ 1979-80 prices



-13-
2.27      These projections (Annex 1, T-6) of enrollments and Government expen-
ditures on education are based on the following assumptions: (a) primary school
enrollments will grow at 4.3% p.a., (b) enrollments in secondary, technical, and
primary teacher training schools will grow at 5% p.a., (c) enrollment at the
University of Malawi will grow at 6% p.a., and (d) the Malawi Correspondence
College will grow at 7% p.a. The projected growth of public secondary school
enrollments is expected to be higher than the average 3% p.a. rate of growth
since 1973 and reflects anticipated increases due to the proposed project. The
projections are also based upon an average 2% p.a increase of unit costs in real
terms for all educational levels and administrative costs except for primary
education where a 4% p.a. increase is assumed, reflecting an anticipated reduc-
tion in the present high student teacher ratio from 62:1 to 50:1. These projec-
tions also assume that the GDP would grow at a rate of 5.3% p.a. up to 1985/86
and thereafter at 6% p.a. and that the Government's total recurrent expenditure
would remain at 19% of GDP - the same level it was in 1978/79. The rate of
growth of GDP assumed in this analysis reflects the slowdown in the economy
since 1979.
2.28      On the basis of the above assumptions, the education sec:tor's share of
the recurrent budget would rise from 11.3% (1979/80) to 15.3% by 1985/86 and to
16.3% by 1990/91. This level of expenditure is a minimum needed to keep the
education system from impeding development. It would not greatly tax Malawi's
resources, and would still be lower than the prevailing level in rmost African
countries. However, it would require a significant shift of emphasis by the
Government towards the social sectors. Future education costs could be lowered
if the Government adopts cost saving devices. For example, an increase in the
student teacher ratio at secondary level from its current 20:1 to 25:1, and at
University level from 9:1 to 12:1 would reduce 1985/86 recurrent expenditure
from the projected 15.3% to about 14.4% the total Government budget.
III - BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN THE SECTOR
Past Experience and Lessons Learned
3.01      The Bank Group has financed three education projects in Malawi.  The
First Education Project (Credit 102-MAI of US$6.3 million equivalent, signed in
1967) focused on the introduction of technical subjects in secondary education,
on a limited expansion of secondary schools (about 1,800 additional places) and
on the construction of a new 540-place primary teacher training college. The
project as originally conceived was virtually completed in about five years as
scheduled. A cost underrun permitted the addition to the project of a Post and
Telecommunications Training Center to serve not only Malawi but also Botswana,
Lesotho and Swaziland. A Project Performance Audit Report, No. 2914 dated March
25, 1980, indicated that the project was on the whole successfully implemented
and that it accomplished its overall objectives with regard to expansion of
enrollment in primary teacher training and secondary education. However, the



-14-
teaching of technical subjects was not as successful as had been expected
because of a lack of interest by students and a shortage of teachers, as well as
provision of overly sophisticated equipment. For the time being, the Government
does not plan to further expand the teaching of technical subjects in secondary
schools. The teacher training college was initially unable to recruit suffi-
cient numbers of MCE holders reflecting the general shortage of such secondary
school graduates.
3.02      The Second Education Project (Credit 590-HAI of US$1i.6 million
equivalent, signed in 1975) continues the emphasis of the First Education Pro-
ject on secondary and primary teacher education, including the construction of a
new 420-place teacher training college in Mzuzu, and provision of 1,800 addi-
tional secondary school places, principally for girls. The project also sup-
ports the construction of 23 model primary schools designed to serve as proto-
types for community self-help construction as well as to function as centers for
adult non-formal education. After some initial delays, the project is being
satisfactorily implemented and is expected to be completed and fully disbursed
by the revised Credit Closing Date of December 31, 1981, a delay of about nine
months from the original date. A full assessment of the Second Education Pro-
ject has not yet been made, but preliminary reviews carried out in the course of
routine supervision indicate that most of the quantitative and qualitative goals
at the primary, secondary, and primary teacher training levels are being met.
However, the primary schools, built using conventional contracting procedures,
are unlikely to be replicated by the local communities without additional
Government financial and technical assistance. The schools have yet to be fully
utilized as adult education centers as originally conceived as a result of lack
of interest by Ministries other than Education. Belatedly programs are now
being developed with the participation of Ministry of Community Development and
UNICEF.
3.03      The main focus of the Third Education Project (IDA Credit 910-MAI and
EEC Credit 12-MAI totalling US$22.0 million, signed in 1979) is on primary edu-
cation, including support of a program to construct 1,000 primary school class-
rooms, using self-help, conitract and force account methods, and a program to
supply about 2.2 million textbooks to primary school children.  The project also
supports improved management and organization of education and curriculum
development through the establishment of the Malawi Institute of Education,
through the provision of vehicles for district education officers, and through
support for studies and evaluation of the education system that will be used in
the preparation of a national education plan. The project provides minor sup-
port to secondary commercial and agricultural education, and finances a signifi-
cant expansion of the Malawi Correspondence College, a lower cost alternative to
secondary education. Chancellor College of the University of Malawi is also
being expanded to produce additional secondary school teachers, a preliminary
requirement before expansion of secondary enrollments. Despite the project's
relative complexity, the highly competent Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is
satisfactorily implementing the project as scheduled.



-15-
3.04      The Bank Group's knowledge of Malawi's education sector has increased
considerably in the last seven years, not only through project work but also
through a program of economic and sector analyses. In 1978 Bank staff completed
an in-depth "Education Sector Survey" (Report No. 1781-MAI). During 1980 Bank
staff actively assisted the Government in analyzing the results of manpower and
tracer studies. Furthermore, Bank staff are in continuous dialogue with the
Government officials on education policy issues.
Lending Strategy
3.05      The Bank Group's present strategy in Malawi is to support a major
expansion of secondary education to alleviate clearly identified manpower shor-
tages and to expand and improve quality of primary education. The Government
has recognised the critical role of the education system in the context of
national development and is committed to expansion of the secondary school sys-
tem; as a result, the highest education priority at this time is at this level.
A National Education Plan, which the Government intends to prepare, will serve
as a basis for continued Bank Group response to the education and training needs
of Malawi. Priority areas likely to require Bank Group support would be a
further expansion of secondary education and additional primary and secondary
teacher training. Future assistance may also include higher level management
train lg. Because of the erosion of the education sector's share of the
national budget over the past decade and in view of demonstrated long-term man-
.ower needs, the Bank Group would regularly review and discuss with the Govern-
ment the adequacy of its education budget to meet its long-term educational
objectives.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
4.01      The proposed project would provide much needed middle level manpower
through the expansion and improvement of secondary education and through the
training of secondary school teachers. The project would also assist the
Government to improve the quality of primary education and strengthen the civil
service through pre-investment studies which would lead to the establishment of
a new teacher training college and an Institute of Public Administration for the
training of higher level Government staff. Financing of expenditures incurred
in the preparation of a National Education Plan is also included. Specifically
the project would include the following:



-16-
Principal
Objective                       Items                 Beneficiaries
Provision of key middle         Construction, furnishing,   3,960 new students
level manpower                  and equipping of 3,960        and 1,440 students
additional secondary          in existing
school student places,       facilities.
including expansion of
six existing schools
to enrollment of 480
and construction of five
new 480-place schools.
Construction, furnishing    168 new students
and equipping of 168          and about 800
additional places at          students in
Chancellor College            existing facilities
principally for               or in those shortly
secondary teacher             to be constructed.
training students.
Improved quality                Pre-investment studies,       About 420 new
of primary level                including preparation of    students and about
education                       architectural drawings,       10,500 primary
for a new teacher            school children to
training college.            be taught each year
by graduates of
the college.
Strengthening of the            Pre-investment studies,       100 civil servants
civil service                   including preparation         at one time; about
of architectural draw-       600 per year.
ings, for a new Institute
of Public Administration
in Lilongwe.
Improvement of the              Preparation of a national   The entire education
education system                education plan.               system.
Secondary Education
4.02      The provision of a total of 3,960 new secondary school places would
increase total enrollment in secondary education by about 24% and enrollment in
"district" schools by 50%. It would meet more than one third of MOE's planned
enrollment increases to 1990. The additional number of secondary school gradu-
ates from these schools (about 980 p.a.) would meet a large proportion of the



-17-
requirements for additional middle-level manpower through 1990 (paras. 1.07-
1.09), although shortages at this level would continue to be significant.
4.03      Specifically the project would provide for the construction, furnish-
ing and equipping of 3,960 district secondary school student places, 3,842 dor-
mitory places and 195 teacher houses. Five new 480-student schoo:Ls would be
constructed and six existing schools would be expanded to 480 enrollment. The
new and expanded schools were selected by the MOE on the basis of existing pri-
mary school enrollment and demands for secondary schooling and form part of the
MOE's long term plans to double secondary school enrollment. The schools are
scattered throughout the country (see map) with a preponderance in the more
heavily populated southern region. Improvement of the six existing schools and
construction of five new schools would bring to 34 the number of schools
assisted by Bank Group education projects out of a total of 69 public and
private secondary schools.
4.04      In accordance with the MOE's policy, one third of the places in the
project schools would be reserved for girls. Since five of the six existing
schools to be expanded presently enroll few girls, more than half of the new
places in the expanded schools would be for girls and the total number of girls'
places provided under the project would be 1,849 (47%).
4.05       Each of the five new 480-place schools would receive the minimum
facilities necessary to implement the secondary school program, and these would
include two science laboratories, a library, home economics facilities, and a
dining hall to accommodate 240 per sitting which would also be used as an assem-
bly hall for the school. Because of the long distances children need to travel,
boarding places would be provided for all children except in the three new urban
schools in Lilongwe, Blantyre, and Zomba, where dormitory places would be pro-
vided for only 50% of the students. In accordance with the MOE policy and in
order to attract qualified teachers, housing would be provided for 75% of all
teaching staff. Each of the six existing schools would receive the facilities
needed to expand from 120/240 to 480 enrollment.
Secondary Teacher Training
4.06      In order to ensure an adequate supply of teachers, the proposed pro-
ject would support the construction, furnishing, and equipping of teaching,
boarding and faculty housing facilities for an additional 168 students at Chan-
cellor College of the University of Malawi. The proposed project would support
the construction, furnishing, and equipping of one physical science laboratory,
two biology laboratories, two chemistry laboratories, two physics laboratories,
one science workshop, one geography lab and equipment to link Chancellor College
to computer facilities presently operated by the Malawi Certificate Examination
and Testing Board (MCETB) which is also located in Zomba, as well as a student
common room and kitchen facilities, 168 dormitory places, 12 senior staff
houses, and 11 technical staff houses. With the support from the Third and pro-
posed Fourth IDA-assisted Projects, Chancellor College would be able to expand



-18-
its enrollment to 1,000, compared to its 1978 enrollment of about 600, and would
have adequate science and library facilities for further expansion to 1,200
enrollment. Local funds are expected to provide for expansion of arts and
humanities to enable the College to reach its goal of 1,200 enrollment by 1985-
86.
4.07      The additional places provided under the Third and proposed Fourth
Education Projects would result in enrollment of 500 students in secondary
teacher training programs. At full capacity, the College would achieve an
annual output of about 130 teachers per annum by graduating each year 55 teach-
ers in the three-year diploma programs, 55 teachers in five-year degree courses,
and 20 teachers in two-year upgrading courses for diploma-level secondary school
teachers. As previously noted (para. 2.16), the College has initiated a
diploma-level program to upgrade primary level teachers to teach at the secon-
dary level and a new five-year degree program to train science teachers. The
College is also reviewing the length of the degree program, the content of the
program as a whole, including the relative mix of general and education classes,
and the types of incentives needed to attract future graduate teachers to enter
the profession. Starting October 1981, and annually thereafter for a period of
four consecutive years, the College would prepare for review by the Bank Group a
report on its experience in implementing secondary teacher training programs,
including recruitment of students and placement of graduates and its plans for
the subsequent years, including estimates of expected enrollments and outputs
and proposed program or curriculum changes. As required under the Third Educa-
tion Project, the College would also undertake a tracer study of Chancellor Col-
lege graduates who enter the teaching profession.
Pre-Investment Studies
4.08      Because of the relatively higher priority presently placed on secon-
dary education by the Government, financing is not included in this project for
the construction of an Institute of Public Administration in Lilongwe and a new
primary teacher training college in Zomba. Both of these components are, how-
ever, justified for eventual financing either through a future Bank Group educa-
tion project or alternatively through bilateral or multi-lateral assistance
should this become available. Bank staff have assisted the Government through
the preparation of relevant documents justifying and describing the proposed new
facilities. In order to further assist the Government to advance the eventual
construction dates for these two facilities, the proposed project would finance
the costs of all architectural design work for the two institutions up to the
construction tender stage. All aspects of this proposed work would be monitored
by the Bank Group to ensure that the components would qualify for possible
future Bank Group financing.
4.09      The project also includes provision of US$100,000 equivalent for up to
12 man-months of consultants services, fellowships, travel and other expenses to
support the preparation of a National Education Plan. The Plan would have two
major parts: (a) those aspects of education under the direct control of the MOE



-19-
which would be undertaken by a studies co-ordinator already provided to the MOE
under UNDP assistance, and (b) those aspects of education that are under the
aegis of other Government departments. The Economic Planning Department (EPD)
of the Office of the President and Cabinet would co-ordinate preparation of the
overall plan and in this respect the Government plans to seek an additional two
man-years of specialist services from UNDP to support EPD's activities. This
long-term plan would review and summarize the progress made in education in
Malawi, and would project growth and change in the education system up to 1990.
The plan would pay particular attention to meeting needs for trained manpower,
to financial implications of growth of the education system, to teacher needs
and to improvement of the organization of the education system. It would be
based on numerous studies of the education system which were recently completed
or are to be undertaken. The National Education Plan would be completed by
December 31, 1982, and about one year from the signing of the Credlit and annu-
ally for four years thereafter, the Government, jointly with the Bank Group,
would review the education budget in terms of its adequacy to carry out the
Government's long-term educational objectives.
Reporting and Evaluation
4.10      Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by the P-IU and submit-
ted for review by the Bank Group within one month following the end of the
reporting period. Not later than three months after the Credit CLosing Date,
the MOE would provide the Bank Group with a report which evaluates the execution
and initial operations of the proposed Fourth Education Project, its costs,
benefits, the performance of the Government and the Bank Group, and significant
lessons learned during project implementation.
Female Participation in the Education System
4.11      Although girls make up over 40% of enrollment at the primary level,
they are much more likely to drop out than boys and consequently mnake up only
26% of the enrollment in grade 8 (para. 2.05). In accordance with the MOE pol-
icy at least one third of the places in all project schools would be reserved
for girls.  Since the six existing schools being expanded under the proposed
project have little female enrollment, more than half of the new places in
expanded schools would be for girls. Girls' places to be provided under the
proposed project would be 47% of the total. As a result of the proposed pro-
ject, female participation in secondary education would rise from 31% to 35%.
Summary of Technical Assistance
4.12      The proposed project includes about 36 man-years of technical assis-
tance consisting of: (a) one man-year of specialist services to support the
preparation of a National Education Plan (para. 4.09); (b) 24 man-years of pro-
fessional services of architectural consultants (para. 6.02); and (c) 11 man-
years of professional services for the supervision of construction (para. 6.02).



-20-
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$53.8 million
equivalent including duties and taxes estimated at US$2.5 million
equivalent.  The estimated costs and foreign exchange components
are given in Annex 1, T-7, and summarized below:
Estimated Cost by Project Item
Malawi Kwacha                                % of
(Millions)           US$ (Million         Base
Local  Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Cost
1. Civil Works,
Furniture, and
Equipment for
(a) Secondary
Schools           13.59   10.32   23.91   17.09  12.98  30.07   74.2
(b) Secondary
Teacher
Training           2.59    2.67    5.26    3.26   3.36   6.62   16.3
2. Professional
Services               1.05    0.70    1.75    1.32   0.89   2.21    5.4
3. Project Administra-
tion                   0.37    0.13    0.50    0.47   0.16   0.63    1.6
4. Pre-investment/
Studies                0.48    0.32    0.80    0.60   0.40   1.00    2.5
Total Base Cost
(February 1981)       18.08   14.14   32.22   22.74  17.79  40.53  100.0
5. Contingencies
(a) Physical (9%)       1.74    1.26    3.00    2.19   1.58   3.77
(b) Price Increases
(21%)            4.88    2.64    7.52    6.14   3.32   9.46
Subtotal           6.62    3.90   10.52    8.33   4.90  13.23
Total Project Cost   24.70   18.04   42.74   31.07  22.69  53.76
Of which taxes          1.99      -       1.99    2.50    -       2.50



-21-
5.02      Civil works, furniture and equipment costs are based upon tenders
received during 1978-80 for the Second and Third IDA Education Projects and for
similar development projects in Malawi. The February 1981 base construction
costs are estimated as follows: US$390 per square meter for secondary schools
and $570 per square meter for University construction. These costs compare
favorably with costs for similar facilities in other countries in the region as
follows: Kenya US$325-400 (1980), Tanzania US$325 (secondary schools 1979-80),
Zambia $335-400 (1977). The costs estimated for Malawi reflect the impact of
substantial increases in the prices of fuel, imported construction materials and
local taxes over the past two years, as well as difficulties experienced with
materials supplies imported through the M4ozambique ports of Beira and Nacala,
upon which Malawi is highly dependent. The base cost per student place for
academic and communal facilities is estimated at US$2,800 in secondary schools
and US$7,450 per university place which are reasonable. About 25% of total con-
struction costs for secondary schools are for staff housing. This provision is
essential to attract qualified teachers particularly to rural locations and is
in accordance with Government policy. Schedules of accommodation are functional
and appropriate for the educational objectives of the project. The cost of the
architectural and engineering consultants and construction supervisors (para.
6.02) is estimated at an average of US$60,000 per man-year. The cost of one
man-year of technical assistance and other services to help prepare a National
Education Plan is estimated at about US$100,000.
5.03        Customs Duties and Taxes.  In line with Malawian policies and prac-
tices, items imported specifically for the project would be exempted from cus-
toms duties and taxes. Certain items are expected to be purchased locally off
the shelf and reimbursement percentages have been calculated to exclude duties
and taxes estimated at US$2.5 million equivalent on imported materials and fuel
used in construction, and for local purchases of furniture and equipment.
5.04        For physical increases, 10% has been added to the base costs for
civil works and for professional services; 5% has been added to base costs for
furniture and equipment. Estimated price increases are based upon the applica-
tion of the following annual percentage rates of price escalation from the base
cost date (February 1981) in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex
1, C-4).
1981     1982      1983-84
Foreign              9.0%      8.5%       7.5%
Local                16.0%    12.0%      10.0%
The estimated price increases for construction are based on recent trends and
forecasts by the Ministry of Works (MOW), PIU and quantity surveyors based in
Malawi. These rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and found appropri-
ate.
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of US$22.7
million equivalent has been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, profe'-ional
services and pre-investment studies 40%; (b) furniture 55%; (c) equipment 90%;
and (d) project administration 25%.



-22-
Financial Plan
5.06      An IDA Credit of SDR 32.2 million (US$41.0 million equivalent) would
represent 80% of the total cost of the project net of taxes. The Credit would
finance the foreign exchange costs and 64% of local costs net of taxes. The
overall financing plan would be as follows:
US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT
GOVERNMENT      IDA     TOTAL
1)  Civil Works                        7.92        23.75      31.67
2)  Furniture                          0.24         2.19       2.43
3)  Equipment                          0.26         2.33       2.59
4)  Professional Services              0.44         1.77       2.21
5)  Project Administration             0.13         0.50       0.63
6) Pre-investment
Studies                          0.20         0.80       1.00
7)  Unallocated                        3.57         9.66      13.23
TOTAL                             12.76        41.00      53.76
of which taxes                     2.50                    2.50
5.07      In any year during project implementation, the maximum Government cap-
ital contribution including taxes would be about US$3.7 million equivalent.
This is 2.3% of the 1980/81 capital development budget or 47% of the education
capital budget which indicates the dependence of the Government on external
assistance for education. Recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at about US$1.8 million equivalent per annum or about 4% of the
estimated total recurrent expenditures of the MOE in 1985/86 when the project is
expected to be fully operational. The Government has indicated that it has the
capacity to finance this increase, and future Bank Group supervision missions
would continue to monitor the financing of these costs.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Implementation
6.01       The project would be implemented over a period of about 4-1/2 years.
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985 with a Closing Date of
December 31, 1985 including six months for the completion of payments and with-
drawals. This is in line with experience in implementing two previous education
projects in Malawi (paras. 3.01-3.03). Construction of the main element of the
program, the secondary schools, is expected to start during 1981 and to be
phased over a period of about 3-1/2 yeas. This relatively short implementation
period is possible as a result of the use of standardised accommodation units



-23-
designed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU is an integral part
of the planning unit of the MOE and is responsible for the overall implementa-
tion of the MOE's primary and secondary school programs and for the monitoring
of the Bank Group-assisted components at Chancellor College. The PIU is func-
tioning well and has a Malawian Program Manager and deputy. Technical support
for the architectural staffing of the Unit is provided by Danish International
Development Agency and assistance from the UK. The PIU, established within the
MOE for the implementation of two previous IDA-assisted Education Projects,
would perform all administrative functions for the proposed Fourth Project.
6.02       Professional Services.  Architectural/engineering consaltants
appointed to undertake the design and supervision of the construction of the
proposed expansion at Chancellor College under the ongoing Third IDA Education
Project would be commissioned to undertake the design and supervision of works
at the College under the proposed project. Standardised sketch designs already
prepared by the PIU as part of a general standardisation of educational designs
for secondary school facilities will be used for all schools. These designs and
accommodation standards are economical and acceptable to the Bank Group. Archi-
tectural consultants (equivalent to 24 man-years of services) will be appointed
to prepare site layouts including services, cost estimates and to undertake
post-contract supervision. Included also would be about 11 man-years of spe-
cialists services for additional construction supervision. All consultants
financed under the proposed project would be selected and appointed on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank Group.
6.03      Site Selection.  Sites for 10 of the proposed 11 secondary schools
have been selected and are appropriate. Final selection of the remaining site
in the Blantyre urban area is, however, not expected to pose any problems as
sites are available. Land would be provided free to the project by the communi-
ties included in the program. Sufficient land is already available at Chancel-
lor College.
6.04       Chancellor College Construction.  The Third IDA Education Project
also included a program for the expansion of the College. Construction works on
the housing and dormitory program are well advanced as a result of priority
given to this phase of the development by the University authorities. Design
works on the main academic facilities are, however, at an early stage and will
be undertaken concurrently with planning of the academic facilities under the
proposed Fourth Project. This will permit the planning of these facilities to
be undertaken as a single integrated process that would allow a planned develop-
ment of Chancellor College for up to 1,200 students or almost double the present
academic accommodation. For greater construction efficiency and to simplify a
potentially complicated construction program, it is proposed to interchange cer-
tain facilities between the Third and proposed Fourth IDA Education Projects so
that the delineation of specific project contractual and financing requirements
can be simplified. On this basis all library and classroom facilities would be
provided under a revised Third Education Project construction prcgram and all
science laboratories would be under the proposed project. Both projects would
provide student hostel and staff accommodation. Construction works would be
tendered simultaneously, and as a result, the building of academic facilities is
expected to make an early start during 1982.



-24-
6.05      The Construction Industry.  Malawi has an active construction industry
with some 20 firms registered as being qualified to undertake construction con-
tracts in excess of MK 1.0 million. Problems were experienced during late 1979
with supplies of fuel and imported materials reflecting Malawi's dependence on
the often congested Mozambique ports of Beira and Nacala. They are likely to
continue and have been taken into consideration in the costing of the project.
The value of building construction output during 1977 was estimated at M4K 28
million. The maximum annual value of construction under the project is
estimated at about MK 10.0 million in 1983.
Procurement
6.06       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's Guidelines for Procurement except for construction contracts costing
less than US$300,000 equivalent each and furniture and equipment contracts cost-
ing less than US$100,000 equivalent each. Such contracts would be awarded fol-
lowing competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group.  The aggregate total of such contracts is unlikely
to exceed US$1.0 million equivalent inciuding contingencies.
6.07       Architectural sketch designs and school layout proposals, draft
tender documents and master lists of furniture and equipment including proposed
grouping would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to the
extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procure-
ment. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank Group prior to award
would not be required for construction contracts costing less than US$300,000
equivalent each and for furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent.
6.08       Where international competitive bidding procedures are used, (a)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of
preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers, and (b) qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2
% of the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
6.09       Disbursements (Annex 1, T-8) would be on the basis of: (a)  75% of
total expenditures for civil works; (b) 80% of total expenditures (including
salaries) for project administration, (c) 80% of local off the shelf, 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory, or 100% of foreign expenditures for furniture and
equipment (including PIU vehicles); and (d)  80% of local or 100% of foreign
expenditures for pre-investment studies, travel, fellowships, and consultant
services. Disbursements for local expenditures for project administration would
be made against statements of expenditure, documentation for which would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by the Government for inspection by
the Bank Group during project supervision. Experience with previous Bank
Group-assisted education projects has demonstrated that the PIU has satisfactory
institutional capacity to use the statement of expenditure procedures. All
other disbursements will be fully documented.



-25-
6.10        Project expenditures would be audited in accordance with sound audit-
ing principles by a Government appointed auditor satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Audit reports should be provided to the Bank Group within nine months of the end
of the fiscal year.
VII - BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The project would provide an additional 3,960 places for secondary
students which would result in an annual production of almost 1,000 secondary
school graduates. These graduates would meet a significant proportion of the
incremental needs for skilled manpower throughout the economy. About 47% of the
secondary school places to be provided would be for girls; therefore girls' par-
ticipation in secondary education would increase from 31% to 35%. The project
would also improve life for children from the lowest socio-economic levels of
society. A study made of the socio-economic status of secondary school students
showed that about 50% of all students had parents with less than a full primary
education. This finding is similar to that of other studies in Africa, where
large numbers of secondary school students have come from the lowest socio-
economic groups. The project would also provide an additional 168 places for
Chancellor College students for training as secondary school teachers and would
also strengthen the training of scientists in Malawi who are currently in short
supply. Support for a National Education Plan would assist the Government in
making more effective its expenditure on education and would strengthen the
Government's overall planning capacity.
Risks
7.02      There are no major risks in the physical implementation of the pro-
ject. The only significant risk or uncertainty is a possible shortage of secon-
dary school teachers. In order to minimize this risk, Chancellor College of the
University of Malawi would prepare for review by the Bank Group an annual report
of its teacher training programs, the recruitment and placement of secondary
school teachers and proposals for any necessary revisions of its programs
(paras. 4.07).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM4MENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:
(a) starting October 1981 and annually thereafter for
a period of four consecutive years, Chancellor College
would prepare for review by the Bank Group
a report on its experience in implementing
secondary teacher training programs,



-26-
including recruitment of students and
placement of graduates, and its plans for
the subsequent years, including estimates
of expected enrollments and outputs and
proposed program or curriculum changes
(para. 4.07);
(b)  (i) the Government would prepare a National Education
Plan by December 31, 1982, and (ii) about one year from
the signing of the Credit and annually for four years
thereafter, the Government, jointly with the Bank Group,
would review the education budget in terms of its adequacy to
carry out its long term educational objectives
(para. 4.09); and
(c) a report evaluating the lessons learned during
project implementation would be sent to the Bank
Group for review within three months after the Credit
Closing Date (para. 4.10);
8.02       Subject to the conditions above, the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA Credit of SDR 32.2 million (US$41 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms.



uAL AWE
FOURr8 EDUCATION PROJECT
(in thousanids)
1.     Emg iuiyeotiranth                                   -. liedinn LH,IEa:tec Groatl-                          3.  Low _pioyment Orouth
1979      1980     1985    1990                                 1980       I9Y3       199                             i980       19085       1990
1.  Pouts requiring U"lm,r-        n yLnrdl
no .t3:nnaaLnt:
TotaL  number of positions                            29.9      33.1      42.1    56.5                                31.8       39.8        5..3                            31.5        36.6       45.3
Of oh) oh a) Stock at beginning
of period                                          23.5       24.9      25.9    31.9                                34.9       25.9        31.9                            24.9        25.9       31.9
b) Ufuiled        -icancius from
pLeviou-  period                                     6.4       5.0       6.8      8,4                                5.0        5 5         S.1                             5.0         5.2        2.9
o) Requirement doe to attriti-n                       -        0.4       1.8      1.9                                0.4        1.0         1.9                             0.4         1.8        1.9
d) Requirmenit due ti  gro-th                         -        2.8       7,6    12.3                                 1.5        4.6        11.4                              1.2        3.7        8.6
TotaL mne  positio-s                                   6.4       8.2      16.2    22.8                                 6.9       13.9        19.4                              6.6       10.7       13.4
Outpyut  f institutions                                1.4       1.4       7.8      8.5                                 1.4       7.           7.5                            _1.4 _      7.9       8.5
Unfilled vacameies at enu of petiod                    5.0       6.8       8.4    14.3                                 5.5        n.1         19.9                             3.2        2.9        4.9
2.  Pootu-eqoiriug MCI .nr -qui-aLe.t:
TotaL 1u-ber of positione                             37.6      40.6      53.6    72.9                                40.2       52.2        67.3                             39.8       47.9       58.6
06 whicb a) Stoek at beg-uning
of period                                           33.5     34.9       35.6    40.4                                34.9       35.6        40.4                            34.9        35.6       40.4
b) UDfilled vacancies fron
previous poriod                                     4.1        2.7      4.2       9.0                                2.7        3.8         6.6                              2.7        3.4        3.3
o9 Requirt   due to attiltion                         -        8.8       4.0     4.1                                 0.8        4.0         4.1                              0.8        4.0        4.1
d) RequLrement doe to gr>wth                          -        2.2       9.8    19.4                                 1.8        7.8        16.2                              1.4        4.9       10.8
TotaL sew po-ltitn-                                    4.1       5.7      18.0    32.5                                 5.3        15.6       25.9                              4.9       12.3       18.2
OutpuL of iustitutionu                                 1.4       1.5       9.0    12.9                                  1.5        3.0        12.9                             L_.5       9,0       12.9
UDfilled voranoirs at end of period                    2.7       4.2       9.0   _19.6                                 3.8        6.6         14.0                             3.4        3.3        5.3
3S. Posts requiring JC  or eqoiva-Iet:
Total  number of positions                            52.5      55.3      71.7    97.6                                54.7       67.4         84.2                            54.4       64.0        78.5
Of uhiIh a) Otunk ot boginnsu
of period                                           35.6      37.4      38.3    48.3                                37.4       38.3        48.0                             37.4       38.3       48.0
b) Unfilled vaeanoion from
prenions period                                      6.9       5.1      16.1    19.3                                 5.1       15.5        15.0                              5.1       15.2       11.6
e) Reqsieeueut don to attrition                       -        8.9      4.3      4.4                                 0.9        L,3         4.4                              8.9        4.3        4.4
d) Requirement dun to gro-th                          -       IL.9      13.0    25.9                                11.3        9.3         16.8                            11.0        6.2       s4.5
TotaL non ponitions                                    6.0      i7.Y      33.4    47.6                                 .7.3      29.1         36.2                            17.0       25.7       30.5
Output of igstitatin.                                 _1.8    18_           1 _4.  18.0                                   8       14.1        18.0                             1 8       14.1        18.0
UnfilLed v--ncies at end of period                     5.1      16.1      19.3    31.6                                15.5        15.0        18.2                            15.2       11.6       12. 5
(ALternate S-enario if        f Primarv Schnol Leaver. are Mp!-7oed  in JE Level Postions)
3b. Posts requiring JC or equivaient:
TotaL number of positions                             52.5      55.3      71,7    97.6                                 54.7       67.4        84.2                            54.4       64.0       78.5
Of whieh a) Stook at beginning
of period                                           35.6      39.8      43.1    58.3                                39.8       43.1        58.3                             39.8       43.1       58.3
b) Unfilled macanuses free
previous perotd                                      6.9       2.7      11.3      8.8                                2.7       10.7         4.5                              2.7       10.4        1.1
c) Requirement duo to atteitio-                       -        0.9       4.6      5.0                                0.9        4.6         5.0                              0.9        4.6        5.0
d) Requirement due to growth                          -       11.9      12.7    25.5                                11.3        9.0         16.4                            LL.O        5.9       14.t
Total ne-  positions                                   6.9      15.5      28.6    39.3                                 14.9       24.3        25.9                            14.6       20.9       20.2
Output of institutions                                 4.2       4.2      19.8    26.7                                  4. 2      19.8        26.7                             4.2        19.8       26.7
Omfilled ...anoi-s at end of pefiod                    2.7      11.3       8.8    i2.6                                 15.7       4.5         -0.8                            10.4         1.1      -6.5
NOTES:
1)  Stick (S) is -oeputed as foLLows: S= Sr-I  J;..1 + mt.t       1
where 'ii_L =ondmher leanlig the labor market  (doe Os st ritton) n: period t-I
and nt..l = ontput of es Oltatuiono ae period t-I
2)  Attrttiun   mber retirlug or dying.  The asoumd r a to is 1.57. pa. fur university gradnates and 7.51.  for  tier.  TOo
asas:nptioo is that univernity graduates hunt a higher Life enpertancy.
3)  JOE   Junior Certificate obtained after 10 ye2rs of educati-n
4)  MCE = Malawi Certificate obtaimed Rfter 12 years of education
5)  Normal  aumber of yearn of pei-lay education is 8 years
6)  iOgh eP1ym-nt gcowth pro3ection ansumes no change tn productiviity;    i                 t  Pj  ti                              growh wiL  foLLow   :t trtnds ohiol: ovoragud  0:00  14 p.. 
Iow growvth ptojeetin- assumes produ-tivity growth will average 2R p.a.
S -X3L: "A. AdnDytis of Meinwia' 1979 M-aspo:aer S-:r-vn"
at.:   7vor  24, 1980.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
MALAWI                                  Table 2
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED HIGHER LEVEL EMPLOYMENT, 1979
Total             Non-         Percentage
Occupational Category          Employment        Malawian       Non-Malawian
1.  Professional/ Technical
and related workers          21,716           2,859             13.2
Of which;
(a) Chemists, Physicists.
Scientists and Engineers
not elsewhere specified.        681              53              7.8
(b) Architects,
Engineers, Town Planners                        534
and related Technicians       1,386                             38.5
(c) Surveyors &
Engineering Technicians       1,257             349             27.8
(d) Doctors/Dentists and
related Assistants              579             189             32.6
(e) Nurses, Midwives
& related Health
Assistants                      941             249             26.5
(f) Accountants &
Auditors                        712             408             57.3
2.  Administrative and
Managerial Workers            4,127           1,772             42.9
3.  Clerical and related
Workers                      23,706           3,028             12.8
Of which;
(a) Stenographers &
Typists                       2,105             648             30.8
(b)  Bookkeepers & Cashiers 3,443               702             20.4
4.  Managers (Wholesale &
Retail)                         225             120             53.4
5.  Farm Managers &
Supervisors                   3,314             669             20.2
6.  Production, Supervisors &
Foremen                       3,645             661             18.7
TOTAL               56,733           9,120              16.1
Source: "An Analysis of Malawi's 1979 Manpower Survey"
Date:   November 24, 1980.



- 29-
*   0  NP/ 2    N09    ii T0TAL31   OF0 PURLIC  1                     r          iPRO.                                           I        S.R1      Zn
;CAPITR   0E1:SPOI       OCTO                       LITEC- 1  9.ICOoPLE-   ST-:C.RCP09ES3SC ISTS-UIN
S       SI  A    S 3TO  o.       S.      FGR           :ACy      3ENROLTN            3EN TStIALARY lOtION RATE 14SENRUL3EA3E9LLI
*  2ARKETI  91000LtC:DEAUTEOIEXP  ALLUICATEDI   RATE  SWATIat :RTE FUAtOOR    ROLATION 3PFIJM PRI.30AT1)J  :01 ER                 RATIUI2
PU.   PRICES;  EWP.,  S  TO                 TO:       SI  U     3NET   3PI.C.IEAO   TO GNP/ 1TO SEC.   3NT 311-GUS
YR:OLL(U.3  (uS$10  16NL      S  FDsu. :PRT,  3EC.  I).:ADVLT3T3  II)   :CCOLh()STEO    s CAPITA S             I5)      3()   sE0          I     I
I                                                      S         3                    S                   S                            
:(1) 33  12) 1  15)    ;  (A)   I           (5)       I Ce)    S(T)I      (t)T    S (9)        u)         (I         OD       (3    (9 
ADvANCES
AUTRA   TA     TS5.e200          5.30    8.SET   OAT   Sty  1ST    99          9R        9 30     260       2.0        99        50       19       6.
CANADA   7R  23,0   9,ITO        ~~~7.30    e:TF    9    39    2      99       99       I10        21.       2.)       10         9        I      2.0
51030090 !.ACP.TO 61,~4  9,60      9.0!   I52         .        .        9         0  O..                       ..        10        9        21      [2.200
1090             Ti131.6   4,              .E   ao.TE    90,31STY   IIUT;;    99       990       991       25        2.20       99C       95RY   20C       0,690
M,60HERLANDA    TA   l.9    .390G        9,00   22.40D   20    35    29        99      96        93        I:        2.0F       99        92       13     12.30
'AC  EALAND    T3    3.1G '.2000          5.2     .        39   DR    29       99       9        9         26         .         99        NT       19     20.0
NORAY            T      ,    R0A          7.2    I;.4      59    29    15      99      99        99        16        1.5        99        62       it     I11.3
SWEDEN      70   0,~b '2  Rto        RP     I'.        3    2      12     99       999       99       16        *..        907       ROc      15      30.001
0.0.     75   So.0   3.70S       T.I    13.9~ ~~ Os    Al    IA       99       99        ...        4        2.0        ...       NA       17     21.0
U.0.A.           TO 212.2 97 00           5A    1.00   ...    57o    A         9        0        9          2 ..                99 997             19$    9100
EUROPE
GRECE-         ~ 76    9.1  2,59o         2.6    10,9      ST    20    21    ReR       99x       020       SI       2,0         TOE       00x      27     0500
IrELAD           TA    31b,20            93       39       AIly  910   l4Y   0         I 00      99A       35                   9 A05     65o      39     I.T
PORTUGAL   77   ~~~~9I1 ,So         3.     10.9      41    22    15      70r       02      60        I9                              I 2.2 TO 0  D     0.00
010661           75  212 1.2 0            90      04        A    19    13      90      001,,     ..        21       ...         90        99X      22     10.0
APR16      TA  ~~~~~~35BG 2,990     2.0 102          099   2o             RA     LOSTX.Y              304     ..           ..       TR       30       T.O
AFRI2CA
ILOEI             9    0     1,6          .      214 T?    IRA   269   21K    359      090$      ROOT      ITO       4.39      50207      3507    3TK      9.00K6
BENIN            TA    02        Ao       7.2    36.40    403   231)  OlU    11D       4900      TO0       537      25.a        450       110      39     07
900004CRN        70    A,R      620       S.9    19.0      4R    39    IS      55      00        to        33        9.3        50        20       22       1.s0
NUOURDI          TA'S   ,3      1300      0.7    D2.1R    460   330R  230    lt        230       90        33        9.0        22         So      16      0.0
CAOEROON         To    UT       329       37     210        3    93    20              NO        95        52       9,0         20         90      29A     0.9010
I...    To     10      220       3.00.  1TDO      96    19'.        .      . 900        25         R       ...          10        00      2700    0.237
COD75    9.0           I200      3.     300       IC2.. Ia             S       29307    00        6090    15.0          A         aZBy   30        0.01By
0000I0I)        TA     1. 30   SloF      6.D    19.13    90   1321   21       S0?    1133        65       65        6.         90        SIx      22       3.90
(G VPT           T8   3A4.T      00      5.5      ...      30    AS    26     090      73        00        30?       a.          2        919      177     15.00
ATHIaPI&        77  29.2       100       2.9    12.5      09    31    19      30       26                 so 5      ..          3         a       IA       ..
I00Q7 .5!  2.990                 9.0    20.60    200s     9    lID    ...    300        391       961       0.         109       A        21C      0.29?
,0019TON,                       ITO       0.3     t15      96    25     6      il      27        913                             2        13       25
G0006            TA    9,9!F   5900'      ,..    39.7      03   200   2000   ...       boOxy     620       500                  LA.19     39ev    161      1.090;
GUINEA           TA    97       100F      9.30 ..          60   31    30       ..      30        6R        95       12.00F       061       13X      26       0.00
I7RYCASa6  '           6bD        .     23.1      03    96    I3       OR     50        0         913       7.)        9         37r       6       0.9
01900      T9   15,5~~~~S  0S  0.                     I    1     19       S      9         74        40        6.0        91        19       20        .
L.STO            29   1.3    360         S.5 3o 0.         *1    2     20      52      6         51         9 93                6         1        23      0.90
tIRETHA          OT     .T       30        3.1    12.      23    13   260       0      01         .        59 4t0               TN        290      16        .
OWAEAOCA         77    I,        0         ,     2.01    013  20 19,    50         90            3         9          .)        S         30       03       .7
.C        .Cl   TOAD! ~                  0.20   33.0!    o    2TE   20        10!      22!       ..        C        ,5          0         6       230        7
OA0A1006          I     1,3     20        9.0     000.                         10      1700                229       0..        I.          o       0
MOITRS           70    094    20           .     1.         0     6     N      00       0        9         20         .5         9 S5              20         31.5
MOROCCO  76   14.2  020  6.0    15.2       590  009~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~ 13  20f  60  35  39'O  0.0        90        O       21        .0
-ALAI            75   73.0!    390F      0.10 23.207   43F   lAT   02F    ..           .90       ...       39      9 .          ..         oT     21        .0
CR00310          73    9.0 1     00!2    5.21   20.00                          to,2    52X       ...       212A       .         ...        2X      13      023A
SEEA.7S.U.,.                                     2.         6    3     2       0       3          ..       4         0)         2         10      21        .5o
T00(1         70    9.)       95      2.      I1.       55    10    21     0             99 .           24        0.0                   5s     IS3        3
SUORa            76   55,9     S20       9.5I    9,9       00R  4S    13A    20        39X       TA        33        3.          03       29      20           1.0
ISEAZLO          77T   2.5      560      6.10   12a        37    3   3         65      92        99        37        9.0        6430              2          .
O0,ERIZAN        74   10.11   230o       6.00, I10.0       031  19Y  10Y    ...    496XY                   30        3.0         9K9   200                 0.30y
0000GA           77 S2         4 3a      5.5    26.0       30   20    DI'   10         79        00        5         6.5        202        -      99       2.0
SIERRALZNE75   1,0F    23*f              3.000  230.70    391   001   221    256       5300                32(         DE       190        601    234      0.560b
31066ALIA        77    0,0      31        3.     23.       3S    Io   32       SC      413       2         51.29.0              2920              25i     2I00
flOOR1           76  23.6       190      6.0.  22.2        09   23    20       I                           360 03    2.0        91        liA     270      3a.0
200014AI        76    5.1      99        6.     15.       30    22    22      39       970      00        99        4.H        01        10       23        .50X
160000           77RIC   AR   a 36 000SI2N2O                                                                            0        5                At          I
ONOOA         79   52  2,20            5.      19.1      3     3e   33      o3       99        g        26l9.3 6i                      75       1t9       .
AIRoADSit.2 160                          03    221         93    3     16     09      06          9        D         3.3          A       99y  IT
COsT   RIA       10   2I.1    3690       6.90  33.700Y 7          7 3   0E  E   2E    SAD  93    7         3 ...                77 3Y             39       3,3A00
ORIRCO  OE0'. 77 S90           9.       5.0    23,9      02    2     22      01C     0         IT        50       3;.30       6         14       2       7.00
EL ALTRDE        77    9.1      07       90       7.       0           27      62      900       32        50        2.2        al        23f    21        7.001
OASROONAA        73 6.0            G      2.     30.90    55    23      9      3T      66X       26        35        3.0        69        16      25       9,509
a1909110         76    021   1.070        0.9    16.2      37    33    22     06       92        92        39        9. 4       0                 25       7.00
O                MEsICO~~~~~9ABA0  lb  10.9   1,06*o       I1303.0           0     6 2204 71    76     3100       32        96        3.0        63        IRoy    ID 7       90
a100A0          TA7   2,3      700       2.0    09.       00    13   130    570        65       21        332.                 9         I         90      70
P9600           TO           l'0 1.00   ,220..o.02                   .31   13  00     97        OR        32         .3        00        99      3M       60
AAEYT00          70   06a100              09     1.         3     6     0      0       o         02        1         2.         A         51       0S     23.00
De0(1010     EP7o       .        35       .      17.6$.        .     .     .00 i       009       20        2         5!         .3.                           Do30
L"SAoL          7512.3   1300             0.0     24      90 21 21             9        0                 21?:        22.      T.         6        01       .
EOOOO            75 ,R          700S o    -O   20.06        '          a      62 .6     . 600    ...  -                         *I...      20 
00*TEMAL         79    0.0      010!      So 3.0           0    235   39       63      920       39        335        .   3      9        62      20s       ,0
DAAuA           765      9     4O 60     2.0    21.0      .0    13G  22G       3      la        30        39        1.0        60        17       12      4.C
0600,IC          75   06,00    0900          o 9.000 21.7   I 'RO  227   350    76    31200      3         3900      3.0        70         O       2300       SS0.6 y
dOUARGUAP        75    2,636   ,3TOG     2.0    05. a      0"    30   26      90       030       ,.        20        ..         93        .       20        .0
vEONlDOELo T  75   12.3  2.SAOA          0.6    19.9       lOs 3 200 30    776         9I        ,,.       30        2.0        ..,       33      ,.    2...



- 30 -
CG"4A44TIVI E0MIGTIOR INOICA9D*8   (COAITD*                                                Pa.. 2 of 2
FEBRUARY 3, L901
S   S       3          3         3               3         a        ai                  1         3                   2 3     3       I
2      GRPj I I 080- ti TOTALSE  OFP Uotoe                 a I                rpR*1  348.F*I.   I             I       isEC   I        3
3CAPITAt DEVOTE03PUBLIC  I EBUCATION    aLITER- a PRI. tCOMPLE- 93TU-  S3CH.TEACH3PROGRESS-83SEC. 23T0- 3HIOMER3
S       I  AT  I Te Ebtt.t  E50. t REFCURRENT    tACO          SEMROLLtTIO0A       Z0ENTt3SALARY 1N13DM RATE IENROLL30ENTB,ENMOLL:
3   3R8RqKT:I(PU.LIC OEVOTED3EXP ALLOCATED: ,RATE IRATIO IRAT! FOR:PER,,;SOLATIO   IFOMPR.RATIO :PERCHIRATIO 
S  OP   PR CE8I  EP.   a  TO    a           TO:S      UC   F  2CNT  tPRI.CH. TEACH   TO GNP  ITU SC.  I MET  ITEACH  653,
YRsmlLLS.I (US$31 ONLY)  t  EoU. IPRy. 3EC. RIl.gADULTS3I  (113  :CYCLEMIIER    t CAPITA   S  (I)                   3 113   308    I (23        
I       S3     1-          r         t                I        3                                I                          I      I       I
I(1) t3  (23 1   13)   S  (4)1 a           CS)      S 163    2(73   S  (a)    a (93 3  (103    a (II)            3(123   1(13) S3143   I
-      - - - - - -- -- - -- - -- --- - - -- ---- -- - -- - -- - - --                                                      -- - -- -       -                  -
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFSHANIBTAN    778  4.3   3806     1.8    11.6      87    19   is      32      290       A9        57       3.1G        62        80      17      3.00
BANGLADESH       73  860:4      906      3.    Q2.2      44f  220  21Y        3       60       *.       40         .          .       23x0    2
INDIA           75 62.4        34r I    I.8 *T ...29                                 6509               A2A       ..         ..          xY tlj4G ''a 9 "X  ID20AY    2.380
3ROONE$?*       7o 133.0      360       2.8     5.1      268    2     5    62       92        4h        32       3.0        70        19      17       2.00
IRAN       ~~~73  33.66a  2,606r    3.3   12.6       5 05   18s  326   s0       77        784       32       5.08       8OA       2       32       4.32CY
IR80            75  33.8G 1 398C        b.ft   16.3D  .....              ..  6C      5309      *.       22        ...         ..      3519    26C       .7
JORDAN           77   2.3      557      4.5K   7.3K    256   508    38   70          970       83       32        2.0        91       68       22     30.60
KW8A            78  37.0   1,241        2.8    27.5      35   29    36      93      1023      94        49        2.9        91       60       85     i8.90
LESANON         72    3.2G 1,070r       3.5    38.0      39    A0    30    68        86        85       39        2.0        63       260      25     23.00
MALAYS1a        76  32.6       B60      6.?   26.0       42    34   35      A0C      95       95        32        3.7        75       AR       28      3.00
NEPAL            80  13.3      319H     2.4      0.8     27    IA   38       390     77        30       36K       2.36       ...      16       288       .
DORM            72   0*8F 2.300F         3.95t   3.8     98     -   -       to       281       95       2Fl       7.0        ...      0.00 
PRKIISTA5       75  71 36    186          .8     75      45   25    18      21       47X       50       39~   2.01           ..         o      1       60
9898    .0.    7      .6     88               16.1     38    36   04       02      57?       TP        3        30         9          27     2        .0
PI4TLIPPiNES    74  83.20    4206       2.5   (4.9       73    1s   12      87      1040       ...      34       15.0        .        460       .     21.00
818669980       74   2.36 2,5806        2.70    S.2T    35o  390   177    756    30909        728      SlY       9.955               AllY   28        7.68Y
SYRIA           75   7.6G   83Q6        3.6      6.9     39   25   26       53       89       TO        35        2.0       92        0        20     32.00
THAILAN9        77  84*1       430      4.8eV  20.0      5s   30   is       880      83       30        35       S.4Ok      79        28       25      3.00
TURKEY          73  80.9G 3,0190        5.6CY 20.6CT    .. ...                                ..y        SAY      ..         .        200     27D0    5.830
YEPEN           73   5.46    3006       0.5      4.0     Asp  ;30  239    30,        350      18        36        5.        7          S       19      06.0589
YEMEN 8.D.R.  76    1.7        280      8.6      ...     57   28      8     20       890      48        30       5.0        94        SIX      28      0.10
NuMBERt 00 COUNTRIEOS                   59    93        931   90    B8     92      300       78        94          74      02        SR      Sb        86
ANEs                               30.5-   13.8-   (20. (8-  (3-    (S-        (13-      (13-     336-       (1.5-    (4.       3.4.    38-       (.01-
32.8 3 34.0)   96 372)  50)   993            133x3    99 3      69 3      25.0 )  1003        97  I  45)    83.03
*uARTMtEI20994 S                      5.8   23.2       89    35   22      87      98        93        42          6       93        as      25     33.0
MEDIANS                   4.2    36.0      02   26    38    57        98        65        34          A       68        24      22       3.0
LOAL "E   31.0    02.4                     38   23   13       25      56        35        29          a       A1        11      l8       1.0
M AGNITUDELNIL, R NE(iLIGIBLE 8.3973                           M86.....
7QUESTION01LE                      C:11972                      P3INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLURINS33  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D=1973                             Q.CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                          OR 3880 MISSIONS
.6 CO..ANED  .ITH PRTMARY          E.1974                       R*RINISTRY OF EDUCATION  (MOE) ONLY                  3 To 14 3880 MISSIONS
8.'UNDER REVIEW                     F.1975                       S.oth  AND STATE GOVST. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
G.1971.                      T.EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                     STATISTICAL
H.1977                      U:PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
K=3978                       V INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENOITURE
XOINCLUDINGUOVERAGEO STUDENTS
Y=UN3ESCO soURCES
COM4PARATIVE EDUCATION U8TA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMIENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HORE VER,UN THE 68333 00 THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULU BE APPROAICHED .4178
C'aEAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE ANEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE RANK MISSIONS FEOM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATE.S OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAYE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LImITS, TO CHECK TH4E
ACCURAC* OF THE 0nATA  NEYERTNELESS9SUCH DATA ARE STILL IRPEkFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THENRA NK  is 000M    O PROAE THEM
PROG ESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN TYHE USE OF TmESE DATA, THE FOLLOJWING DUALIFI0CRATItTINS USHOIULD BE BORNE IN
MINDI
(I3'EGUCATIUMH 83 DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2S3PRIMARY  EDUCAT ION REFERS TO EDUCATTUN AT THE 01437 LEVEL AND " SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECUNDARY
LEV EL REGARDLESS OF TYPE ,(CE.G. GENERA L, TCHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 3
(S3LIITERACY RAIES-(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN4 MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIOJNS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAI ANY UNIFORM OEFINITTON OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOAED CONSISTENTLY3
(03-PU RLIC EAxPENDITURE ,IN EDUCATION;(COLS.3,4 AND 53 REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND 0UASI.RU L IC AGENCIES:
I5)'ENROLLMENT RAT3uSI1COLS 7, 12 AND 143 REFER TU SCHOOL YEAR 440 REAN THE PERCENTAUGE OF ELIGIBLE LH3LDAEN ENROLLED FULL-TIRE
ON THE APPROPRIATE SCMOUL, PUBLIC AND PRIVArE 4Y LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUjBJECT rO A AIDE MARGIN OF ERRUR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING 10 VARIATIOiN IN THE ACCURACY' OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREIQUENTLY ARE 'ISHER TMAN THF NUMBER OF STuDOENTS ACTUALLY IN.  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS AMUSE INCLUSION- 13  INDICATED  AT
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



MALAWI
FOURTH EDUCATIOE PROJECT
SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHER NEEDS, 1978-1990
Enrollment                           Teachers                              Teacher 2/    New Teachers 2/
Year           Total 1/  As % of       Student-   Malawian       Expatriate         Total      Wastage and   Needed for
children    Teacher                                                  Promotion       Next Year
aged 14-17  Ratio                                                    5%
1978           15 500       3.4         20:1         587             206             793            29               61
1979           16 500       3.5         20:1         625             200             825            31                29
1980           17 300       3.6         21:1         623             200             823            31               84
1981           18 200       3.7         21:1         676             190             866            34               88
1982           19 100       3.8         21:1         730             180             910            37                94
1983           20 100       3.9         21:1         787             170             957            39                96
1984           21 100       3.9         21:1         844             160            1004            42              100
1985           22 100       4.0         21:1         902             150            1052            45              107
1986           23 200       4.1         21:1         964             140            1105            48              116
1987           24 400       4.2         21:1        1032             130            11.62           52              119
1988           25 600       4.3         21:1        1099             120            1219            55               127
1989           26 900       4.4         21:1        1117             110            1281            59               130
1990           28 200       4.5         21-1        1243             100            1343            62
1/  Assumes 5% enrollment growth per year starting in 1979.
2/ Malawian only.
Source:  MOE and Bank estimates
Date:    August 5, 1980                                                                                                               >>-



,    0     '    .oN'                N              NN  w > W  N9 -N        oNF 0 O   4       0000  4
4                      N            O N@ r   oNO                              O <         N O           0.4 t99 H 9 r g p    a<   3r  r o 
.1 9         3   -N o  -          N _0.                  4             VN          N        '1   N   N   N   N   N  a= > D <      
N,   0     0 N-   NO   N_                     2   NO    4         4   N 9O    4                      N.  0        
N   N           0      NO           -   N.   N7            0               =0 o    N  N   Nw N   N        
N   N   c   NL  o-    0. @                  ON    0-   0   -   0 g0   00    0                   0   N         N     n X t
S~~  ~           ~~            0>    o. 0            0    0 .   N                    0   0r  =    N         N       : = 0 3
a       =       =             x  .000   N-      c0 ot            No     O O.w,-o            3 R
o 0           No g   24          
-    N        NO     0  N=                          N         
1~~~~~~~ 0  0. 00  ,N  ,                                                  0                                         
O                                 0                                        _   4O NO                   _   _        N                       n
N 0  N             N   ON                                 r                                           i5      4       o= W
NO    ON                                  6                                  oN 0'     .    W               N *VlI   ON
N        n                                                                         .* 0_  000'    _                  0                      >!
p n   01 .0 N                                                               ~N r N                                |                         6
O        p_0ON;                                                _      ;           0;         _N N    N              N  3        _O              E 
O ~      ~ N                                                 o.  .oN                                                  N-    o          P      
OW                                                                                                                           ' oN  
N ~ ~ N       0   .0   N          n           g0   0         n
NON   N-N  No       .0  .0       JNo  N                                   NN  ND  |N    '      r0 
O  O N N O 00 N 0b                         .000'00N0'                               ON o    v- I_0
0~~~~~ N.                                                                                                        'I   _ @ in  
0;                                 N                                            - ,@ c w   f   
-N                     N
NO   N~~~                                                       ~~~~ N  _  0' p           Mn
_~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~                                                 0



-33-                                          ANNEX I
Table 6
.. .E
FOURTE EDUTICN ?A2ECT
Expenditure on Education 1975176 to 1979/80
1975/76         1976/77           1978/79           1979/80
Actual          Actual            Actual           Revised
Estimate
1.  Total Government recurrent          84,421.7        93,642.8         140,433.3          180,167.3
expenditure
2. Ministry of Education
recurrent expenditure             11,992.2        12,826.6          17,839.3          20,404.4
3. Ministry of Education
recurrent expenditure
as % of total government
recurrent expenditure                 14.2            13.7              12.7              11.3
4. Total Government capital
expenditure                     70,005.3         55,907.2        113,491.3          147,829.8
5. Capital expenditure
Ministry of Education             1,059.8          1,340.0          6,992.4           6,115.7
6. Capital expenditure
Ministry of Education
as % of total capital
expenditure                           1.5              2.4              6.2               4.1
7.  Total Education expenditure         13,052.0         14,166.6         24,831.7          26,520.1
8. GDP at factor cost current
prices                          367,400.0        417,700.0        646,100.0          763,900.0
9. Total Education expenditure
as % of GDP                            3.6              3.4              3.8               3.5
10.  Total Government expenditure       154,427.0        149,550.0        253,924.6         327,997.1
11. Total Education expenditure as
% of total government
expenditure                            8.5              9.5              9.8               8.1
12. Capital expenditure as % of
total Education expenditure            8.1              9.5             28.2              23.1



IRALAWS
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJELCT
SUMMARY1 SF ENROLL?OEO   AND ESTIMATES PROJECT COSTS
1X2 E25  RLATE   1 010   -  0.793 lIE
SCALT  ACO           (000 )'S    (0001',S
CIVIL WORKS
EDUCTN LEVEL             NO.    AREA,         SITE DEVRLPIR                 NOILDEW.                    fl215TURE                  R22OIPNEJ               PROOP. SERVICEDS             PROJ. AMIN12                   (THER               PROJECT  IS 28K             $SO
NO0.     PROJECT iTUS                                        TYPO  PLACES SQ.2I. LOCAL FoREIGN   TOTAL LOCAL POREIGN   TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL LOCL FOREIGN   TOTAL   TOTAL
--   -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  - - - -  - --       - -  - -  -  - -          - -  --  -      - -  -       - -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -      -  - -  -  - -  - -  -      - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  ------------------
1.0.0      SECONDARY EDUCATION
1.0.1                       M.IicRee,Onldi         0              5    360      2662        89      59       148    500       330       046      32        30        71       0       72         81     36        24        60                                                             672      533    1203    1516
IB   400      2151        66     44        109    374       249       673       17      21         39       2       20        22      26        10        4        486S    352                                                          0,37    1053
I     20      1220       40      27         67    220       152       380      19       23         42      -        -         -        I6      I1         27-                                         -          -      303       2I2      318      640
1.0.2      ChitEpo                                 S              S    340      0505       103      69       171    503       342       N36       19       24        43       7       65         72     37        25        62                          -       -       --                 600      524    2203    1514
B    320      2556        00      59       147    n4I       294       733       18       21        30       2       29         22     32        21        53               -         -       -        -          -       501      415      995      2'25
0     24       760        51     34         06    256       171       427      I5        10        33      -        -         -        10       12        31                                                             342      236      577      725
2.2.3      MeImbe                                   0             0   400       2984       133      89       222    72 7      478      2195      29        33        64       0       70         07      5I       34        a6-                         -                                  930      7204    2652    2070
O    4805     2092        90     60        150    405       323        000      19      24         43       2       19         22     34        25        57                          -       -       -          -       630      449    1080    1350
O 22      1623        73     50        125    605      270        674      23       20         50      -        -         -       29        20        40 B                                                           531      367      I90    1230
1.0.4      LiEoo8eo                                s              0    400      2984        84      56       240    478       319       787      29        35        64       9       78         07      34       22        SB                                                              3        1       14      23
B    240      207         30     20         30    616        112      201       10       12        22        I       0         22      2                  20                          -       -       -          -       221      263      304      483
Mit..d.                                  N~~~~ 22       2613       40      32        79    270        IS0      450       23       20        50      -                   -       1        13         32                         -                                   59      252       621      760
1.0.5      OIEod                                                       240      209         42      28        69    230       158       396       26       20        36        9      78         0       17       II        20 1                                                           322      295      626       275
B 400       1092       54      36        07    30        20         I2   29           23        42        2        I1a      2       22       14         36     --                          -        -         -       403      296       699      879
0 14       000        27      20        45    155       203       250      14       17         31      -             -            11         7        18-                                -        -          -       207      246      333      4494
2.0.6      Ntcheo                                   0             0    240      2091        73      50       125    376       250       426       25       20        34        7      64         72      27       10        45               -          -       -       --                 502      401      901    22534
a    256       953        39     26         65    170       223       203        0       10        29        1        9         t0     13         a       21                          -II-I 3                                     267      397       50
H     24      2009        34     23         56    1647      1132      279      14        17        32      -        -         -        12        0        20-                                -                           227      26       30G0
1.0.7      BalmAn                                   5             1    200       934        36      24        60     10       123        307      27       20        37       8       40         76      13        9        22                          -       -       --                 257      2464     502       632
0    346      2773        Sn      36        90    260       279       447       14       17        31       2       15         27      29       13        32                         -        --                         3 57     260      626      775
H     12       056        32      22        54    166       212       277       14       27        30      -        -         -        12        0        20               -          -       -       -          -       224      057      361      600
2.0.0      Olnotyr-                                 0             0    480      2904        84      56       140    470       319       797       29       35        64        9       78        07      34       22          6-                                                           633      520    1244    1430
8    240      1007        30     20         50    168       112       282       10       22        22        I      10         II    22          0        20                         -                -          -       222      263'    304       603
H     22      2613        48      32        79    270       100       450      23        26        50      -        -                  19I      1         32                          -       -       -                  359      252      821       768
1.0.9      Chi-de-lo                                5             0    240      1053        74      50       224    981       254       635       23       28        52       0        72        00      27       20        46                          -       -       --                 524      420      956    1177
O    200      2353        51      34        83    261       274       433       17       21        39        2       29        22      29       12         31                                                            352      262      612       770
H     13       673        30     20         50    154       103       266       17       21        30      -_                          12        7        26-                                -                           222      252      362      456
1.0.20    Soloeje                                   0                  400      2984       206      71       177    574       302        956      29       35        64        9       70        07      41       27         608                                                           758      59      2352    1700
B 400      2092        72      40       120    580       250        646      19       24        43        2       19        22      20       18         46                         -       -        -         -       59       360      07310
0     22      2623        60      40       200    524       224       340       23       20        50      -        -          -       23       25        38                          -       -       -          -       429      299       720      926
1.0.21    Tombs                                    0              0    480      2904        09      59       148    502       335       036       29       33        64       9        70        07      35       24         59-                                -        --                63       50      293        51
0 240     1007       3 1     21         52    177       110       295      10       12         2 2      1       20         21      22        0        221                                                            2332    269       402      305
O     22      1613        50      33        73    203       29        472      23        20        50      -        -          -       20       2 3        33                         -       -       -          -       376      263      639       004
000-TOTAL OF 1.0.4                STlOIST             0  3960    25004         914    620       1525   4940    3298         8246    265       324        5089     90      010       900    552        2 33      506      -        --                -        --               6570    5277   1722047   14901
B04RDI01            0   5842    17122        604    403       107   3206    2137          5343    163       209        361      19      171        290    229       252       30       -        -          -      -        -          -     4220    3062    70:2    0159
0000000            0    195    13382        495    33         825   2 670    1705       4463    206        252       430           -              -       I90     227        317     -3                                                     569    2494    663    7626
TOTAL                             555980    2014   2343       333 7 10032    7221    180032    634          7 74      1408     200      900      2009    7 72       514      12835                                                         14359   10032   25191   52607
2    U00  !I REOIT   OP 0   MALAWI
2.0.1      Chaclo Cole0                                           1    160      3045       2 57    205       262   1040       699       2 74 7    130     249       306       93      039       932    152       200        251    -         --                 -        --               1507    I'921    3498    4400
FOOGTNOTE l2                                    0    168      2260        7 3     40       121    40'4      322       006       63       77       140        0       34        38      70       46        216                                                            693      520    12222      15536
0     23      206         65      4 3      109    434       290       724       33       41        74      -         -         -       62       42         04     -        -          -       --                         59       41      102        27
5.5.0      PROJECTAODIINISTRATIOS2                  -             0                                                                                                                                                               370      12 5       500      -        --                 3 75     225      550      629
4.4.0      PSEONVOSTOENT/STUOORS                    -             0     ---                        -          -      -         -         -       -        -          -       --                                                              -         -      400      320       000      400       320      000    L006
SASEILINE COST I9  NK                                                                     2305   139        3040  1279 7    0532    21529    8660    1061          1299    206    1033         2059   103        702       1756   375       173        500    400       5 20      800   280009   14 13 2   32221
10  us $                                                                 900    1536      404  16097   10732    26029   1092    2335             246    258    2332         2509   1325        003      2206   4 72       157        429    444       403      1306  22753   172326   44529
CONTINGENC ITS
UNFORESEEN    IN   HEK                                                                    23.    154        305   1200       053      2133       43       33        94       10       53       103    24          7        174     19         6        23      48       32         00    17536    1262      2990
20  US 2                                                                290      9        404   160    1473          2403      55       4          12      13      12          29    232        00       221    24          0         3       60       40       101    21 84    23086    3772
PRICE            20   HE                                                                  424    250        925l  34 67    1607       5073    224        192       41S       53      3313      306    285        1312      420B    97       122        2      230       60        1 90    4002    26 33    7527
08   us $                                                                707    363       1151   4560    2071        6301    702        240       0 22      67      419       406    059         16       52     17I2      20        250    244        74       239    6241    3325    9456
GRAND TOTAL    IN  02                                                                     31415  1983       3246  1 75 44   10992    28535   2236    2305          Z441    269    2079         0544   2444        3215     2349   491        254       644    658       4122       07    24707   10029   42738
18 us 1                                                              3902   2403       6474  22067   22826    3589    1429    140             3074      339    2067       305   1819    1130          2954   92         193       811    079       32         346   32278   22478   5356
FOOTOOTE3S:
I-Gino .....oded  coder Third  Ed-clion  Project Cr-di   910-OAT



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
MALAWI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
1/                                       Accumulated         Undisbursed
Quarter                Disbursements             Disbursements         Balance
1                        -                         -                 41.00
2                       0.05                      0.05               40.95
3                       0.15                      0.20               40.80
4                       0.30                      0.50               40.50
5                       1.50                      2.00               39.00
6                       2.00                      4 00               37.00
7                       2.00                      6.00               35.00
8                       3.00                      9.00               32.00
9                       3.00                     12.00               29.00
10                       4.00                     16.00               25.00
11                       5.00                     21.00               20.00
12                       4.00                     25.00               16.00
13                       3.50                     28.50               12.50
14                       3.00                     31.50                9.50
15                       3.00                     34.50                6.50
16                       2.50                     37.00                4.00
17                       2.00                     39.00                2.00
18                       2.00                     41.001'
1/   From date of effectiveness
Equivalent to SDR 32.2 million.
Source: Bank Staff



MALAWI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED FULL-TIME ENROLLMENT AND POPULATION PYRAMID - 1978
Male                                                         Enrollment                                                      Female             Age group
Age           Grade                  Enrollment                                          Male                            Female                                    Enrollment           Population
23                                                                                                                                                                                        91000
22                                                                                                     40  10                                                                             94000
HIGHER
21              4                                                                                     110  30                                                                             97000
20              3                                                                                     300  100                                                                           100000
t                                       75%                          r                                                                       ,                        25%
19             2                                                                                      520  170                                                                           103000
18              1                                                                                    710  240                                                                            107000
SECON DARY!)
17             4                                                   L                              2600 * 900                                                                            110000
16              3                                                                                  2800    1100                                                                          114000             1
+                                       69%                                                                                                                           31%
15              2                                                                                 3000    1600                                                                           118000
14              1                                                                                  3200    1600                                                                          123000
PRIMARY
13             8                                                       40000C                                                                            L                               128000
+~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                                               14200
12                                                                               2 6500                           0      00                                                              133000
+                                                                                                                                                                                        i 30
11     8       6                                                           33500                                       19200                                                            140000
10              5                                                        35400                                             23000 0                                                       146000
                            ~~~~~~~                                                                       ~~~59.5%    20040.5%
+                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46300  ~ ryu             .r u            .    370163000
8              3                                           560                        c..,Bt,,'O'410                                                                                    160000
7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~80 21                                                                                                              0                                    155000
+              1    109600                                                                                                                                      , ~         92000       170
100                          604800204                                                                             0s                         100
J Full Time Enrollment
U  Age Group Population
1J NOTE: Enrollment at secondary level includes primary teacher training and technical training but does not include                                                                                           rt X
Malawi Correspondence College
Source: Bank estimates and "Malawi Education Statistics: 1972/73 - 1978/79."                                                                                                      World Bank - 19407



MALAWI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRIMARY                                                                   SECONDARY                                                                   HIGHER
Day a-d Basd,,,g                                            Si,th
Secondary Schools                                           Form                             Overseas Studies
Shool Year  11                                               5Ans and Scc
Secoidaay Teacher LaiCeiit
Treachre,r
Training IT-3) Cectii
Mala Ci Corri-ceaoe ofD _rlocuti-
P,imwV TeacherT,ai.iWg (T-B2)                                                 1
1   2         3        4         5        6         7        8                  9        10            11        12                               I3        14        15           is        17        18       19        20
School Ye.,i         l         l        }        T         ll                                             ll                                                              
Age  6                            9        10       1I1       12       13                 14        15            Is        17                               is        19       20            21        22        23       24        25
EXAMINATIONS
4>Primary School Leaving Certificate
.1-JuiorC-nificate
Malawi C;i   MaenfEicto
<0> Higher School Cetificate                                                                                                                                                                                        WVord B-k-19405
3 To be sopported under Fourth Education Project
M H



MALAWI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Minister
r -------_                                     1_----
-  -  -  -  -           ~ ~~~Principal                                            r I- -                                   
ISecretary
l~~~ct                                                                                                     WI                        I  I   Ntoa
Ch ichevva         Malawi CertificateUniversity of                                                                   Manstite of      Malaw5i Book          NaLibraryl       Malawi CollegeI
Board              Tfeductiong Band                                                        I     Malawi    II Edlucation           I    Service              Service        Of Accounting
L ~~ i            Board           ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~j                    - ~ ~              -~~~ Secrtar
Chief I nspector                                          Chief Education
of Schools                                                  Officer                                                                                     .                                              I
Assistant Chief                               Assistant Chief
Assistant Chief                      Education                                     Education
Inspector of                    Officer, Planning                                 Officer,
Schools                         Manager, PIU                                 Administration
Planning                      ~~~~~Primary, Teacher                   Accounts,Pesnl
I nspectorate                OfPlaning                              Training, Secondary,                   Auditing andPesnl
Ins Ex iate                       Onlfing                                     Correspondence and                   Internal Services                       Office
|   and Examinations    |      |   (including PIU)       |                   |  Technica Educatron  |           |    InternalTechnical Education
World Bank - 19406
rt



MALAWI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year         1981              1982                1983               1984               1985
1   2   3   41    2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3    4    1   2   3   4
SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Design Proposals/IDA Review
Construction Program            ... ....    .       _   _   _                             -   - _        - _    _       
Furniture and Equipment                              .  - .
CHANCELLOR COLLEGE
Sketch Plans/IDA Review
Working Drawings
Construction Program                                                        .......                   
Furniture and Equipment                                          -         -
Prepare Lists              Base Cost Date February 1981                        C pt   D
Completion Date June 30, 19l 85
...........- Tender/Award
Construction                                                                IDA Credit Closing Date December 31, 1985
___   Delivery
_   *- --   Guarantee
World Bank - 22030
Soufre: Bank Staff
a 
:SrI



-40-                      ANNEX 2
MALAWI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower in Malawi:
1. Malawi Government, "Economic Report 1980.1"
2. ODM, "Malawi Manpower Review 1980," February 1980.
3. University of Malawi, "Draft Estimates for 1980/81, and Forward
Estimates for 1981/82.1"
4. Malawi Government, "Approved Estimates of Expenditures on
Development Account for 1977/78 and 1980/81."
5. Malawi Government, Ministry of Education, "Educational
Statistics 1972/73 - 1978/79," August 1979.
6. Anthony I. Loveday, "The University Libraries and their
Services," May 1979.
B. Reports R&Iated to the Project:
1. Malawi Government, "Project Submission," December 1979.
C. Working Papers and Tables:
1. Educational and Architectural Working Papers.
2. N. Shields, "An Analysis of Malawi's 1979 Manpower S%irvey,"
December 1980.
3. C. Fuller, "A proposed Institute of Public Administration,"
June 1980.
Date: December 9, 1980.



I B R D 15278R
-.                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER low
ToDARESSALAA   \                                                                                  9
rX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A..BA                                                 '1-
tXoo                       *}e               A                               100 
ONl  r        GTOTS< 
(~~~~~~~~~i <v      '-.SANA+
PLAT A  V   GSTWA                                             WA!R.AN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
i/e~~' /       V t0 Tlf ,,,fRA
z      r   4     R umph        u       -                        -q   4
IFF6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
. Z 1,T4                  K$AT XAY         -    -  *   . J          %                    - -
120                                                                                                                     120/
. AIAf    WI7
0
. ~       ~~~~~~ //                                           ii-  C bt  I ,  
PARKD'af  SNAtolcto,eX
.      csungu  <         \     \     l 
ii    C       IV/   T   2, R                 V iIa CobraJN                 -
Chipb4-R 1O                                          < '   
MCIIiOI           ~~Dowo                V
,140               \io                                      C  9 / ;SHiPOKA SE0 doo\ck   <
.4-4C oo                                                                  MI/LANSF-
*.         t A0 0L   . R1 3ngoche    \                         tX       TO NACAL1
\8heu%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WA 0.k' Staf exc/asbe  !     o,
19t  n                                  of tN
M A L A W  I                                    Chk                  MBank and toi'ADL E              n
FOURTH  EDUCATION  PROJECT                           \. LENI,',,j                                                        1a n
University College                             1tjA.0K   A> 6            % > '
Se56'd ory SchoolsX
Existing Railways                                   \ .Ngo><:  
Rivers                            N                                  roninom
....... Regional Boundaries             N                                                      Thlb -.V. ,l
- International Boundaries                                                                    ~.^ivfdmaagtL@npu'iv*
\\~~~~~~~~~d -'PY -h. itdJ=e -/Jtf G/
0     20      40,     so      80    100                                                     --pl.- ...t  h ffhb-di-
MIL,E5              3j4o             To B E[R }                        316.



