Report No. PID8094
Project Name                     Argentina-Health Insurance for the Poor
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Health, Nutrition & Population
Project ID                       ARPE63388
Borrower                         Government of Argentina
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Social Action
Av. 9 de Julio
Phone: 5-41-345-3612/3641
Fax: same as telephone
Date this PID Prepared           August 18, 1999
Appraisal Date                   July 19-23, 1999
Project Board Date               September 30, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background:
Health outcomes and public satisfaction with the quality of care fall short of
what could be expected in a country with the income and health spending levels
of Argentina. The problem can be traced to: (a) inequitable health coverage;
(b) an inefficient service provision system; (c) the segmented nature of
health insurance financing; and (d) insufficient emphasis on public health and
primary care.
- Inequitable health coverage. The system is characterized by the existence
of a large (36.5 percent of total population, i.e., around 13 million persons)
and overwhelmingly poor uninsured population. At present, some 8 million are
covered by the union-run, mandatory health insurance system (Obras Sociales
Nacionales), another 6 million under provincial health insurance for public
sector employees (Obras Sociales Provinciales), 4 million are covered by the
National Social Services Institute for Retirees and Pensioners, and 2.2
million have private health insurance coverage. Health care for the uninsured
population is financed mostly through provincial budget allocations to public
facilities which then provide health care for free at the point of entry. The
poor are captive to the public hospitals and cannot hope to obtain better
health care from alternative providers unless they pay for these services out-
of-pocket.
As a first step towards correcting these shortcomings, the Government is
attempting to extend formal and explicit health coverage to the poor, thereby
establishing the legal and institutional basis: (a) for providing public
hospitals with an incentive to provide appropriate care to the poor; and (b)
for offering the recipients a choice of insurance carriers and of providers.
The creation of health insurance for the poor initiates a process of switching
to a more efficient, equitable, and transparent subsidization scheme. In
effect, since these 'demand' subsidies would be de-linked from providers, they
can more effectively be targeted to the poor, and they can be used as an
instrument to motivate providers to be more efficient.
- Inefficient service delivery in the public sector. Resources are allocated
to public providers on a historical basis. Since they receive allocations
that bear only a distant relation to the quality and quantity of services they



provide, public hospitals neither have an incentive to provide appropriate
care, nor to increase the efficiency of service provision. To increase the
efficiency of heath care delivery in the public sector, the Government
launched a pilot program through the Provincial Health Sector Development Loan
(Ln. 3931-AR) which aimed at introducing management autonomy in public
hospitals while strengthening their management systems, increasing the quality
of hospital assets in selected areas, and developing the capacity of public
hospitals to bill for services provided to insured patients. Similar reforms
are also contemplated in the policy conditionality matrix of the Second
Provincial Reform Loan (Ln. 3877-AR) that is currently being implemented in
four provinces (San Juan, Tucuman, RUo Negro and Salta). Significant
administrative and financial autonomy was granted to some public hospitals,
allowing them to collect fees from insured patients, and to use part of the
revenues thus collected (80 percent in Salta and RUo Negro) to finance
additional salary for staff, as well as some investments and maintenance
costs. It is expected that the public hospital reform would be further
expanded through follow-on operations.
- Segmented health insurance financing. Until the reforms that started in
1995, the insured population was captive to national union-run health
insurance funds (Obras Sociales Nacionales) or provincial funds (Obras
Sociales Provinciales) which were associated with place of employment and
offered widely different health care coverage. Since Obras had captive
beneficiaries who could not select another health insurer, they had little or
no incentive to improve the quality and quantity of services, operate more
efficiently, or control costs. To address these inefficiencies, the GoA
launched the first phase of a health insurance reform program with support
from an adjustment operation and a complementary technical assistance loan
from the Bank in 1996 (Loans 4002/4003/4004-AR). The health insurance reform
helped to introduce competition among national social insurance funds, to
improve their internal efficiency, to develop risk adjustment mechanisms among
social insurance funds, and to set up a central regulatory body as well as
consumer protection and prudential norms for both social and private health
insurance. The major outcomes of these reforms have been to increase choice
for the insured population, to mandate a standard package of benefits (PMO),
to compensate Obras for income disparities among them, and to improve the
financial sustainability of the national health insurance funds. Follow-up
operations would support the second phase of the health insurance reform
program, including deepening the reform at the national level, and developing
reform mechanisms for provincial health insurance funds (Obras Sociales
Provinciales).
- Insufficient emphasis on public health and primary care. Health outcomes
in Argentina are lower than could be expected at its income level or its
spending in health. Part of the problem is that of allocative inefficiency:
the public sector places insufficient emphasis on those health services that
have high payoffs (typically, preventive and primary health care) and those
services that are underprovided by the private sector (public goods and goods
with externalities). Four Bank loans (the Maternal and Child Health and
Nutrition I and II Projects, Ln. 3643-AR and Ln. 4164-AR, the Public Health
Surveillance and Disease Control Project, AR-PE 55482, and the AIDS and STD
Control Project, Ln. 4168-AR) are currently assisting the Government of
Argentina to strengthen the public role in the health sector.
2. Project Objectives
-2-



The objective of the proposed LIL is to pilot the development of health
insurance for the poor in selected provinces of Argentina. The LIL will
assist the Government of Argentina (GoA) in developing the legal,
institutional and financial framework to establish the proposed health
insurance scheme which could eventually be replicated throughout the country.
The introduction of such a policy initiative involves significant risks and
has major long term structural and political reform implications. It involves
introducing radical changes in the financing of public health care providers,
gradually replacing budgetary allocations with a mix of payment per capita,
per group of services and fee-for-service. It also involves establishing
financially sustainable health insurance that would improve the targeting of
public subsidies to the most needy. Finally, it would mean gradually
empowering the poor with similar basic rights, with regard to health care, as
those of the currently insured population, and ultimately seeks to improve
their health coverage. Several provinces in Argentina have already initiated
activities to introduce health insurance for the poor as part of larger reform
programs to improve health services, and many others have expressed their
willingness to do so. In order to move this process of change along, the
proposed LIL will advance implementation in a select number of provinces.
3. Project Description
The project will have three parts: Part A: Enrollment Database would include
the following activities: (i) identifying eligibility criteria based on
different poverty measures; (ii) designing a questionnaire and implementing
on-site surveys; (iii) establishing the enrollment database of the uninsured
poor and implementing the mechanisms for its regular updating; (iv) designing
and distributing identification cards to the beneficiaries; and (v) designing
and implementing communications campaigns targeted to the beneficiary
population and to the provider networks. Part B: Health Insurance for the
Poor would include the following activities: (i) establishing the legal
framework for the proposed health insurance; (ii) identifying a fiscally
affordable minimum health benefits package for the beneficiary population as
well as alternative health plans for the uninsured, non-poor households; (iii)
selecting the network of providers in the public and private sectors; (iv)
designing payment systems to providers, including at the primary health care
level, that would include appropriate incentives; and (v) establishing, within
the selected Agency, the capacity to manage the proposed health insurance.
Part C: Preparation, Monitoring, Evaluation and Administration would support
diagnostic and preparation activities in provinces other than the two pilot
ones (RUo Negro and Salta). The project would also support monitoring and
evaluation activities that would allow evaluation of the impact of the project
and capitalize upon the learning opportunities that this project provides.
4.   Project Financing
Bank financing would be for US$4.90 million.
5. Project Implementation
The executing agency will be the Ministry of Health and Social Action.
6. Project Sustainability
Sustainability is not addressed in Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs). The
- 3-



project is, however, expected to be fiscally neutral (or close to), at least
in the early part of the implementation period, because: (a) the proposed
health insurance for the poor will be funded out of existing provincial budget
allocations (principally global allocations provided to public hospitals and
health centers); (b) the funding available for the newly insured poor is
expected to increase due to a concomitant decrease in the cross-subsidies from
the public to the insurance sector; and (c) the project should generate
increases in the efficiency of the provincial delivery systems through the
introduction of new payment mechanisms and other incentives. However, it is
also expected that the change in incentive structure for consumers (access to
a clear package of benefits and ability to claim their right to certain
services) and providers (particularly fee-for-service reimbursement mechanisms
for hospitals) will exert an upward pressure on the production of health
services and on provincial public health spending. The spending pattern of
the health insurance agencies for the poor will be closely monitored out and
adjusted according to the provincial fiscal situation.
8.  Poverty Category             N/A
9. Environmental Aspects
There are no environmental issues. The proposed operation will support the
implementation of a health insurance reform program which will not pose any
environmental risks or damage. The operation would provide technical and
financial assistance to implement policy and institutional changes in the
health insurance market. None of these activities would have direct
implications for health care delivery facilities, nor potential to generate
hazardous waste.
10. Program Objective Categories:
The primary category is Other Population, Health and Nutrition.
Contact Points
Dr. Lelio Marmora                                Marie-Odile Waty, Task Manager
Coordinador General                              The World Bank - LCSHD
Programa de Reconversi6n del Sistema              1850 I Street NW, I 7-001
de Seguro de Salud (PRESSS)                      Washington, D.C. 20433
Lima 355/369, Piso 10 ("B" y "C")                 Phone: 202-473-4085
Buenos Aires, Argentina 1073                      Fax:  202-522-3135
Phone: 54-114-381-1979
Fax:    54-114-381-1979
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
-4-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 3, 1999.
- 5 -



