Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19508
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.9 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR
A HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE POOR PROJECT
November 30, 1999
Human and Social Development
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Region of Latin America and the Caribbean



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 1999)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (AR$)
AR$1.00 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = AR$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
ABBREVIATIONS A"N ACRONYMS
ANSeS            Administraci6n Nacional de Seguridad Sociall National Social Security
Administration
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
GoA              Government of Argentina
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IPS              Instituto Provincial de Saludl Provincial Obra Social of Salta
INSSJP           Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y Pensionadosl
National Social Service Institute for Retirees and Pensioners
LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan
MoH              Ministry of Health
MSAS             Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social/Ministry of Health and Social Action
(National)
Obras Sociales    Social health insurance funds (linked to workers' place of
Nacionales        employment) at the national level
Obras Sociales    Social health insurance funds for public sector employees at
Proviciales      provincial level
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PMA              Programa Medico Jsisrencial/Standard Health Benefits Package for the
Poor (Provincial)
PMO              Programa Medico ObligatoriolStandard Health Benefits Package
(National)
PRESSAL          Provincial Health Sector Development Loan
PRESSS           Programa de Reconversi6n del Sistema de Seguro de Saludl
Restructuring Program of Health Insurance System
PRL              Provincial Reform Loan
PROMIN           Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project
SIEMPRO          Sistema de Informaci6n, Evaluaci6n y Monitoreo de Programas Socialesl
Information, Evaluation and Monitoring System for Social Programs
SISFAM           Sistema de Identificaci6ny Registro de Familias Beneficiarias de
Programas Socialesl Identification System and Registry of Social
Programs Beneficiary Households
SYNTIS           Sistema de Identificaci6n Nacional Tributario y Social! Social and Fiscal
National Identification System
Vice President:       David de Ferranti
Country Director:     Myrna Alexander
Sector Director:      Xavier Coll
Team Leader:          Marie-Odile Waty/ Girindre Beeharry



Argentina
Health Insurance for the Poor Learning and Innovation Loan
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key  performance  indicators .................................................................2
B Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................3
3. Project strategic choices and learning and development issues to be addressed ............5
4. Learning and innovation expectations . .................................................................8
C Project Description Summary
1. Project components ..................................................................9
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................9
3. M onitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements  .................................................................   10
D Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic .................................................................                                                                               11
2. Financial .................................................................                                                                               11
3. Technical .................................................................                                                                               11
4. Institutional .................................................................                                                                           11
5. Social ..................................................................11
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                                                               12
7. Participatory approach .................................................................                                                                 12
E Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .................................................................                                                                        12
2. Critical Risks .................................................................                                                                         12
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................................                                                         14
F Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................................................................                                                               14
2. Other .................................................................                                                                                  14
G  Readiness for Implementation .................................................................                                                                          14
H  Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................................                                                                          15



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex la.    Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Fiscal Impact Analysis
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.     Project Procurement Plan
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans -and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



Argentina
Health Insurance for the Poor
Project Appraisal Document
Region of Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Date: November 30, 1999                             Team Leader: Marie-Odile Waty/ Girindre Beeharry
Country Director: Myma Alexander                    Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: AR-PE 63388                             Sector: Health, Nutrition and Population
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  LI] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [] Credit       [] Grant      [ ] Guarantee     [I) Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credlits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.9
Proposed terms:       [] To be defined   [ ] Multicurrency    [X] Single currency
Determined at Negotiations             [ ] Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed           [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           5
Years to maturity:             15
Commitment fee:                0.75%
Service charge:               %
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1.0%
Financing plan:
Government
Federal                                              1.01                               1.01
Provincial                                           1.16              -                1.16
IBRD                                                      2.73             2.17             4.90
Total:                                                    4.90             2.17             7.07
Borrower: Argentine Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Health and Social Action
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual      1.00        2.40          1.00         0.50
Cumulativie    1.00         3.40          4.40        4.90
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: January 15, 2000       Expected closing date: December 31, 2002
Implementing agency: Ministry of Health and Social Action
Contact person: Dr. Roberto Peluso, Subsecretario de Regulaci6n y Fiscalizaci6n
Address: Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social, Av. 9 de Julio 1925, Piso 2 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Tel: 541-14-379-9015          Fax: 541-14-379-9152          E-mail:



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed LIL is to pilot the development of health insurance for the poor in selected
provinces of Argentina. The LIL will assist the Government of Argentina (GoA) in developing the legal,
institutional and financial framework to establish the proposed health insurance scheme which could
eventually be replicated throughout the country.
The introduction of such a policy initiative involves significant risks and has major long term structural
and political reform implications. It involves introducing radical changes in the financing of public health
care providers, gradually replacing budgetary allocations with a mix of payment per capita, per group of
services and fee-for-service. It also involves establishing financially sustainable health insurance that
would improve the targeting of public subsidies to the most needy. Finally, it would mean gradually
empowering the poor with similar basic rights, with regard to health care, as those of the currently insured
population, and ultimately seeks to improve their health coverage.
Several provinces in Argentina have already initiated activities to introduce health insurance for the poor
as part of larger reform programs to improve health services, and many others have expressed their
willingness to do so. In order to move this process of change along, the proposed LIL will advance
implementation in a select number of provinces. A LIL would be the preferred loan instrument because
of the high risk associated with this policy initiative, and the need to:
- learn from successes and failures before replicating the plans on a wide scale throughout the country.
This strategy of learning-by-doing is an essential initial step in developing such an initiative since it is a
new and difficult area of reform for the country.
- facilitate the preparation of the follow-.up operations that would introduce health insurance for the poor
in other provinces.
- build momentum and credibility for the structural reforms at stake so as to facilitate their political
acceptability.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance of the pilots would be assessed based on their relative success in establishing health
insurance for the poor as well as on the sustainability of the systems and approaches established. Key
performance indicators would include:
*  The percentage of poor with health insurance in each of the targeted provinces, and the change in the
absolute number of poor covered;
*  The differences in health coverage, access, and quality between the insured poor and the rest of the
insured population in the province;
*  The proportion of public spending for health care services for the poor managed by the health
insurance Agency;
*  The proportion of provincial health spending based on demand for and production of services;
*  The fiscal sustainability of the health insurance plans; and
*  The number of follow-up operations that build on the lessons learned from the proposed pilots.
The targets for each indicator will be established with each province before project implementation, and
will be included in the agreement signed between the Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS) and
each province.



Page 3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
CAS Progress Report No. R-98-266; IFC/R98-233     Date of latest CA.S Progress Discussion:
November 10, 1998
The Bank's assistance strategy focuses on supporting the Government's efforts to (a) enhance social
development, including poverty alleviation and human resource development; (b) improve the
performance and institutional capacity of governments, particularly at the subnational level, to deliver key
social, infrastructure and environmental services; and (c) consolidate successful structural reforms in
public finance, labor markets and the financial sector. Bank support in the health sector has followed this
three-pronged strategy, by focusing on key public health interventions and targeted programs,
strengthening institutional capacity at central, provincial and municipal levels, and introducing major
reforms in the public health delivery and financing systems, including social health insurance.
The last CAS update emphasized the need to help Argentina address its current economic and financial
crisis, while pursuing its reform agenda and strengthening the social sectors. In particular, the Bank is
supporting the development of innovative, small scale learning initiatives that would target social
programs to vulnerable groups and address the specific social problems that Argentina is encountering.
Building on complementary efforts to improve delivery of public health services, target services to
particularly vulnerable groups, such as poor women and children, and restructure a major part of the
existing health insurance funds for employees, the second generation of health sector interventions in
Argentina seeks to consolidate and extend the ongoing reforms with a particular emphasis on the issue of
equity of access to quality health care. The proposed LIL directly addresses this equity concern since the
ultimate objective of establishing health insurance for the poor is to improve their access to quality health
services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Total health care expenditures in Argentina are very high, at around seven to ten percent of GDP. Health
outcomes and public satisfaction with the quality of care do not match the level of investment, or what
could be expected from a country with the income and education level of Argentina. In addition, the
current system falls far short of the constitutional mandate for equitable health care. The problem can be
traced to: (a) inequitable health coverage; (b) an inefficient service provision system; (c) the segmented
nature of health insurance financing; and (d) insufficient emphasis on public health and primary care.
* Inequitable health coverage. The system is characterized by the existence of a large (36.5 percent of
total population, i.e., around 13 million persons) and overwhelmingly poor uninsured population. At
present some 8 million are covered by the union-run health insurance system (Obras Sociales
Nacionales), another 5 million under provincial health insurance for public sector employees (Obras
Sociales Provinciales), 4 million are covered by the National Social Services Institute for Retirees and
Pensioners, and 2.2 million have private health insurance coverage. Health care for the uninsured
population is financed mostly through provincial budget allocations to public facilities which then provide
health care for free at the point of entry. The open and free availability of service from public hospitals
can be seen as an implicit and informal insurance system, so that the 'uninsured' population can be said to
benefit from an implicit coverage. The implicit insurance system is, however, characterized by the facts
that: (a) the recipient cannot chose his/her insurance carrier; and (b) the choice of health care providers is
restricted to the public network. The poor are captive to the public hospitals and cannot hope to obtain
better health care from alternative providers unless they pay for these services out-of-pocket. The implicit
insurance system suffers from two additional contextual problems: (a) many public hospitals in Argentina
do not bill for services and/or collect fees from insured patients; this perpetuates cross-subsidization from
the public sector (provincial general revenues) to the insurance sector; and (b) those public hospitals



Page 4
which have started to recover costs may have a direct incentive to provide more and better care to the
insured than to uninsured patients. As l:he capacity of hospitals to collect fees increases, there is a risk
that a two-tier system of care will develop within the public hospital system, differentiating between the
insured and the uninsured poor.
As a first step towards tackling these issues, the Government is attempting to extend formal and explicit
health coverage to the poor, thereby establishing the legal and institutional basis: (a) for providing public
hospitals with an incentive to provide appropriate care to the poor; and (b) for offering the recipients a
choice of insurance carriers and of providers. The creation of health insurance for the poor initiates a
process of switching to a more efficient, equitable, and transparent subsidization scheme. In effect, since
these 'demand' subsidies would be de-linked from providers, they can more effectively be targeted to the
poor, and they can be used as an instrument to motivate providers to be more efficient.
Developing health insurance for the poor is therefore among the highest priorities of the new phase of
reforms in the health sector in Argentina, and several provinces have already initiated the process. These
efforts are, and will be, subject to the conditionality of a series of Bank adjustment loans, including the
Second (ongoing), Third and Fourth Provincial Reform Loans (PRL), and the proposed second Health
Insurance Reform Loan. The proposed LIL would explore and test ways in which the extension of
explicit health coverage to the poor can be achieved efficiently in conjunction with the fiscal and social
reforms supported by the PRL operations,
*  Inefficient service delivery in the public sector. Resources are allocated to public providers on a
historical basis. Since they receive allocations that bear only a distant relation to the quality and quantity
of services they provide, public hospitals neither have an incentive to provide appropriate care, nor to
increase the efficiency of service provision. To increase the efficiency of heath care delivery in the public
sector, the Government launched a pilot program through the Provincial Health Sector Development Loan
(Ln. 3931-AR) which aimed at introducing management autonomy in public hospitals while
strengthening their management systems, increasing the quality of hospital assets in selected areas, and
developing the capacity of public hospitals to bill for services provided to insured patients. Similar
reforms are also contemplated in the policy conditionality matrix of the Second Provincial Reform Loan
(Ln. 3 877-AR) that is currently being implemented in four provinces (San Juan, Tucuman, Rio Negro and
Salta). Significant administrative and financial autonomy was granted to some public hospitals, allowing
them to collect fees from insured patients, and to use part of the revenues thus collected (80 percent in
Salta and Rio Negro) to finance additional salary for staff, as well as some investments and maintenance
costs. It is expected that the public hospital reform would be further expanded through a follow-on
operation to Loan 3931-AR, as well as through the above-mentioned future provincial reform loans.
* Segmented health insurancefinancing. Until the reforms that started in 1995, the insured population
was captive to national union-run health insurance funds (Obras Sociales Nacionales) or provincial funds
(Obras Sociales Provinciales) which were associated with place of employment and offered widely
different health care coverage. Since Obras had captive beneficiaries who could not select another health
insurer, they had little or no incentive to improve the quality and quantity of services, operate more
efficiently, or control costs. To address these inefficiencies, the GoA launched the first phase of a health
insurance reform program with support from an adjustment operation and a complementary technical
assistance loan from the Bank in 1996 (Loans 4002/4003/4004-AR). The health insurance reform helped
to introduce competition among national social insurance funds, to improve their internal efficiency, to
develop risk adjustment mechanisms amDng social insurance funds, and to set up a central regulatory
body as well as consumer protection and prudential norms for both social and private health insurance.
The major outcomes of these reforms have been to increase choice for the insured population, to mandate
a standard package of benefits (PMO), to compensate Obras for income disparities among them, and to
improve the financial sustainability of the national health insurance funds.
A follow-up operation proposed for FY2001 would support the second phase of the health insurance
reform program. Its main objectives would be to deepen the reform at the national level, and to develop



Page 5
reform mechanisms for provincial health insurance funds (Obras Sociales Provinciales). The above-
mentioned provincial reform loans would also support the restructuring of the Obras Sociales
Provinciales.
Insufficient emphasis on public health and primary care. Given its income level and its spending in
health, Argentina could probably obtain better health outcomes. In order to improve these outcomes,
more emphasis should be put on those health services that have high payoffs (typically, preventive and
primary health care) and those services that are underprovided by the private sector (public goods and
goods with externalities). The Government of Argentina is currently strengthening the public role in the
health sector with the support of four Bank loans (the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition I and II
Projects, Ln. 3643-AR and Ln. 4164-AR, the Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project,
AR-PE 55482, and the AIDS and STD Control Project, Ln. 4168-AR).
3. Project strategic choices and learning and development issues to be addressed:
The LIL would help participating provinces develop: (a) the institutional and legal framework to provide
health insurance to the uninsured poor; and (b) new payment systems to public providers for the care
provided to the uninsured poor, gradually shifting from supply to demand subsidization. As a LIL, the
project is relatively open as to the strategies to be adopted to achieve each of these objectives; the project
is not designed to be prescriptive but to allow for experimentation and innovation. A number of strategic
choices, however, have already had to be made. The following describes the alternatives considered as
well as the learning and development issues that the proposed LIL will address.
(a)    Selection of pilot provinces. The LIL will support the full development of the proposed health
insurance in the pilot provinces of Rio Negro and Salta. These two provinces were selected because they
have already made a commitment to introduce health insurance for the poor and to transform public
hospitals into autonomous entities in accordance with the policy conditionalities of the Bank-supported
PRL II (Ln. 3877-AR). Both provinces have already established the basic legal framework to develop
these two strategies and have started to identify the uninsured poor population. The political commitment
of the two provinces to developing the proposed health insurance was renewed by the newly elected
governments of Salta and Rio Negro, whose technical teams participated in the preparation of the
proposed LIL. Funds will also be allocated to support diagnostic and preparatory activities in provinces
other than the two pilot provinces of Rio Negro and Salta.
Enough flexibility will be allowed to (i) allocate project funds between each of the pilot provinces (Rio
Negro and Salta) depending on their respective implementation performance; and (ii) select other
provinces as pilot provinces in case the province of Rio Negro or Salta does not comply with the project
developmnent objectives or fails to carry out the project activities with the due diligence and efficiency
required. In order to be selected, altemative pilot provinces would have to comply with the eligibility
criteria and procedures established in the Operational Manual which would include: (i) the establishment
of an adequate legal framework for the proposed health insurance; (ii) commitment that the selected
health insurance agency meets the financial and institutional prerequisites described in Annex 2,
paragraph 27; (iii) agreement that the technical and financial sustainability of the proposed health
insurance will be ensured; (iv) commitment to finance counterpart funds, as needed; and (v) participation
in the existing, or a future, provincial reform loan.
(b)    Choice of health care providers by the poor. The provincial authorities of Rio Negro and Salta
opted fo;r a phased approach in introducing the proposed health insurance. The first phase, which would
be supported by the proposed LIL, would involve changing the mode of payment of public hospitals so as
to give them incentives to provide better care to the poor. In this first phase, the poor would receive
services from the public sector network only. In a second phase, they would be able to choose their
providers outside the public network. The province of Rio Negro decided to open the network to private
providers within 2.5 to four years, whereas the province of Salta is contemplating a timeframe of four



Page 6
years. Allowing the enrolled poor to immediately select private providers might result in the financial
collapse of some or many public hospitals, as they would be suddenly deprived of their captive patients
and of the financial resources attached to them. Such a collapse would be very difficult to sustain
politically and might lead to the premature abandonment of all efforts to shift hospital payment
mechanisms from supply to demand subsidization. A phased approach would also give public hospitals a
fair chance of surviving in a competitive environment. In addition, public providers are the only ones
available in many, especially rural, areas. In those areas, improving the functioning of public facilities is
a better instrument to improve health care for the poor than widening the choice of health providers.
Private providers would, however, continue to be contracted by the health insurance agencies in order to
provide the high-complexity medical care and technology that are currently not available in the public
sector.
(c)    Choice of the health insurance carrier. Similarly, provincial authorities have opted for a gradual
approach in selecting the health insurance carrier that would manage the proposed health insurance
program for the poor. They rejected the more radical alternative of providing the enrolled poor with
vouchers allowing them to immediately select their own insurance carrier. Such an alternative was
considered politically unfeasible since most stakeholders, including potential beneficiaries, would have
viewed it as "privatizing public health care". In addition, the transfer of funding from provincial health
budgets to insurance carriers to pay for the care provided to the enrolled poor is likely to be determined
by the pace at which it will be possible to: transfer personnel budgets, and thus staffing decisions, from the
provincial governments to the autonormous public hospitals with the insurance carrier acting as the
payment intermediary and contracting and quality assurance agent. The LIL would help to test two
alternatives for the management of the proposed health insurance system. The province of Salta has
chosen to entrust its management to the existing provincial Obra Social - IPS - which is providing
coverage to around 330,000 public employees and their dependents. The Obra Social is well managed
and currently has no operating deficit and debts. On the other hand, in view of the current operating
deficit of its provincial Obra Social, the Province of Rio Negro has opted for the creation of a small
agency (staffed with 15-20 persons) that would exclusively manage the health insurance plan for the
enrolled poor.
(d)   Scope of the structural reforms.   The proposed health insurance system  would involve
introducing two fundamental changes that have profound structural, political and cultural implications:
the modification of payment mechanisms and incentives to public providers, and the separation of
financing from provision by gradually transferring government funding to a third-party payer. The scope
and extent of the changes that provincial. governments would be able to introduce in these two important
reform areas during the timeframe of the LIL would certainly be modest. The modification of the
payment mechanism for public hospitals is likely to be strongly resisted by the medical profession who
would fear the introduction of payment systems based on productivity. The scope of the transfer of
funding from the provincial Ministry of Health to the Agency that would manage the proposed health
insurance is likely to be constrained by the centralization and current rigidities in the management of
health personnel expenditures. The project would therefore set feasible and reachable targets within the
LIL's implementation period; these targets would be included in the agreements to be signed between the
project and pilot provinces.
(e)    Coverage of the minimum health benefits package (PMA4). Provincial authorities are committed
to providing to the enrolled poor the same services as those included in the national health benefits
package which became mandatory for all national insurance funds in 1995. However, in light of current
fiscal constraints and the limited supply of high-complexity care in the province, provincial authorities are
considering initially financing a reduced package and gradually extending it as financial resources permit.
This may also be prudent given that demand for health services by the poor may actually increase as the
system becomes more responsive to their demands. In view of the extremely limited resources of the
beneficiary population, the provincial authorities have also decided not to impose co-payments for the
health services provided in the PMA. The proposed LIL would help to identify a financially sustainable
health benefits package (PMA), and to evaluate the cost of several extended packages, including that of



Page 7
the national PMO. These studies would also involve identifying and costing the package of services that
both provincial Obras Sociales are providing to their beneficiaries, and assessing the current gap with the
national PMO. With regard to drugs, each province will identify payment systems for outpatient drugs,
including a list of those that would be fully subsidized under the new system.
(f)    Choice ofpayment mechanisms to public providers. The proposed LIL will help identify the best
mix of payment mechanisms based on their respective cost and their incentives for demand and supply.
Provincial authorities have expressed their initial preference for the following payment systems: (i)
payment per capita for primary health care services; and (ii) fee-for-service for public hospitals, in order
to provide them with the incentive to monitor their production and cost structure, as well as to bill for
services. The latter payment system is currently being used by public hospitals to bill public and private
insurance funds for services provided to their beneficiaries. Other payment mechanisms, such as payment
per group of services (module), would gradually be introduced as knowledge of hospital costs and
production improves.
(g)    Eligibility criteria for subsidized health insurance. Provincial governments in Argentina are
mandatecl by the Constitution to provide health care coverage to any citizen, regardless of his/her ability
to pay. Recent laws in the provinces of Salta and Rio Negro have established the principle of extending
health insurance coverage to the population currently uninsured, i.e., regardless of their income level.
Provincial authorities are, however, committed to subsidizing health insurance for the poor only. The
proposed LIL would help provincial governments to identify: (i) the population currently not insured; (ii)
the poverty criteria, consistent with the system adopted by the National Government to target social
programs (SISFAM) which would be used to determine eligibility for subsidized health insurance; and
(iii) the uninsured, poor population that would be eligible for the proposed health insurance. For the
uninsured, non-poor population, provincial authorities are contemplating charging fees for health services
in all public facilities. This particular group will therefore have the opition of subscribing to a voluntary
health plan (with either the provincial Obra Social, or the new health insurance Agency, or any other
insurance carrier), or pay for health services out-of-pocket. The LIL will help provincial authorities to
design health plans, enrollment mechanisms and the financing plans (including premiums, co-payments
and, eventually, provincial subsidization) for this population.
(h)    Establishment and maintenance of an enrollment database. The establishment and maintenance
of a database that would accurately contain key data on the target population (the uninsured poor) would
be an essential building block for the proposed health insurance and a critical factor for success.
Available data indicates that 60 percent of the uninsured in Rio Negro and 80 percent of the uninsured in
Salta are poor. The provinces could build the database in one of two ways: either to strive for as large an
enrollment as possible initially, then eliminate those who do not qualify, or to build up the enrollment
over time by registering beneficiaries as they come into contact with the public health system and
verifying their eligibility. Both pilot provinces have chosen the first approach, but other participating
provinces may find that the second one is more cost effective. Moreover, once the enrollment database is
created, it will have to be maintained and regularly updated, allowing new beneficiaries to enroll (i.e.,
households meeting the poverty criteria) and ending eligibility for enrollees who no longer meet the
criteria. The LIL will support provincial efforts to develop and maintain enrollment databases and, upon
project completion, help sift through the different provincial experiences to identify the best strategies. A
link would also be established with the new federal data exchange system, the Social and Fiscal National
Identification System (SINTYS), supported by the Bank (Ln. 4459-AR), which allows federal and
provincial authorities more timely access to accurate records on beneficiaries of different national and
provincial programs and can provide a way to cross-check eligibility.
(i)    Giving voice to the consumer. The initial restriction regarding the choice of both insurance
carriers and providers leaves open the question of how to guarantee a continuous increase in the quality of
services provided to the beneficiaries. A strategic choice was made to establish a system of constant
monitoring of beneficiary reaction, through quarterly focus groups and exit polls, as well as annual



Page 8
beneficiary assessments. This regular feedback will constitute an important management tool both to
maintain pressure on the system to effect change, and to build political support from the beneficiary
community. Such support could be a crucial risk-mitigating element to counter the likely opposition from
other interest groups.
4. Learning and innovation expectationls:
[X] Economic [X] Financial [X] Technical [X] Institutional
[X] Social [ ] Environmental [X] Participation [ ] Other
The project innovates in at least three areas: (i) it extends formal health insurance coverage to the poor;
(ii) it helps the provincial ministries of health, through the health insurance Agencies, to specialize in the
purchasing function and enter into contractual agreements with providers; and (iii) it experiments,
although in a limited way, with gatekeeping for basic maternal and child health.
The project provides numerous learning opportunities, among which: (a) how to maintain a database of
the beneficiaries of the insurance prograni and keep accurate records of entry and exit; (b) how to extend
coverage to the uninsured non-poor population; (c) how to design a sustainable package of services; (d)
how to manage demand for health services and control costs; (e) how to increase quality of care in an
environment where customers initially have a choice neither of insurers nor of providers; (f) whether it
makes better sense to create a health insurance agency or to contract existing health insurers
(administrative costs); (g) how to prepare public providers for competition from private providers; (h)
how best to implement the transition to demand-based allocation of resources to public providers; (i) how
Obras Sociales react to public hospital billing; (j) how to create political support for the program to
surmount opposition to the reform; and (k) how best to mitigate the risks associated with the project.
The analysis will be based on a comparison of the achievements of provinces in designing and
implementing these strategies and their relative success in overcoming social, political and financial
constraints. A comparison will also be made with provinces that are developing similar strategies without
project support.



Page 9
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The proposed project would include the following three parts:
Part A: Enrollment Database
This part would include the following activities: (i) identifying eligibility criteria based on different
poverty measures; (ii) designing a questionnaire and implementing on-site surveys; (iii) establishing the
enrollment database of the uninsured poor and implementing the mechanisms for its regular updating; (iv)
designing and distributing identification cards to the beneficiaries; and (v) designing and implementing
communications campaigns targeted to the beneficiary population and to the provider networks.
Part B: Health Insurance for the Poor
This part would include the following activities: (i) establishing the legal framework for the proposed
health insurance; (ii) identifying a fiscally affordable minimum health benefits package for the
beneficiary population as well as alternative health plans for the uninsured, non-poor households; (iii)
selecting the network of providers in the public and private sectors; (iv) designing payment systems to
providers, including at the primary health care level, that would include appropriate incentives; and (v)
establishing, within the selected Agency, the capacity to manage the proposed health insurance.
Part C: Preparation, Monitoring, Evaluation and Administration
The project would support diagnostic and preparation activities in proviinces other than the two pilot ones
(RIo Negro and Salta). The project would also support monitoring and evaluation activities that would
allow evaluation of the impact of the project and capitalize upon the learning opportunities that this
project would provide. The component is therefore designed to monitor and evaluate indicators specified
in Annex l a (Project Design Summary) at inception, during implementation, and upon project
completion. The administration of the project by the Coordination Unit is also included in this
component since the unit would be primarily responsible for monitoring and evaluation.
1. Enrollment database            HY               2.2       31.0%     1.82        37.0%/
2. Health Insurance               HY                2.89     41.1%     1.44        29.0%
3. Preparation, Monitoring,       HY                1.93     27.2%     1.59        33.0%
Evaluation and Administration
Total Project Costs  7.02       99.3%     4.85        99.0%
Front-end fee   0.049       0.7%     0.049        1.0%
Total Financing Required   7.07       100%      4.90        100%
HlY = Other Population, Health and Nutrition
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS) at the federal level will be responsible for the overall
coordination of the proposed project. The provincial Health Council of Rio Negro and the Ministry of
Health of Salta would be responsible for implementing the project in their respective provinces. The
provinces will work in close collaboration with the selected health insurance Agency. The province of
Rio Negro has already established, within the Provincial Health Council, a Directorate for Provincial
Health Insurance which will later become the autonomous health insurance Agency. The province of



Page 10
Salta is contemplating the creation of a General Coordination Unit within the Provincial Ministry of
Health which would be responsible for overseeing the design and implementation of the proposed health
insurance, and maintaining the enrollment database. The provincial Obra Social would be in charge of
the day-to-day administrative and financial management of the proposed health insurance.
The National Director of the project would be the Undersecretary for Regulation and Control in the
MSAS, and the project would be managed by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which would report to
the Undersecretary. The PCU will be responsible for (i) the overall management, coordination and
monitoring and evaluation of the project; (ii) assisting the provinces in implementing the project; (iii)
facilitating the dialogue between provinces in order to learn from each other's experiences; and (iv)
collaborating with on-going Bank projects (especially the Provincial Reform Loan II, the Provincial
Health Sector Development Project, and the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project) in order to
ensure consistency of objectives and facilitate the implementation of the proposed activities.
The PCU will be headed by a full-time Project Coordinator and staffed with the following key personnel:
(i) an Administrative Manager who shall be responsible for procurement and financial management under
the project; (ii) (a) Financial Health Insurance Expert, (b) a Medical Health Insurance Expert, (c) a Legal
Advisor, one of whom shall be appointed as Technical Manager; and (iii) such other personnel with
functions, responsibilities, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, as may be required for
the proper implementation of the project. As part of its managerial responsibilities, the PCU will be
responsible for handling all procurement and administrative matters in close collaboration with the central
unit that has been established within the MSAS in order to carry out administrative tasks for a certain
number of Bank-financed projects (See Annex 6).
An agreement will be signed between the National Project Director and each pilot province ("Provincial
Technical Assistance Agreement"), which will detail the objectives, content, timetable, and cost of the
activities to be implemented, as well as targets for the performance and impact indicators. The agreement
will also describe the requirements that the province must meet in order to ensure the adequate design,
implementation and execution of the proposed health insurance. The Agreement will include the terms
and procedures for the transfer of funds from each Pilot Province to the corresponding Health Insurance
Agency. It also will include a clause for potential suspension of the project in case the province does not
comply with the requirements. The standard terms of the agreement are detailed in the Operational
Manual. The signing of this agreement will be a condition of disbursement for consultant services and
training in each pilot province.
As a purchaser of care, the health insurance Agency will, in turn, sign a management contract with each
provider of the network. The project will provide technical assistance to define the content of the
management contract to be signed with public and private providers at the primary, secondary and tertiary
level.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The monitoring and evaluation component is designed to obtain feedback from beneficiaries, providers,
the health insurance Agencies, and the provincial health authorities so as to gather and sort the lessons
learned from the pilot experiences and put them to practical use in other provinces. The details are
provided in Annex l b.



Page 1 1
D: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments for those analyses applicable to LIL are in the
project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: Not applicable
[ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: Not applicable
[X] Other (specify): Fiscal impact analysis
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)        NPV= Not applicable             FRR= Not applicable
A fiscal analysis will be undertaken during project implementation to evaluate the short and medium term
fiscal impact of the proposed health insurance on provincial budgets. An initial step will involve
estimating the past and current share of the provincial budget that is targeted to financing health care
services for the poor, and monitoring this indicator during and after the project's implementation period.
Different fiscal impact scenarios, based on different experiences regarding the minimum benefits package
to be provided, changes in demand anticipated as a result of the system, and the options for provider
payment mechanisms, will be explored. A similar exercise will be carried out for those provinces that
decide to partially subsidize health insurance for the uninsured, non-poor population. A simultaneous
monitoring of the fiscal situation, of the flow of payments and the status of reimbursements due to the
health providers, and of the interface between the provincial budget and the payment mechanisms will be
carried out in the pilot provinces.
Effects on the demand for health services will be monitored for both the currently insured population and
the targeted poor population (whose utilization rates are likely to increase because of easier access and
more information). Both the volume and the type of services will be monitored to gauge the change in
provision of cost-effective services.
The project will also track the cost of administering the system under various management options for
the proposed health insurance program and assess the impact on health service delivery costs, in order to
determine the cost-effectiveness of the system.
3. Technical:
The project will help identify the best options for a number of instrumental issues for the proposed health
insurance, including: (a) how to establish a health insurance enrollment (latabase when a large part of the
beneficiaries work in the informal sector; (b) how to maintain the database and keep accurate records of
entry and exit; (c) how to extend coverage to the uninsured non-poor population and prevent them from
becoming free-riders; (d) how to control costs and manage demand as appropriate; (e) how to increase
quality in a non-competitive environment; (f) what is the optimal management structure for the health
insurance Agency; (g) how to prepare public providers for competition from private providers; and (h)
how to facilitate the transition to demand-based allocation of resources to public providers.
4. Institutional:
The project will assist institutions in redefining their functions and help them equip themselves for their
new roles. More specifically, the project will (a) assist the creation, where needed, of a new health
insurance Agency; (b) assist Obras Sociales Provinciales which have been selected as health insurance
carriers to take on the additional responsibility of purchasing health care for the poor; and (c) help
provincial Ministries of Health to regulate and supervise insurance carriers and providers. The project
will also (a) test the appropriateness of different institutional entities for the proposed health insurance,
and (b) study the responsiveness of public hospitals to changes in their payment method.



Page 12
5. Social:
It is expected that the proposed system will have a positive social impact on the poor as it should enhance
their sense of being adequately served by the health care system. The project will finance assessments to
evaluate the level of beneficiary satisfaction with the proposed health insurance plans and with the
provision of care before, during and upon project completion by using periodic surveys, exit polls and
focus groups to gain feedback. These assessments will help monitor the health care gap with the currently
insured population and will attempt to measure any attitudinal behavioral shifts on the part of the target
population in terms of their willingness; to seek medical attention, their understanding of the services
being offered and their ability to interact with the system on complaints and issues of quality. The results
of these assessments will be published to maintain the momentum for improvement.
6. Environmental assessment:         Environmental Category  [ ] A    [ ] B   [X] C
There are no environmental issues. The proposed operation will support the implementation of a health
insurance reform program which will not pose any environmental risks or damage. The operation would
provide technical and financial assistance to implement policy and institutional changes in the health
insurance market. None of these activities would have direct implications for health care delivery
facilities, nor potential to generate hazardous waste.
7. Participatory approach:
Provincial health authorities in the pillot provinces would establish formal consultations with key
stakeholders during project implementation: beneficiary associations, medical professional associations,
public employees associations, private providers associations, the Ministry of Economy, and national and
provincial Obras Sociales and private health insurance.
E: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
As shown in the table below, the design and implementation of the reform bear substantial risks which
justify the overall risk rating of "High" for the project.
~~~~~~~~~~ _
FW     O' "'4
Financial constraints on provincial health       H      - Regularly publish reports on the services
financing limit the scope and content of the health     available to and health spending on the poor and
insurance plan for the poor, to the extent that         the non-poor with a view to create a political
access to health services is even more limited          commitment to reduce the gap.
than under the current subsidization system.            - Policy dialogue through the PRLs.
- Define eligibility criteria for access to high-
complexity health care that is outside the basic
package of services.
Demand changes induced by the improved           M      -Close monitoring of the effect of introducing
availability and quality of services for the poor       the health insurance program on demand for
result in an increase in overall costs to the            services and cost, and its fiscal sustainability in
provinces                                               the pilot provinces.



Page 13
Fiscal transfers from the provincial Treasury to  H   - Ensure through policy dialogue, in particular
the health insurance Agency are not regular and       through the PRLs, that the health insurance
consistent with plans                                 Agency has regular budget transfers (no bailing
out by provincial government) so that it
operates within the fiscal boundaries.
PMA is not financially sustainable             S      - Take corrective measures to ensure
sustainability of the PMA by limiting its scope
and managing demand.
- Regular monitoring of volume and cost of
services provided, and financing available from
general and hospital revenues.
Management Information Systems in public       H      - Assist hospitals in pilot provinces to obtain the
hospitals are inadequate to meet the demands of a     adequate management information systems and
more complex billing and payment system              training through PRESSAL technical assistance.
Public Hospitals do not file claims for        M      - Assist the transition to demand subsidization.
reimbursement                                         If revenues are primarily production-based,
public hospitals will have an incentive to file
claims for reimbursements.
- Assist public hospitals to file claims and
collect fees from insurance funds.
Providers are not paid promptly for services   S      - Equip the health insurance Agency with
supplied to the beneficiary population                adequate management tools.
- Monitor financial health of Agency and ensure
prompt provider payment.
Medical associations block the change in payment    H  - Encourage involvement of such associations at
mechanisms                                            all stages of project development and
implementation.
- Develop payment mechanisms that ensure that
part of hospital revenues generated from service
production are used for supplementary
personnel compensation.
Pressure from public providers to limit        S      - Help public hospitals equip themselves for
participation of private providers                    competition with the private sector by
strengthening efficiency and productivity.
From Components to Outputs                    .
Financial and technical constraints may hamper  H     - Develop adequate intersectoral mechanisms to
the regular updating of the beneficiary database      monitor eligibility of current and potential
beneficiaries.
- Ensure t]hrough policy dialogue, in particular
through the PRLs, and regular monitoring that
the provinces do not bail out the insurance
agency if it runs over budget; strict financial
constraints will provide a strong incentive to the
insurance agency to know and keep track of its
beneficiary population.



Page 14
Non-insured non-poor have an incentive to        S     - On-site surveys and application of eligibility
underreport income so as to free-ride on the           criteria. Assist in the creation of an affordable
insurance scheme and to default on out-of-pocket       health plan for this population.
payments.
Resistance to a PMA for the poor that is different  S  - Propose transition plan to the National PMO.
from the National PMO
O' ireraIIRisk R atin g  H$Ss                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ii_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __3
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The de facto transfer of control of health personnel budgets from the provincial budgets to autonomous
health care providers is likely to be resisted. It is also expected that the medical professionals will resist
the change in the payment mechanisms antid accountability for results for public health facilities.
F: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
>  The key staff of the PCU: (i) the Project Coordinator; (ii) the Administrative Manager, (iii) the Legal
Advisor, (iv) the Medical Health Insurance Expert, and (v) the Financial Health Insurance Expert are
appointed and are in place.
>  The Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted by the MSAS.
>  All actions have been taken by the Borrower to permit that the procurement of goods and services
required for the project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, be carried out in
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement.
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
> Disbursements for consultant services and training for each of the pilot provinces is conditioned to the
signing of the Provincial Technical Assistance Agreement with each of the pilot provinces, in
accordance with terms acceptable to the Bank.
> Semi-annual progress reports on the execution of the project will be provided to the Bank by May 31
and November 30 of each year of project execution.
> A report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed in relation to the
above-mentioned progress reports will be furnished to the Bank no later than June 30, 2001. This report
will be reviewed with the Bank by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall request.
> The LACI system will be in place no later than six months after the effectiveness date.
G: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. The procurement documents for thie first six month's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding documents that will be
used for ongoing procurement during the project has been established.
[X] 2. The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Page 15
H: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[X] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leaders: Marie-OdWaty/ Girindre Beeharry
Secto   ector: Xavier Coll
Conr  lrco:  yn   lxne






Annex la: Project Design Summary
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
U --
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:           Sector / Country Reports:  (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
Promote equity in health by    .  Increased utilization rates   *  Health Insurance  .  Employment
improving access to and     of health services by the poor   Agency and Project data    opportunities and
quality of health services for   .  Increased beneficiary  *  Beneficiary satisfaction  access to education
the non-insured poor        satisfaction with the quality of  surveys at the beginning  for the poor are
services                     and end of the project        maintained or
*  Increased public spending   *  Provincial MoH data      increased
for the poor through the     complemented by hospital
reduction in cross-subsidies    surveys at the beginning
from the poor to the non-poor   and end of the project
Project Development Objective:   Outcome / Impact Indicators:  Project Reports:     (from Objective to Goal)
(1) Provide the non-insured    .  Absolute number and    *  Provincial MoH and      *  Public hospitals
poor with increasing        percentage of poor with      Project data                have enough
opportunities for access to the  health insurance in each                            incentives and
same benefits as the insured    province                      .        .             sufficient management
population through the      .  Differences in health     *  Differences In the       sufficien management
establishment of a financially   coverage, access, and quality    minimum health benefits    regarding personnel, to
sustainable health insurance    between the insured poor and   package, in the choice of  be able to provide
scheme and by linking       the rest of the insured      providers, in length ofmore and better care to
payments to providers of    population                   waiting ists, etc.
health care to the poor to their *  Fiscal sustainability of  .  Provincial MoH and  the poor.
production.                 health insurance             Project data               *  Public hospitals
*  Proportion of public      .  Provincial MoH and       have the capacity to
spending for health care     Project data               charge and collect fees
transferred to the health                               from insured patients
insurance Agency for the poor
.  Percentage of provincial    *  Provincial MoH and
health spending based on     Project data
production of services
.  Improved efficiency and    *  Hospital surveys at the
productivity indicators for  beginning and end of the
hospital services            project
*  Number of follow-up       .  Project documents
operations that build on the
lessons leamed from the
proposed LIL



Output from each component:    Output Indicators:       Project Reports:           (from Outputs to
Objective)
(1) Enrollment database    .  Percentage of the poor    *  Health Insurance        *  Financial
(padr6n) for the non-insured    enrolled in the database in  Agency and Project data  constraints on
poor established and regularly  each pilot province     *  Health Insurance         provincial health
maintained                 .  The database is regularly    Agency and Project data  financing do not limit
updated                                                the scope and content
of the health insurance
(2) Sustainable Health     *  Legal instruments         *  Provincial MoH and       plan for the poor, to
Insurance Plan and efficient    establishing health insurance    Project data       the extent that access
health insurance Agency in    for the poor and capacity of                          to health services is
operation                   public hospitals to charge fees                         even more limited than
established                                            under the current
*  Respective roles of the  *  Provincial MoH and       subsidization system.
Provincial MoH and the      Project data
health insurance Agency                                *  Fiscal transfers
defined                                                from the provincial
*  Health benefits package,   *  Provincial MoH and     Treasury to the health
provider network and!        Project data              insurance Agency are
financing plan designed in a                           regular and consistent
financially sustainable way                            with plans
.  An independent and       a  Financial and economic
financially viable Agency has  indicators of the Agency  .  The PMA is
been established                                       financially
*  Provider payment systems  *  Provincial MoH and     sustainable
and unit prices compare     Project data
favorably with those obtained                          *  Management
by other insurance agencies                            Information Systems
*  Adequate hospital MIS    .  Provincial MoH and       in public hospitals are
Project data               appropriate
*  Number and quality of    *  Provincial MoH and
audits of providers carried out  Project data          .  Public Hospitals
by the health insurance                                actually file claims for
Agency                                                 reimbursement
*  Incentives to providers for  *  Health Insurance
efficient use of primaLry health   Agency and Project data  .  Providers are paid
care services                                          promptly for services
*  Hospital and beneficiary    *  Provincial MoH and    supplied to the
satisfaction surveys        Project data               beneficiary population
implemented
(3) Adequate systems of    *  Monitoring reports        .  Provincial MoH and      *  Medical
monitoring and evaluation in   prepared every six months  Project data              associations do not
place                                                                               block the change in
payment mechanisms



Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each      Project Reports:            (from Components to
components:                 component)                                                Outputs)
(1) Establishment of a      (US$2.2 million)              *  Provincial MoH and       *  Financial and
beneficiaries Enrollment    *  Determination of            Project data               technical constraints
database                     eligibility criteria                                      do not hamper the
*  Development of the                                     regular updating of the
database of the uninsured                                beneficiary database
poor
*  On-site surveys to identify                           *  Non-insured non-
current beneficiaries                                    poor have an incentive
*  Identification and                                     to underreport income
establishment of mechanisms                              so as to free-ride
for the regular updating of the                          insurance scheme
database
*  Design and distribution of                            *  Mechanisms are in
beneficiary identification                               place to update the
cards                                                    database for exit and
*  Launch communication                                   entry
campaigns
(2) Design and              (US$2.89 million)             *  Provincial MoH and       *  Resistance to a
Implementation of a Health    *  Design appropriate legal    Project data              PMA for the poor that
Insurance Plan for the poor  framework                                                is different from the
*  Where needed, create,                                  National PMO
define functions, equip and                              .  Pressure from
staff health insurance Agency                            public providers to
*  Technical assistance to                                limit participation of
identify a fiscally affordable                           private providers
package of minimum health
benefits
* Technical assistance to
identify and contract a
provider network in the public
and private sectors
*  Technical assistance to
design provider payment
systems and incentives for
each level of care
(3) Preparation, Monitoring,   (US$1.93 million)          .  Project data
Evaluation and              .  Diagnostic and preparation
Administration               activities in participating
provinces
*  Hospital and health center
surveys
*  Beneficiary satisfaction
surveys
*  Project administration cost



Annex lb: Monitorinig and Evaluation Arrangements
The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) component is designed to evaluate the impact of the
project and to capitalize upon the learning opportunities that this projects provides. The
component is therefore designed to monitor and evaluate the indicators specified in Annex 1 a
(Project Design Summary) at inception, during the implementation period, and upon project
completion. The following table summariizes the monitoring indicators that the entities involved
in the development of this project will need to generate or obtain, as well as key methodological
specifications (source, frequency, control group, etc).
Baseline data for each indicator will be collected at the beginning of project implementation.
- Percentage of patients whose insurance   - survey A (carried out on a sample of public
status is identified at point of entry  hospitals and health centers at the beginning and
upon project completion in areas supported by
the project and control group in areas not
supported by the project).
- Percentage of reimbursements claimed   - survey A
from social and private health insurance
funds for services rendered to their
beneficiaries that are effectively collected
- Key efficiency and productivity     - survey A. Indicators would be identified at the
indicators                            start of the project and would be monitored
against relevant benchmarks. Indicators could
include: average length of stay, utilization rates
of health services, number of laboratory tests per
consultation, production of medical services per
medical staff, administrative costs etc.
- Utilization rates for key services  - regular monitoring in areas where both the
proposed project and the PROMIN project are
active, and comparison with a control group
(areas supported by PROMIN but not by the
proposed project.
-~,                              
- Number of poor registered in the    - frequency: every 3 months
database
- Absolute number and percentage of poor - frequency: every 3 months
with health insurance
- Aggregate cost of PMA, and evolution of - frequency: every six months
its cost structure over time
- Number and quality of audits of     - source: project supervision data
providers carried out



- Functioning MIS                    - source: project supervision data
- Comparison of methods of payment and  - source: project supervision data
unit prices with those obtained by other
insurance carriers
- Financial and economic indicators of the - frequency: every month
Agency, including administrative costs
- Proportion of public spending for health - frequency: every six months
care services for the poor managed by the
health insurance Agency
- Level of cross-subsidies from poor to  - survey A, and hospital billing data
non-poor
- Fiscal impact of the new payment system - frequency: every six months
and of a possible subsidization of health
insurance for the uninsured, non-poor
population
- Differences in health coverage, spending, - frequency: every year
access, and quality between the insured
poor and the rest of the insured population
- Knowledge of and satisfaction with  - beneficiary assessment (survey B) carried out at
health insurance plans and agency    the beginning, at mid-term, and upon project
completion in the project areas and control group
in areas not covered by the project.
- Satisfaction with the quality of care;  - exit polls from hospitals and health centers;
waiting time and waiting lists       focus groups; claims filed with ombudsmen;
survey B
- Evolution of out-of-pocket payments for - survey B
health care over time
- Utilization rates of services included in   - frequency: every month
the PMA
- Project performance in each province    - frequency: every month; based on project
progress reports
- Quality of technical assistance    - frequency: as required
- Number of requests which are made by   - at the end of the project
other provinces to implement similar
schemes



Annex 2: Project Description
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
The following project description details the menu of activities that will be developed to execute
the proposed health insurance in each of the provinces. Given the US$5.0 million ceiling of the
LIL, the project will support the full development of the following activities in the two provinces
of Rio Negro and Salta only (the pilot provinces), and initial activities in other provinces that
meet the eligibility criteria (participating provinces). As previously mentioned, some flexibility
would, however, be- permitted to reallocate funds among pilot participating provinces depending
on their respective performance and compliance with the project requirements.
In the following description of project activities, a situational assessment is provided for the
provinces of Rio Negro and Salta.
Part A: Establishment of the Enrollment Database (Padr6n)
(US$2.2 million)
1.    Objective. The establishment of a database that accurately summarizes key data on the
target population (the non-insured poor) is an essential building block for the health insurance
plan and a critical factor for success. The development of the enrollment database in the pilot
provinces would involve the following: (i) determination of eligibility criteria; (ii) establishment
of the database of the non-insured poor and identification of the mechanisms for its regular
updating; (iii) design and distribution of beneficiary identification cards, and (iv) implementation
of a communications campaign. The proposed project would finance technical assistance,
training and goods to implement the above-mentioned activities.
2.    Context. Estimates of the number of uninsured poor in Rio Negro vary from 135,000 to
350,000 according to whether an income-based poverty line or a Basic Unmet Needs criterion is
used. This population is relatively evenly distributed throughout the province. The province has
decided to introduce the proposed health insurance in a gradual way in its six health zones. It
would start with Zone III, the location of the provincial capital, which has a total population of
92,000 people (i.e. approximately 1/5 of the population of the province).
3.    Estimates of the number of uninsured poor in Salta vary from 380,000 to 450,000
according to whether an income-based poverty line or a Basic Unmet Needs criterion is used. It
is estimated that forty percent of them live in the capital city and its suburbs. The proposed
health insurance would be introduced gradually in the province's four health zones, starting with
the capital where 473,000 people live (i.e., 45 percent of the total population).
(a)    Determination of Eligibility Criteria
4.    A major task would be to determine the eligibility criteria for the proposed health
insurance. A list of poverty indicators will be defined based on the poverty measures currently in
use at the national level, and instruments developed by the SIEMPRO program, to ensure a
coherent identification system throughout the country. The database would also be shared with
the SYNTIS project. A questionnaire would be designed which would be used during on-site
surveys. This survey would collect socio-economic data at the household level and check them
against the pre-identified  poverty  indicators.  In the province of Rio Negro, the
project would finance technical assistance to assist in the determination of the poverty criteria and
prepare the questionnaire that would be used for on-site surveys. No technical assistance would



Annex 2                             Page 2 of 8
be needed in the province of Salta since the latter has contracted international experts to carry out
t]he task (which should be completed by December 1999).
(b)    Establishment of the database of the non-insured poor and identification of the
mechanisms for its regular updating
5.    The province of Rio Negro has developed a preliminary database that currently includes
515,000 people out of a total population of approximately 600,000. To identify the insured
population, the province is in the process of merging this database with the enrollment database
of the insured population from the Provincial Obra Social, the national Obras Sociales, the
INSSJP, and ANSeS. As a further refinement, the province would merge this database with that
of the national revenue service which identifies formal sector employees and tax-paying
independent workers. A preliminary database of the non-insured poor would be established by
eliminating all those with insurance coverage as well as the tax-paying independent workers,
since the latter are considered to be above the poverty line. This database would be gradually
refined by on-site surveys to identify the household demographic and socio-economic data using
the above-mentioned questionnaire. Based on the poverty criteria previously identified, the
province would establish the database of the non-insured poor.
6.    Since August 1998, the province of Salta, in collaboration with the SIEMPRO program
of the Secretariat for Social Development, is starting to register through SISFAM all families who
benefit from a social assistance program. The database would be merged with those of the
provincial Obra Social and of the national revenue office (see case of Rio Negro above). The
establishment of the database is partly financed by the Inter-American Development Bank and the
proposed project would finance complementary technical assistance.
7.    In each province, the proposed project would support the identification of the most
efficient mechanisms by which the database would be updated. The database would be
distributed electronically (CD-Roms, floppy disks, internet, etc.) to all public and private
providers of the network and would be used for billing purposes. The database would be
comprehensive, i.e. would register all those who meet the eligibility criteria.
8.    The project would finance technical assistance and training in each province to: (i)
develop the database and identify mechanisms for its regular updating; (ii) implement on-site
surveys; and (iii) distribute the database among all providers and train public hospital staff.
(c)    Design and distribution of beneficiary identification cards
9.    Each beneficiary, including their dependents, will receive an individual card with a
unique identifying number. The provinces are contemplating supplying magnetic cards, which
could also be used for billing purposes, vis-a-vis simple paper identification cards. The health
insurance Agency in each province would be exclusively responsible for supplying these cards.
In each province, the project would finance technical assistance to design the card, print it,
identify the most cost-effective distribution system and supervise its distribution. One option
would be to distribute these cards to the beneficiaries through the community health workers.



Annex 2                             Page 3 of 8
(d)    Communications campaign
10.   The project would finance technical assistance in each province to design communication
campaigns targeted to the beneficiary population and the networks of health care providers. The
objective of the campaigns would be to inform these two groups about the proposed health
insurance plans. A wide range of communications and media will be used in order to reach the
full spectrum of the targeted audience.
(e)    Chronogram
11.   It is estimated that the establishment of the enrollment database would be completed
within a period of twelve months in the province of Rio Negro, between January 2000 to
December 2000. It is expected to be completed within twelve months in the province of Salta,
between March 2000 and February 2001.
Part B: Development of the proposed health insurance
(US$2.89 million)
(a)    Establishment of the Legal and Institutional Framework
12.   Objective. In each of the pilot provinces, the project will help design and establish the
legal and institutional framework for the implementation of health insurance for the poor. This
framework would include the following: ( i) legal instruments establishing health insurance for the
poor which would define the principal concepts regarding eligibility, health coverage (basic
benefits package), financing sources and transfer mechanisms, the legal entity administrating the
health insurance, provider network, quality control and financial monitoring systems and; (ii)
legal instruments establishing the capacity of public hospitals to charge fees for insured, and non-
insured/non-poor patients. Subsequent decrees and resolutions will detail each of these elements.
13.   Context. The provinces of Rio Negro and Salta recently enacted an Insurance Law that
establishes the creation of health insurance coverage for all uninsured individuals. According to
both laws, the proposed health insurance (called in both cases "provincial health insurance") will
be managed by an entity whose legal status would be later defined by the Government. Through
a subsequent decree in April 1999, the province of Salta entrusted management of the proposed
health insurance to the existing provincial Obra Social - Instituto provincial de Salud - IPS (see
below). The province of Rio Negro has decided to create a new institution (see below). The laws
allow the selected Agencies to contract services for their beneficiaries through a network of
public and private health care providers. With regard to the financing, both laws mention that the
proposed health insurance would be funded by provincial general revenues and that there would
be a gradual transfer of funds from the provincial health budget to the new health insurance
Agency. Health insurance would be fully subsidized for the insured poor population. For those
who do not meet the poverty criteria but who lack insurance, both provinces would consider
making available the basic health benefits package against a monthly premium or charge fees at
the point of service. In this manner, the provinces seek to balance their goal of universal health
insurance while focusing their resources on those financially most needy.
14.   The law of the province of Rio Negro establishes a permanent advisory body composed
of representatives from the Government and the Legislative Assembly, health care personnel,
public/private health insurance providers, and the health insurance Agency. This advisory body
will supervise and evaluate the developrnent of the health insurance plan, and propose necessary



Annex 2                             Page 4 of 8
modifications. The law also indicates that the health insurance plan should be implemented
within two years. In the province of Salta, the government has designated a person to oversee the
implementation of the proposed health insurance. The Government of Salta intends to create a
new Secretariat for provincial health insurance under the Ministry of Health. The new Secretariat
would be responsible for supervising the proposed health insurance and would in particular: (i)
coordinate with the Ministry of Health and the provincial Obra Social to ensure optimal
development of the health insurance; (ii) determine premium-based annual budgets to be
transferred to the provincial Obra Social (the Agency) to pay for the care provided to the enrolled
poor; (iii) gradually implement the proposed health insurance until total coverage of the eligible
population is achieved; and (iv) ensure compliance with the administrative and financing norms
of the provincial government. Ministries of health in both provinces will be responsible for
implementing grievance, complaint and arbitration mechanisms for the insured poor and the
providers in their relation to the health insurance agencies.
15.   Both provinces passed legislation on hospital management autonomy, granting to an
increasing number of public hospitals the right to bill for services provided to insured patients, as
well as to individuals who would not be covered by the proposed insurance. These laws also
decree that a certain percentage of the income generated through such payments would be
retained by the hospital and used for its improvement, as well as for bonuses for personnel. The
balance would revert to the provincial health budget.
16.   The project will support the development of all the necessary resolutions and decrees to
make the provincial health insurance effective, and will review the existing provincial legal
framework to ensure compatibility with the health insurance program. This task would be carried
out by lawyers from the provincial health ministries in collaboration with the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), without the assistance of external consultants.
(b)    Design of a Sustainable Health Insurance Plan
17.   Objective. The project would help design a health insurance plan for the non-insured
poor, which would include: (i) a fiscally affordable package of minimum health benefits; (ii) the
development of a provider network in the public and private sectors; and (iii) the design of
provider payment systems with appropriate incentives. In addition to financing technical
assistance for each of the activities listed below, the project would fund study tours for PCU and
provincial staff involved in project implementation in countries that have experiences with health
insurance that are relevant for the project.
18.   Definition of the Basic Health Benefits Package. Provincial authorities seek to provide
lto the beneficiaries the same services as those included in the national basic health benefits
package (PMO). However, given current financial constraints and the limited supply of high-
complexity care available, the provinces would consider financing a reduced package initially and
gradually extending it as financial resources permit. This is feasible since the provinces have
legal latitude to adopt a health benefits package for the target population that is different from the
national PMO.
19.   The project would finance the technical assistance and training required to identify the
initial health benefits package (PMA) which the provinces can afford at the start of the project as
well the extended package which could be provided later on with increased resources. Technical
assistance would include:
*  analysis of the health services available in the public and private sectors, including
operational efficiency, utilization data and unit costs;



Annex 2                               Page 5 of 8
*  classification of health services based on their epidemiological importance and medical
complexity;
*  identification and costing of the health benefits package for each level of care, including
dentistry, pharmacy and allied health services;
*  identification and costing of the extended package of services; and
*  definition of the criteria for access in exceptional cases to some of the services that are
excluded from the package (such as low-incidence high-complexity care), and identification of
financing options for these services.
20.    Definition of the provider network in the public andprivate sectors. The provinces of
Rio Negro and Salta have decided to use a provider network that would initially be limited to
public sector facilities. This would restrict the choice of providers mostly for the beneficiaries
that are living in the main cities of the provinces (about 50% of the population) where the private
sector is present; it is virtually non-existent in other parts of the provinces. The provinces are,
however, already contracting with the private sector for services that are not available in public
hospitals, especially for high-complexity care and technology; this practice would continue under
the project. The province of Rio Negro intends to open the network to private providers within a
period of 2.5 to four years. The province of Salta initiated informal contacts with the main
associations of private providers in the province to discuss their eventual integration into the
provider network contracted by the Agency. Salta is contemplating opening the network within
four years. A register of private providers would be established based on their compliance with
the predetermined criteria. It will be maintained by each health insurance Agency.
21.    The project would finance technical assistance and training in each province to: (i)
analyze the existing network of public and private providers; (ii) identify a provider network
based on a range of selection criteria that would include geographical accessibility; these criteria
would later be expanded to include quality indicators as defined by the provincial quality
assurance program; (iii) estimate utilization rates of the targeted population; and (iv) define
appropriate referral patterns between the different levels of care.
22.    Definition of provider payment systems and incentives. Based on the experience in
Argentina, the following payment systems; for providers would be considered:
*  Payment per capita, especially for prirnary health care;
*  Payment for a group of services, especially for primary health care, which could include
consultation(s), laboratory and other ancilllary services;
* Payment by module (a module inclucles a set of hospital services, such as general medicine
inpatient day, major surgery, etc. ); and
*  Fee-for-service.
23.    The provinces of Rio Negro and Salta have expressed their initial preference for the
following payment systems: (i) payment per capita or for a group of services for the primary care
level; and (ii) fee-for-service for public hospitals, in order to provide them with incentives to
monitor their production and cost structure, as well as to bill for services. In the second phase,
the provinces envisage a shift to payment by module, or by risk-adjusted capita for hospitals.
24.    The project would support the development of pilots that would develop incentives for
both providers and beneficiaries to increase the appropriate use of primary health care services.
These pilots would be tested in those areas where public primary health care facilities havebeen
upgraded, largely through the support of the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Projects.



Annex 2                             Page 6 of 8
The project will help to design appropriate incentives which may include gatekeeping schemes
and price incentives for a list of maternal and child health services.
25.   The project would finance technical assistance to identify the best payment systems and
incentives for the different levels of care. For example, the existing salary incentives based on
revenues generated by hospital billing to health insurance funds would be expanded to cover
billing for services provided to project beneficiaries. The alternatives for payment systems will
be evaluated based on two main criteria: (i) the expected cost of the package per beneficiary; and
(ii) the incentives for demand and supply (i.e., under- or over-provision of services by providers,
high or low utilization of services by patients).
26.   Chronogram. It is estimated that the design of the health insurance plans would require
twelve months in the province of Rio Negro (from January 2000 to December 2000) and thirteen
months in the province of Salta (from March 2000 to February 2001).
(c)    Establishment and operation of the Health Insurance Agency
27.   Objective. The project would support the design and operation of a health insurance
Agency. The Agency can either be created or be added to an existing administrative structure. In
case the province decides to use an existing entity to act as the health insurance Agency, it was
agreed during project preparation that this entity would comply with the following pre-requisites:
(1) if it has debts, those should be at a low and sustainable level; (2) it should have no operational
deficit; and (3) it should have the capacity to manage administrative, financial and service
delivery systems independently from the provincial government. In case the province decides to
create a new entity, it was agreed that this new entity would be endowed with an organizational
structure, operational capacity and financial resources that would ensure it technical and financial
viability.
28.   Prior to the establishment of the health insurance Agency, provincial governments would
have to define the respective roles of the provincial health Authority and of the Agency. They
would also have to establish the pace of transfer of funding from provincial health budgets to the
Agency and the corresponding transfer of decision powers, especially with regard to the
management of health personnel and the negotiation of management contracts with public
hospitals. The province of Rio Negro intends to put this transfer of funds into effect within the
next two years, while the province of Salta envisages a four-year horizon for this activity.
29.   The health insurance Agencies would fulfill the following functions: (1) finance the
services included in the basic benefits package to its beneficiaries and ensure effective delivery
and quality of services; (2) efficiently manage the funds transferred from the provincial treasury;
(3) contract with providers, including drug suppliers, and control compliance with contract
indicators; (4) monitor and evaluate the enrollment database, the register of providers, the cost of
the benefits package per beneficiary, including drugs etc; and (5) participate in the definition of
the provincial health policy in coordination with the government and non-governmental agencies.
30.   A monitoring and control system for the health insurance Agency would be established in
each province, which would include regular monitoring of the financial, administrative, and
technical performance of the Agency (see Annex lb), as well as financial audits carried out
annually by provincial legislative bodies.
31.   Context. The province of Rio Negro has decided to create a new entity to manage the
proposed health insurance. This decision was taken based on the fact that the provincial Obra



Annex 2                              Page 7 of 8
Social did not comply with the pre-requisites since it has a significant operating deficit. The
Agency has already been created and, since February 1999, partly staffed. It has been involved in
the preparation of the proposed project. The province of Salta, on the other hand, has chosen to
entrust the management of the proposed health insurance to the existing provincial Obra Social -
Instituto Provincial de Salud (IPS), which is providing health care coverage to around 330,000
public employees and their dependents. A financial assessment carried out during project
preparation showed that the IPS complies with the above-mentioned financial prerequisites; it has
no operating deficit and a very low debt ratio.
32.   Design of the Health Insurance Agency. In the province of Rio Negro, the project
would finance technical assistance and training to design:
*  the organizational structure, functions, and operational manuals;
*  the financial and administrative procedures;
*  the medical and financial systems to audit providers;
* the information systems and the training to support the above;
*  management contracts with providers;
*  the mechanism to maintain the register of contracted providers;
*  the organization and function of the consumer service unit, including the creation of a
grievance procedure and resolution function; and
  print an information booklet for the beneficiaries.
33.   In the province of Salta, such activities would be implemented by the provincial Obra
Social (IPS). The project would finance limited technical assistance to help in specific areas and
to supervise the overall implementation of the activities.
34.   Operation of the Health Insurance Agency. In the province of Rio Negro, the project
would finance limited investments in computers and office equipment.  The recurrent
expenditures of the Agency would be fully financed trough the provincial health budget from the
start of the project. It is expected that the Agency would have a maximum of 15-20 staff when
fully operational. The Agency staff would include a small management team, systems analysts,
medical and financial auditors, and adminlistrative staff. In the province of Salta, the operating
costs of the proposed health insurance would also be fully financed trough the provincial health
budget from the start of the project. It would include the incremental operating cost,likely to be
modest, incurred by the provincial Obra to manage the proposed health insurance, as well as the
operating cost of the newly established Secretariat for provincial health insurance. It is expected
that the Secretariat would be staffed by 25 to 30 employees when fully operational.
35.   Chronogram. The establishment of the health insurance Agency in the province of Rio
Negro is expected to take eight months, fiom January 2000 to August 2000, at which time the
Agency will start operating. The province of Salta estimates that the establishment of the General
Coordination Unit and the setting upof the management and information systems within the
provincial Obra Social, would require around eight months, from March 2000 to October 2000.



Annex 2                             Page 8 of 8
Part C: Preparation, Monitoring, Evaluation and Administration
(US$1.93 million)
36.   The project would support diagnostic and preparation activities in provinces other than
the two pilot ones (Rio Negro and Salta).
37.   The project would also support the monitoring and evaluation activities that would allow
evaluation of the impact of the project and capitalize upon the learning opportunities that this
project provides. The component is therefore designed around the monitoring and evaluation of
the indicators specified in Annex la (Project Design Summary) at inception, during the
implementation period, and upon project completion. The table in Annex lb summarizes the
monitoring indicators that the entities involved in the development of this project will need to
generate or obtain, as well as key methodological specifications (source, frequency, control
group, etc).
38.   The project would finance two different types of impact surveys using the methodology
of control groups (i.e., by comparing the results obtained in areas supported by the project and in
areas where the project is not implemented). The first type of survey would be carried out on a
sample of public hospitals and health centers at the beginning and upon project completion
(survey A), and would monitor the evolution of a series of indicators linked to: (a) billing
practices: the percentage of patients whose insurance status is identified at the point of entry; the
percentage of reimbursement claimed from insurance funds for services provided to their
beneficiaries that are effectively collected; and (b) efficiency and productivity: average length of
stay, utilization rates of services, number of laboratory tests per consultation, length of waiting
list, etc. The second type of surveys (survey B) would be beneficiary assessments that would
monitor the satisfaction of beneficiaries with the health insurance plans and Agency, the
perceived quality of the care provided by the network, and the evolution of out-of-pocket
payments. These assessments would be carried out at the beginning, at mid-term and upon
project completion. Quarterly focus groups and exit polls from health centers and hospitals
would also be carried out in order to obtain a continuous feedback from the beneficiaries.
39.   Although it would not be possible to measure changes in health status within the short
duration of the project, indicators would be developed, and a baseline would be established for
regular monitoring of health status of the beneficiary population.
40.   The administrative cost of the project coordination unit would also be included in this
component.



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
Enrollment Database                                      0.9              1.08           1.98
Health Insurance                                         2.1              0.58           2.68
Preparation, Monitoring, Evaluation and Administration   1.541            0.3            1.841
Total Baseline Cost                                      4.541            1.96          6.501
Physical Contingencies (5%)                            0.23             0.10          0.33
Price Contingencies (3%)                               0.13             0.06          0.19
Total Project Costs           4.901            2.12           7.021
Front-end Fee               0.00             0.049          0.049
Total Financing Required          4.901           2.169          7.07
Goods                                                    0.40           0.20           0.60
Consultant Services and Training                         3.19            1.92           5.11
Parts A and B of the project                        2.32           1.39            3.71
Part C of the project                               0.87           0.53            1.40
Project Administration costs                             0.151           0.00           0.151
Recurrent costs                                          1.16           0.00            1.16
Total Project Costs            4.901          2.12            7.02
Front-end Fee               0.00            0.049          0.049
Total Financing Required         4.901           2.169          7.07



Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
1. The economic analysis will aim at understanding the impact of the project and at evaluating
the resources needed to ensure its sustainability and its replication to other provinces. Analytical
reports, based on the data that will be generated and collected during project implementation, will
be produced every six months after project effectiveness. These reports will focus on the
following two questions:
2. What is the fiscal impact of the project at provincial level? The project is expected to be
fiscally neutral (or close to), at least in the early part of the implementation period, because:
(a) The proposed health insurance for the poor will be funded out of existing provincial budget
allocations (principally global allocations provided to public hospitals and health centers). The
project initially calls for a simple transfer of these funds from the provincial ministries of health
to either existing or newly created health insurance Agencies. These Agencies will, in turn, pay
for health services provided to the poor enrolled in the new insurance program within these
budget constraints. Preliminary simulations show that current provincial spending in bothRio
Negro and Salta would be sufficient to finance a basic package of services costing about $20 per
month per beneficiary if provincial funding were entirely targeted toward the uninsured poor
population.
(b) The funding available for the newly insured poor is expected to increase due to a concomitant
decrease in the cross-subsidies from the public to the insurance sector. A portion of public
hospitals resources is currently being used to provide free care to insured patients, resulting in
fewer resources available for health care for the poor. The billing and collection for services
provided to the insured population in public hospitals that has recently begun should free up
public resources for health care for the poor. This project will closely monitor the increased
revenue collection efforts of hospitals in each participating province. It is difficult to estimate at
present the revenues that would be generated through increased billing since the level of current
cross-subsidies is not known and the capacity of each autonomous hospital to bill and recover
fees is likely to vary across hospitals. These two elements would be monitored during the course
of the project and recommendations would be made to provincial authorities as to how to improve
revenue collection methods. In particular, the strategy adopted by the province of Rio Negro to
contract out billing for all public hospital services to an international firm that would be paid a
fixed percentage of collected revenues would be reviewed for potential adoption by other
provinces. The project would also monitor the extent to which increased funds generated by
improved revenue collection methods are actually used to provide more health care services to
the poor.
(c) The only incremental recurrent costs initially associated with the project in each province are
the administrative costs of operating, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the
proposed provincial health insurance agencies and program. These costs will be borne by the
provincial ministries of health out of their existing budgets and be closely monitored by the
project.
(d) The project should generate increases in the efficiency of the provincial delivery systems
through the introduction of new payment mechanisms and other incentives. These should result
in greater productivity of providers, allowing a larger and more appropriate mix of services to be



available to the target population. Changes in efficiency will also be measured throughout the
project (See Annex lb).
3. While it is expected that the reduction in cross-subsidies and, possibly, gains in efficiency
will initially make up for the increased administrative and monitoring and evaluation costs, it is
also expected that the change in incentive structure for consumers (access to a clear package of
benefits and ability to claim their right to certain services) and providers (particularly fee-for-
service reimbursement mechanisms for hospitals) will exert an upward pressure on the production
of health services and on provincial public health spending. The likely pressure on health
spending will have to be set against the prospects for provincial funds available for health care.
In addition to the macro fiscal situation, the availability of funds will depend upon (a) the
response of Obras Sociales to public hospital billing for services, and the consequent impact on
the financial situation of Obras Sociales; (b) the degree to which the provincial government
decides to subsidize health care for the currently uninsured non-poor population; and (c) the
comprehensiveness of the PMA. The economic analysis will periodically bring all these
parameters (production of services, costs of services, administrative costs, resources from
provision of services to patients insured by Obras and private health insurers, provincial public
health spending, etc.) together in order understand the wider implications of the introduction of a
health insurance program for the poor. The analysis will help focus the attention of policy
makers on critical financing and demand management issues. Simulations on the cost of services
for the health insurance Agency and on the financing of public hospitals of opening the provider
network to competition from the private sector will be carried out.
4. What are the distributional and efficiency effects of the health insurance program?  The
introduction of the proposed health insurance program is expected to better target public
resources for the poor and to encourage the poor to exert their right to health care. Targeting
(e.g., the percentage of provincial health spending that is transferred to the health insurance
agency; the percentage of the health insurance agency resources that is used for production of
services) and demand indicators (utilization rates of primary health care facilities and hospitals)
will be continuously monitored and compared with appropriate control groups and baselines. A
related issue is for which types of services does demand increase? The analysis will help
determine whether the sub-pilots where the primary health care facilities are established as
mandatory gatekeepers for basic maternal and child health services are successful in diverting
demand from hospitals to primary health care facilities, from curative to preventive activities and,
more generally, from less to more cost effective health care.



Annex 5: Financial Summary
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
Years Ending December
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3    TOTAL
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             1.14        3.44       1.15       5.73
Recurrent Costs
PCU                              0.02        0.06       0.05       0.13
Provincial Counterpart           0.23        0.46       0.47       1.16
Total Project Costs              1.39       3.96        1.67       7.02
Front-end Fee                 0.049                            0.049
Total Financing                  1.44       3.96        1.67       7.07
Financing
IBRD/IDA                     1.00        2.90       1.00       4.90
Government
Central                   0.21       0.60        0.20       1.01
Provincial                0.23       0.46        0.47       1.16
Total Project Financing          1.44       3.96        1.67       7.07
Note: After project completion, the only recurrent costs that would remain would be those annually
financed by each province in order to support the operating cost of the health insurance Agency and
of the monitoring and control system for the proposed health insurance.



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World
Bank guidelines on procurement of goods, works and services, and using standard
contract documents acceptable to the World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September
1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A.
Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in
close coordination with the Central Unit for Administration and Finance(Unidad Central
de Administraci6n y Finanzas) within the MSAS, which will administrate project funds.
For this purpose, a procurement officer will be recruited by the PCU in agreement with
the manager of the Central Unit and the Bank prior to project effectiveness. The
Operations Manual will include, zin addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard
Bidding Documents to be used in each case, as well as contracts to be awarded on the
basis of quotations.
Procurement of Goods
Goods include computer hardware and software, and office equipment for the total
amount of US$0.6 million, out of which the Bank will finance US$0.5 million.
Contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages estimated to cost more
than US$350,000 equivalent and shall be procured following International Competitive
Bidding procedures (ICB), using ]3ank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$350,000 per bidding package but more than
US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$480,000 equivalent shall be
contracted following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures using model
documents acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and which are
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent may be procured under Price
Comparison (National /International shopping) procedures for an aggregate amount not
to exceed US$120,000 equivalent.  The project shall obtain at least 3 quotations
from qualified suppliers using a mlodel request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Consulting Services
Consulting services including, among others, technical assistance, census of the
beneficiary population, developnment of the enrollment database, design of the health
insurance Agency, development of the health insurance plan, social communication
Where no relevant standard contract exists, olther standard forms acceptable to the Bank



Annex 6                            Page 2 of 10
campaigns and monitoring and evaluation of the health insurance system for the total
amount of US$5.11 million equivalent, out of which the Bank will finance US$4.22
million equivalent shall be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised on September 1997 and January 1999).
Consulting firms will be hired through Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), with
the exception of two contracts for the social communication campaigns estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each, which will be contracted under Selection under a
Fixed Budget (SFB).
Consulting services contracts with individual consultants will be awarded in accordance
with Section V of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised September 1997 and January 1999).
Administration costs
Administration costs for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for a total of US$0.15
million will be financed under the project, out of which the Bank will finance a maximum
of US$0.13 million equivalent, on the basis of an annual plan acceptable to the Bank.
These costs comprise: (i) PCU staff domestic travel and per diem; (ii) office supplies,
material and computer software directly related to the implementation of the project; (iii)
the cost of public utility services; and (iv) office space rental for the PCU. Procurement
of sundry consumable and office items will be made using either Shopping Procedures or
Administrative Procedures described in the Operational Manual.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Bank's prior review would be required for:
(I)    Goods
(i) for all contracts to be awarded under ICB; and
(ii) for the first contract to be awarded under NCB.
(II)    Consulting Services
(i) for consulting firms, all contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or
more;
(ii) for consulting firms, all contacts estimated to cost between US$100,000 and
US$200,000; the Bank should receive the results of the technical evaluation
before proceeding to the combined technical-financial evaluation;
(iii) for individual consultants, all contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or
more:
(iv) PCU staff contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 or more and
those for key PCU staff, regardless of the amount, as will be identified during
negotiations;
(v) extensions of contracts with consulting firms raising the total contract value at
US$100,000 or above; and
(vi) extensions of contracts with individual consultants raising the total contract
value at US$50,000 equivalent or more.
(III)  Project Administrative Costs
(i) any expenditures estimated to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent.



Annex 6                              Page 3 of lO
Under current prior review arrangements it is expected that 83% of the contracts for
Goods and Consulting Services would be subject to prior review, representing 96% and
90% respectively of the funds allocated to these categories.
Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation
which provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (see
Table D, Annex 6). At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower shall update
the Procurement Plan with a detai.led procurement schedule for the coming year.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
An assessment of the capacity of the PCU to implement procurement actions for the
project has been carried out. It assessed the organizational structure of the proposed
PCU, the interaction between the project's Procurement Officer and the Ministry of
Health's Central Unit for Administration and Finance.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) the possibility of interference from
non-procurement experienced staff in procurement management; (ii) unrealistic
procurement planning; and (iii) the need to improve procurement filing in the Central
Unit and to develop a contract mo:nitoring system.
Most of the issues concerning the Central Unit have been or are being addressed, and
corrective measures are being implemented under another Bank-supported project that is
also managed by this Unit. In the particular case of this project, responsibility for
technical and procurement activities is clearly identified in different areas of the project,
both reporting to the Project's General Coordinator. In addition, the Project has already
presented a detailed procurement plan acceptable to the Bank. Monitoring and evaluation
of contracts awarded under this project is a key activity envisaged in the action plan, with
a specific allocation of human and financial resources. Document filing is expected to
comply with Bank's requirements as it has during project preparation stage. The
Operational Manual will include an Annex describing guidelines, acceptable to the Bank,
for procurement filing. These guidelines will specify the procurement documents to be
filed, the PCU staff who would have access to the files, and the internal security
measures for record-keeping.
The project's risk factor for procurement implementation is considered Average.
Disbursement
The proposed loan will disburse over a period of 2.5 years. The expected closing date is
December 31, 2002 and the project completion date is June 30, 2002. Disbursements will
be made for (i) 85% of goods including computer hardware and software and office
equipment, totaling US$0.5 million; and (ii) 100% of individual consulting services and
training under contracts procured by a tax-exempt procurement agency and 85% of all
other consulting services and training, totaling US$4.22 million, and (iii) 87% of the
project administration costs totaling US$0.131 million equivalent. To facilitate prompt
start of the project, retroactive financing of up to 10 percent of the loan or US$490,000
would be available to cover eligible expenditures for disbursement categories "1. Goods,"
"2. Consultants' Services and Training," and "3. Project Administration" incurred on or
after July 12, 1999, but no more than 12- months prior to loan signing.



Annex 6                            Page 4 of IO
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The Federal Government will contribute counterpart funds to the project by paying the
value added tax on goods and services. Provincial governments' counterpart contribution
to the project will include the operating costs of the health insurance Agency (human
resources, office space, etc) and of the monitoring and evaluation system of the proposed
health insurance program. Funding will be allocated in each year's provincial health
budget.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements of the loan proceeds for contracts valued at less than US$100,000 for
consulting firms and US$50,000 with individual consultants, goods and administrative
expenditures will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).   The
documentation supporting claims under SOEs will be retained by the PCU and made
available for review and examination by auditors and Bank supervision team. This
procedure will be phased out when the project will be converted to PMR disbursement, as
per the action plan agreed upon during the project appraisal mission.
Special account:
The Bank financial analyst assessed the project unit and concluded that it has an adequate
accounting system, financial reporting systems and segregation of duties to ensure the
provision of accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures. A LACI implementation plan was defined and it was agreed with the
Finance and Administration Manager of the existing central unit that the System will be
implemented six months after loan effectiveness (for further detail see the document in
the project files).
To facilitate the management of funds, the Government will establish one Special
Account (SA), to be opened in Banco de Ia Nacion Argentina and operated by the Central
Unit for administration and finance within the Ministry of Health and Social Action
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. When the project is considered
LACI compliant and ready for PMR disbursements, the special account will be
replenished based on the PMRs submitted by the Central Unit, after certification by an
auditor. The initial disbursement will be based on the first six-month expenditure forecast
for the first year of the project but shall not exceed $850,000. When the project's
financial management arrangements do not allow for PMR disbursements, to facilitate
disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Bank would, upon request, make an
authorized allocation of $650,000 to the SA for all expenditures. Replenishment of the
SA would follow Bank procedures. The authorized allocation shall be limited to
$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
amount of all outstanding special commitments equals or exceeds $1,000,000. The
replenishment applications would be supported by a bank statement of the SA and a
reconciliation bank statement of the SA against the Bank's records. The project would be
audited annually.



Annex 6                                 Page S of 10
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
1.~4                           1 God    .52i 0.0                                0.6
(0.43)     (0.07)                        (0.50-)
2. Consultants' Services and                               5.11                         5.1 1
Training                                              (4.22)                        (4.22)
2a. Parts A and B of the project                       3.71                          3. 71
(3.15)                      (3.15)
2b. Part C of the project                              1.40                          1.40
(1.07)                       (1.07)
3. Project Administration(*)                               0.151                        0.151
(0.131)                      (0.131)
4. Recurrent Costs (**)                                                   1.16          1.16
(0.0)         (0.0)
5. Front-end Fee                                           0.049                        0.049
(0.049)                      (0.049)
Total Project costs                          0.52        5.43           1.16           7.07
____________________________    _________  (0.43)    (4.47)         (0.0)         (4.90)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Other =  1.   Goods = National or International Shopping
2.   Consulting Services = QCBS, Individual consultants according to Section V of
the Guidelines
Detailed procurement methodologies in Table Al below
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
(*) Project administrative costs include (i) international and domestic travel and per diem for the
staff of PCU; (ii) office supplies, materials and equipment directly related to the
implementation of the Project; (iii) services rendered by public utilities; and (iv) rental of
office space for the PCU
(**) Recurrent costs include the cost of operating the Health Insurance Agency (human resources,
office space, etc) in each Province and of the monitoring and evaluation system of the
proposed health insurance program. These costs will be financed by each Province from the
start of the Project.



Annex 6                                    Page 6 of 10
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangewnents
(in JS$million equivalent)
__~~~~ V
QCBS         QBS         SFB _      LCS    ICQ             Other       N.B.F.   _
A. Firms               4.07                     0.12                              0.4 .                       4.60
(3.36)                  (0. )                              (0.34)                      (3.80,1
B. Individuals                                                                    0.(1 j0.51
_______________   ________   ______   _ ______   _____ `0.42)          (0 .42 )
Total    4.07                      012                               0.92                         5.11
(3.36)                   (01 )                             (0.76)                       (4.22)
Note: QCBS  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based or Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the arrounts to be financed by the Bank loac,.



Annex 6                             Page 7 of 10
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Goods              >350,000                      ICBAl
> 100,000 -$3 50, 000       NCB                First contract
<100,000               Nat-Int Shopping           None
2. Consultants'
Services and Training
a. Firms            >100,000                     QCBS                   All
b. Individuals       >50,000                  Section V of              All
Guidelines
3. Project             >50,000                     Other                  All
administrative costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    4.54
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4
months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Annex 6                                Page 8 of 10
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Goods                                    0.50                        85%
2. Consultants' Services &                  4.22                         85%
Training
2a Parts A andB of the project            3.15                        85%
2b. Part C of the project                 1.07                  see Note 1 below
3. Project administration costs             0.131                        87%
4. Recurrent costs                           0.0                         0%
Total Project costs                         4.85
Front-end Fee                               0.049                       100%
Total                                       4.90
Note 1: The financing percentages for Category 2(b) are:
(i) 100% for individual consulting services and training under contracts procured by tax-exempt
procurement agency; and
(ii) 85% for all other consulting services and training.



Annex 6                               Page 9 of 10
Annex 6, Table D: Project Procurement Plan
Process         Code   Estimated  Procurement  General Call     Bidding       Selling    Tech. ~Evalua-tion    Evaluation    Signed Contract
Cost (in   Method       for Bids   Documents sent to Bids/Sending   Report sent to   Report Received Received by the
Pesos)                                the Bank        to PP         Bank         by the Bank       Bank
Determination of       04.01.01   8,100     Individual                 24-Sep-99                                                  15-Nov-99
Eligibility Criteria
Census of the beneficiary  04.01.02  379,850  SBCC      26-Jun-99      22-Oct-99     8-Nov-99      13-Dec-99       22-Dec-99       7-Jan-00
population
Establishment of the   04.01.03  293,304     SBCC       26-Jun-99      15-Sep-99     25-Oct-99     29-Nov-99       9-Dec-99       23-Dec-99
database anu identification
of the mechanisms for its
updating
Definition of the basic    04.01.04  485,460  SBCC      26-Jun-99      15-Sep-99     13-Oct-99     16-Nov-99       29-Nov-99      13-Dec-99
health benefits package,
the provider network and
provider payment systems
and incentives
Design of the Health   04.01.05  403,683     SBCC       26-Jun-99      15-Sep-99     12-Oct-99     15-Nov-99       24-Nov-99      10-Dec-99
Insurance Agency
Design of the          04.01.06   49,652   Fixed Budget  26-Jun-99     21-Feb-00     7-Mar-00                 _    24-Apr-00       9-May-00
Communication Campaign
Monitoring and Evaluation 04.01.07  360,000  SBCC       26-Jun-99      I 1-Feb-00    28-Feb-00                     14-Apr-00      2-May-00
B.- Goods                     U         i



Annex 6                               Page 10 of 10
Design and distribution of 04.01.08  399,631  L.P.I.      26-Jun-99  r   4-Feb-00      21-Feb-00 1            -I      7-Apr-00       24-Apr-00
beneficiary identification
cards, and supervision of
the distribution
Equipment for the Health  04.01.09   60,000  Shopping    26-Jun-99       9-Dec-99      27-Dec-99      2     0         7-Feb-00       25-Feb-00
Insurance Agency
wConsultantsprovIder
Process                | siated  Procurement   General Call      Bidding       Selling of   Tech. Evaluation     Evaluation     Signed Contract
ost (in       Method       for Bids   Documents sent to bids/sending  Report sent to the Report Received Received by the
Pesos)                                   Bank          to PP |        Bank       |by the Bank  |      Bank
Support for the census and 04.02.01   187,119  SBCC      26-Jun-99       6-Dec-99      21 -Dec-99    124-Jan-00       2-Feb-00       26-Feb-00
for the establishment of the
beneficiary database                                                        
Agency               _   ____ _          _  _ _ _ ___  1 _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  _ ____I___l__I
Support for defnition of  04.02.02   196,482  SBCCug      26-Jun-99      8-Dec-99      23-De8-99      26-Jan-00       7-Feb-00 0     21-Feb-00
te basic health benefits
package, the provider
network and provider                                   |
payment systems and                                                         
icentives                                                                                                                        i
Support for the design of  04.02.031  186,224  SBCC    |26-Jun-99       10-Dec-99      27-Dec-99      3 31-Jan-00      9-Feb-00   |23-Feb-00
te HealthlInsurance
Agency                                                             
Design of the         |04.02.04|  50,362   Fixed Budget |26-Jun-99     Ill-Feb-00      28-Feb-00 |- |10-Apr-00   |24-Apr-00
communication campaign
Monitoring and Evaluation 04.02.05  360,000   SBCC        26-Jun-99      10-Mar-00     27-Mar-00              -       10-May-00      24-May-00



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                            IO months
First Bank mission (identification)             01/21/1999           01/21/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     06/19/1999           06/19/1999
Negotiations                                    08/24/1999            10/06/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/15/2000              TBD
Prepared by: The PRESSS Team (Ministry of Health and Social Action)
Preparation assistance: none
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Marie-Odile Waty                           Task Team Leader
Girindre Beeharry                          Co-Task Team Leader
Alexandre Abrantes                         Country Sector Leader
Myrna Alexander                            Country Director
Charles Griffin                            Health Sector Manager
Patricia Mintz                             Health Insurance Consultant
Teresa Genta-Fons                          Country Counsel
lDavid Varela                              Country Counsel
Susana Cirigliano                          Financial Management Specialist
Jose Moscoso                               Operations/Procurement Specialist
Jan Bultman                                Peer Reviewer
Phil Musgrove                              Peer Reviewer
Marian Kaminskis                           Team Assistant



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
I.    Seguro Provincial de Salud.- Aportes para la construcci6n de un Seguro Puiblico
de Saludpara todos los Rionegrinos. Secretaria de Estado de Salud
Puiblica/Consejo provincial de Salud Puiblica del Gobierno de Rio Negro. By J.
Vilosio and R. Pereyra;.
2.    Argentina: Facing the Challenge of Health Insurance Reform. Human and
Social Development Group, Latin America and the Caribbean Region of the
World Bank; May 30, 1997.
3.    Provincial Health Insurance Programs for the Poor in Argentina. By Patricia
Mintz, December 1998.
4.    Estudio de Prediagnostico: Provincia de Salta. PRESSS (Programa de
Reconversi6n del Sistema de Seguro de Salud); May 1999.
5.    Estudio de Prediagnostico: Provincia de Rio Negro. PRESSS (Programa de
Reconversi6n del Sistema de Seguro de Salud); May 1999.
6.    Seguro de Saludpara Poblaciones sin Cobertura: Provincia de Salta. Ministerio
de Salud y Acci6n Social - Repuiblica Argentina - Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (BIRF) - PRESSS; June 1999.
7.    Seguro de Saludpara Poblaciones sin Cobertura: Provincia de Rio Nego.
Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social - Repuiblica Argentina - Banco Internacional
de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (BIRF) - PRESSS; June 1999.
8.    Financial Management Assessment prepared by Susana Cirigliano; July, 1999.
9.    Procurement Capacity Assessment prepared by Jose Moscoso; July, 1999.
10.   Implementation Completion Report: Argentina Health Insurance Reform SAL.
Human and Social Development Group, Latin America and the Caribbean
Region of the World Bank; July, 1999.
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amournt in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Rorrower                     Purpose
Project ID YaoIBRD        IDA      Cancellatiorns  Undisbursed       Orig    Frm Rev'd
Ntumber of Closed Projects: 60
Active Projects
AR-PE-55461     1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                     10.00        0.00        0.00              10.00        1.00        0.00
AR-PE-57449     1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             ARG YEAR 2000                           30.30        0.00        0.00              3020         8.30        0.00
AR-PE-58526     1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             DRUG PREVENT.(LIL)                       4.75        0.00        0.00               4.75        0.00        0.00
AR-PE-6043       1999   GOVT ARGENTINA                   RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS                     30.00        0.00        0.00              30.00        0.00        0.00
AR-PE-6046      1999   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 WATER SCTR RFRM                         30.00        0.00        0.00             30.00         0.00        0.00
AR-PE-6058       1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            SOC.PROTECT 4                           90.75        0.DD        0.00              90.75        4. 7 0      0.00
AR-PE-62991     1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA           SPECIAL SAL (SSAL)                   2,525.25        0.00        0.00          1,500.00   1,000.00          0.00
AR-PE-62992     1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA           SPEC REPURCHASE                        505.05        0.00        0.00            505.05         0.00        0.00
AR-PE-49269     1998   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                SOC PROTEC 3                           284.00        0.00        0.00             199.13      -84.87        0.00
AR-PE-50713      1998   MINISTRY OF ECONOMY              MODEL COURT DEV.                         5.00        0.00        0.00               5.00        2.10        0.00
AR-PE-50714     1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             SECOND.ED 3                            119.00        0.00        0.00              84.25       74.35        0.00
AR-PE-51693      1998   GOVERNMENT                       P.RFM(SALTA)                            75.00        0.00        0.00              30.00       30.00        0.00
AR-PE-51694      1998   GOVERNMENT                       P.RFM(S.JUAN)                           50.00        0.00        0.00              40.00       40.00        0.00
AR-PE-51695     1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                         '75.00        0.00        0.00              25.00       25.00        0.00
AR-PE-52590      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            NAT HWY REHAR&MAINT                    450.00        0.00        0.00            348.39       159.76        0.00
AR-PE-55477     1998   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 MINING TA                               39.50        0.00        0.00              29.50       21.90        0.00
AR-PE-55935     1998   GOVERNMENT                        EL NINO EMERGENCY                       42.00        0.00        0.00             40.00        28.00       -2.00
AR-PE-6006       1998   MIN. OF ECONOMY                  P.RFM(TUCUMAN)                         100.00        0.00        0.00              45.00       45.00        0.00
AR-PE-6041      1998   GOVERNMENT                        SMALL FARMER DV.                        75.00        0.00        0.00             51.10         7.59       -7.91
AR-PE-6050       1998   REP OF ARGENTINA                 POLLUTION MGT.                          18.00        0.00        0.00              18.00        6.20        0.00
AR-PE-39584      1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                B.A.URB.TSP                            200.00        0.00        0.00            154.76        30.77        0.00
AR-PE-40808      1997   GOA                              N.FOREST/PROTC                          19.50        0.00        0.00              16.57       -1.73        0.00
AR-PE-43418     1997   REPUBLIC OF ARG                   AIDS PREV.&STD CTRl.                    15.00        0.00        0.00               6.83         .08        0.00
AR-PE-46821      1997   GOVT.OF ARG                      PENSION TA                              20.00        0.00        0.00              11.64        7.58        0.00
AR-PE-5980      199'7  GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 PROV ROADS                             300.00        0.00        0.00            269.10        97.08        0.00
AR-PE-6010       1997   GOA                              PROV AG DEVT I                         125.00        0.00        0.00            118.84         9.34        0.00
AR-PE-6052      1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 FLOOD PROTECTION                       200.00        0.00        0.00            187.98        37.98       -3.02
AR-PE-6059      1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                MTL.CHD.HTII.2                         100.00        0.00        0.00             '16.12       -4.90        0.00
AR-PE-34091     1996   REP OF ARGENTINA                  HIGHER ED REFORM                       165.00        0.00        0.00              96.49       80.49       65.49
AR-PE-37049     1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                       16.00        0.00        0.00              14.83       12.83        0.00
AR-PE-38883     1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             ENT.EXPORT DV.                          38.50        0.00        0.00              11.99       11.97       11.97
AR-PE-45687      1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA                H.INSURANCE TA                          25.00        0.00        0.00               2.96        2.96        0.00
AR-PE-6030      1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA                PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV                   101.40        0.00        0.00              74.29       56.78        0.00



Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
AR-PE-6040      1996   GOVERNMENT                        FORESTRY/DV                             16.00        0.00        0.00             10.57          .68        0.00
AR-PE-6055      1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA                MINING SCTR DEVT                        30.00        0.00        0.00               2.55        -.94        0.00
AR-PE-6057      1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA                SECNDARY ED 2                          115.50        0.00        0.00             81.34        50.04      -34.16
AR-PE-5992      1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           SECONDARY ED I                         190.00        0.00       20.00              90.86      110.87       58.57
AR-PE-6018       1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               PROV DEVT II                           225.00        0.00        0.00             143.87         .88        0.00
AR-PE-6060      1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 MUNIC DEVT II                          210.00        0.00        0.00            134.36       -27.14        0.00
AR-PE-6025      1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N                   100.00        0.00        0.00               3.71        3.71        0.00
AR-PE-6003      1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           RD MAINT & REHAB SCT                   340.00        0.00        0.00              17.47       13.50        0.00
AR-PE-6036       1993   GOVERNMENT                       YACYRETA II                            300.00        0.00        0.00                .48         .47        0.00
AR-PE-5977       1991   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               WTR SUPPLY II                          100.00        0.00       36.00              17.25       53.25       17.25
AR-PE-5968       1987   SEGBA                            SEGBA V                                276.00        0.00        0.00              43.26       43.26        0.00
Total                                                                                        7,786.50         0.00       56.00          4,724.34   1,958.84        106.19
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               3,006.16            8,400.04          11,406.20
of which has been repaid:                260.97            3,536.56            3,797.53
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               7,469.52            4,865.52          12,335.04
Amount sold                                       0.00               12.79               12.79
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               12.79               12.79
Total Undisbursed                :            4,724.34                2.00            4,726.34
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Annex 9 (cont.)
Statement of IFC Loans and Credits
Argentina: Health Insurance for the Poor
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval       Company         Loan      Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Par
1960/95/97      Acindar                35.00   16.43   10.00    61.11    35.00   16.43   10.00   56
1977/84/86/88/94  Alpargatas           24.23    6.05    6.37    89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37   48
/96
1978/81/86/87/91  Minetti              10.00    0.00    10.00    27.27    10.00    0.00    10.00   27
/93/96
1986/89/91/97    Banco Roberts-        10.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0
AL
1987            BGN-TBR                  .07    0.00    0.00      0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0
1987/89         BGN-Bolland             .09    0.00    0.00       0.00     .09    0.00    0.00    0
1987/89/90/96/97  Terminal 6           18.513    0.00    0.00    17.87   17.23    0.00    0.00   16
1987/92         BRLP                    7.53    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1988/93         Bunge y Born            2.66    0.00    0.00    20.05    2.66    0.00    0.00   20
1989            BGN-Algodonera          .11    0.00    0.00       0.00     .11    0.00    0.00    0
1989            BGN-Ferrum              .33    0.00    0.00       0.00     .33    0.00    0.00    0
1989            BGN-                     .05    0.00    0.00      0.00     .05    0.00    0.00    0
FRIGOTOBA
1989            BGN-Interpack           .10    0.00    0.00       0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0
1989            BGN-Parafina            .25    0.00    0.00       0.00     .25    0.00    0.00    0
1989            BGN-Willmor              .28    0.00    0.00      0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0
1989/96         Banco Frances           4.31    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.31    0.00    0.00    0
1990            CIP                     0.00     .08    0.00      0.00    0.00     .08    0.00    0
1990/94         Petroken               19.39    0.00    5.00      3.65    19.39    0.00    5.00    3
1991            BCA                     .39    0.00    0.00        .50     .39    0.00    0.00
1992            FEPSA                   6.40    0.00    0.00      4.40    6.40    0.00    0.00    4
1992            Oleaginosa Oeste        4.58    0.00    5.00      5.60    4.58    0.00    5.00    5
1992            Rioplatense             5.33    1.00    0.00      1.67    5.33     1.00    0.00    1
1992            San Jorge               0.00   27.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1992/93/96      Malteria Pampa         10.59    0.00    1.00      7.84   10.59    0.00     1.00    7
1992/95         Bridas                 32.26    0.00    0.00    51.38   32.26    0.00    0.00   51
1993            Argentina Equity        0.00    4.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0
1993            Nuevo Central           5.00    3.00    0.00      7.50    5.00    3.00    0.00    7
1993            Yacylec                 7.15    5.04    0.00    18.96    7.15    5.04    0.00   18
1993/94         Molinos                 0.00    5.55    0.00      0.00    0.00     5.55    0.00    0
1994            Aceitera Chabas         0.00    3.10    0.00      0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0
1994            Aceitera General       12.50    6.90    0.00      0.00    12.50    6.90    0.00    0
1994            BGN                    12.00    0.00    3.00      0.00    12.00    0.00    3.00    0
1994            LBAR                    0.00    1.17    0.00      0.00    0.00     1.06    0.00    0
1994            LBAV                    0.00    3.62    0.00      0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00    0
1994            Quilmes                10.28    0.00    0.00      7.50   10.28    0.00    0.00    7
1994/95         EDENOR                 14.63    0.00    15.00    23.50    14.63    0.00    15.00   23
1994/95/96      Aguas                  66.85    7.00    0.00   198.61   66.85    7.00    0.00  198
1994/95/97      La Maxima               0.00   16.49    1.90      0.00    0.00   14.22     1.86    0



Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval      Company          Loan      Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Par
1995            Banco Roberts          0.00    0.00   20.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0
1995            CEPA                  10.33    0.00    0.00      1.80   10.33    0.00    0.00     ;
1995            Mastellone             0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1995            Nahuelsat             25.00    5.00    0.00      0.00   25.00    5.00    0.00    0
1995            SanCor                16.25    0.00   20.00    18.00   16.25    0.00   20.00   18
1995            Socma                 16.67    0.00    0.00    40.00    16.67    0.00    0.00   40
1995            SIDECO                 0.00   15.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0
1995            Terminales Port.       8.50    2.00    0.00      0.00    8.50    2.00    0.00    0
1995            TowerFund              0.00   15.73    0.00      0.00    0.00   11.04    0.00    0
1995            Tower Fund Mgr         0.00      .14    0.00     0.00    0.00      .06    0.00    0
1995/97         Kleppe/Caldero        10.93    0.00    0.00      0.00    8.93    0.00    0.00    0
1996            Banco Galicia         30.00    0.00    0.00   200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00  200
1996            Bansud                25.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.90    0.00    0.00    0
1996            Brahma - ARG          17.07    0.00    0.00    26.40   17.07    0.00    0.00   26
1996            CAPSA                 12.00    0.00    5.00    33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00   33
1996            Grunbaum               6.50    0.00    2.00      4.17    6.50    0.00    2.00    4
1996            MBA                    0.00     .16    0.00      0.00    0.00     .16    0.00    0
1996            Neuquen Basin          0.00   26.40    0.00      0.00    0.00   22.82    0.00    0
1996            Refisan               20.00    0.00    0.00    27.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   27
1996            Transconor            24.90    0.00   20.00   205.72   24.90    0.00   20.00  205
1996            Zanon                 12.83    0.00    6.00      0.00   12.83    0.00    6.00    0
1997            FRIAR                 10.00    0.00    2.50      7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7
1997            Guipeba               15.00    0.00    5.00      0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00    0
1997            Milkaut                9.38    0.00   10.00      4.50    9.38    0.00   10.00    4
1997            T61                   10.00    0.00    5.00    30.00   10.00    0.00    5.00   30
1997            Vicentin              25.00    0.00    0.00    10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   10
1997/98         Suquia                35.00    0.00   10.00    25.00   35.00    0.00   10.00   25
1998            AUTCL                 12.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1998            F.V. S.A.             12.00    0.00    4.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1998            FAID                   0.00    5.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    0
1998            Hospital Privado       9.60    0.00    0.00      0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0
1998            Patagonia              5.00    0.00    1.00      0.00    5.00    0.00    1.00    0
1998            Patagonia Fund         0.00   30.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1998            U.Belgrano             7.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
Total Portfolio:            706.85  205.86  167.77  1,179.29  632.32   135.88  163.73  1,13
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic
1999                ACINDAR EXPN         50.00   TY.00   0.00  25.00
1997                ARGIE MAE             0.00    .40   0.00  65.00
1993                FEPSA (II)            0.00   0.00   0.00   4.00
1998                HOSPITAL              1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
PRIVADO
1998                MERCANTIL ARG.   20.00   0.00   15.00   0.00
1999                MINETTI-ANDINO    30.00    0.00   14.00  70.00



1999                 S.A. SAN MIGUEL    12.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                 SUQUIA CL II           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 TGN II BLINC           0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998                 U.BELGRANO            15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        133.1    .40   29.00   174.0



Annex 10
Argentina at a glance                                                              919199
LatIn    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-    r
Argentina   & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
1991
Population, mid-year (milions)                     36.1       502       588                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, i3S$)                8,970      3,940    4,860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ bilions)                     324.1     1,978    2,862              1
Averge annual growth, 199246                                                     |
Population (%)                                        1.3       1.6      1.4
Labor force                                           2.2       2.3      2.0    [GNP           *                  Gross
per                  -          rmary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaliable, 1992498)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (1 of population below national poverty line)
Urban populabon (% of total population)               89        75        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      73        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live lts)                 22        32        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             2         a         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of popufation)                6S        75        79
Ilteracy (% of population age 15+)                     4        13        1 1    i
Gross primary enrollment (96of schoola gpopulation)  113       113       108         Argenina
Male                                               114         ..       ..              Upper-middle-income grOup
Female                                             113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997     1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$tilions)                            56.8    111.1     292.9    296.1
Gross domestic investmenttGDP               30.9    19.6       194      19.9                     Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            9.6      7.9      10.6     10.4
GrossdomestcsavingslGDP                   33.2      19.9      17.2     17.4
Gross national savingslGDP                 32.5      15.2      15.2     15.1                       T
Current account balancelGDP                 2.0    -3.8       -4.1      -4.9     Domest
Interest paymentslGDP                        1.0      3.3       2.1      21       Doesti                     Investment
Total debtUGDP                              20.2    52.6       42.1     4917     Savings          -|
Total debt servicelexports                  27.4    74.3       54.9     61.9
Present value of debtiGDP                     ..      ..       40.9
Present value of debt/exporls                 .        .      329.0
Indebtedness
197747  1988.98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average-annualg gmwlh)
GDP                                 0.4     4.4      81         3.9      4.2         -Argentina
GNP per capita                     -1.1     3.1      8.7        2.6      3,0               Upper-middle-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services       1.3     8.8     12.0        9.2      4.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   ..      8.1       5.6       5.     40
Industry                                      ..    37.8       29.1     28.7    20
Manufacturing                               ..    27.5       19.5      19.1
Services                                      ..    54.1       65.3     65.6      0
Private consumption                         57.8    75.4       70.7     70.7    -20
General govemment consumption                9.0     4.7       12.1     11.9              -GDI             GDP
Imports of goods and services                7.3     7.6       12.7     12.9
(average annual growth)                 1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agrculture                                   0.8      3.2       0.2      10.9     o -
Industry                                    -1.3     4.3        9.9      3.2    no
Manufacturing                             -1.0      3.6       9.2       1.6    40
Services                                     1.7      4.8       7.7      4.7
Private consumption                           ..     4.0        8.8      4.0 
General govemment consumption                 ..      1.4       3.2     -1.1            93   94               97   98
Gross domesfic investment                   -0.5     8.4       17.7      6.6   -20
Imports of goods and services               -1.3    21.0       26.6      8.4                 xports   -*mports
Gross national product                       0.4      4.5       8.1      3.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977       1987      1997      1998      Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                              30
Consumerpnces                                 176.0       169.2       0.5       0.9    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         159.5       127.8      -0.5      -2.0     10
Govemment finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                      o      93   94   95    9        97    9
Current revenue                                   ..       15.0      18.7      18.9    -itl
Current budget balance                            ..       -3.0      -OA       -0.3             -GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        -6.4      -1.5      -1.4
TRADE
(LIS$ millions)                                1977       1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (US$ mililons)
Total exports (fob)                               ..      6,360    26,430   26,221       .000
Food                                            ..       744      3,007     3,056
Meat                                            ..        655      1,025      836     30,00T
Manufactures                                    ..      3,661   8,335  8,543                                          J
Total imports (cif)                               ..      5820    30,450    31,437      290101*
Food                                            ..         ..         ..       ..   *o,coo                      _         -10000
Fuel and energy                                 ..  653  967  852    ciiilL
Capital goods                                   ..       973    14,823    15,587 o
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..         81        102       97             92  93  94  95  96  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..         82        106       105    |         rExports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                         .        99         97        93
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977       1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio 1[%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and servtces                 6,588       8,134    30,940   30,822                _
Imports of goods and services                 4,712       7,627    37,241    38,326
Resource balance                              1,876        507    -6,301    -7,504
Net income                                     -781     -4,738     -6,171    -7,614
Net current transfers                            31           -   436   388 8                III'E                    II
Current account balance                       1,126      -4,239   -12,036   -14,730     4
Financing items (net)                           719       2,070    15,309    18,168
Changes in net reserves                       -1.845      2.169     -3,273    -3,438    .3
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milDions)           ..       3,734    22,482   22,922
Conversion rate (DEC, kocalWUSS)            5.O0E-9    2.10E4         1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977       1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                          ComposItlon of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         11,445    358458   123,221   148,033                         A: 7,188
IBRD                                          343      2,146      5,494     7,188
IDA                                             0          0          0        0            G:31,143               5
Totaldebtservice                              1,849       6,244    19,969    18,106
IBRD                                           46        224        635      725                                 _  .
IDA                                             0          0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 0          0         27       26               .
Official ceditors                             43        664       -110      549
Private creditors                             384        940    10,954      8,682
Foreign direct investment                     144        -19      3,569     2,382
Portfolio equity                                0          0        214      -986                         F: 91.427
Wordd Bank program                                                                      A - IBRD                      E- Blateral
Commitments                                   205        639      1,220     3,815     8-IDA      D- Other multilateral  F- Prvate
Disbursements                                  20        795        797     2,029     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Principal repayments                           20        133        299      350
Net flows                                       0        662        498     1,678
Interest payments                              26         91        335      375
Net transfers                                 -26        571        163     1,303
Development Economics                                                                                                      919199






I26AP SECTION



IBRD 30412
-20~                                                                                                                                                    20-
-20  <   j             BOLIVIA                   t           6                                                        0                         0
j                y                  ar PARAGUAY '
(~Scm Salvadlor   .                                                   B      A      I
J   @/ ?+or  y ^.@ f o                                   t  X    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L
uajuiy               0 i o, 
i   /               t3~~~Salta    f'        N -   - 
r              ,,                  ~~~~~~~~~Formosad
D ,TudUm6n            CHA-.
TU,   '    " 'Q MAN'                Re.,stenc   i "                ,)
'T ')    >z  @  /SANT1AGO           istencia         Posodas r`f4
'   /_ e'    0Santiago del lstero                ___orrientes        ',r
r  f    ~N'<o4v0Catanavrcast.o                         / C        :rj
LU                            macESTEiBO
.J     ? La. Rioia                                  i             /
', I                 0 >  R.OJ hv ,' ?0N SANTA
-30.                    SAN    N230'-
u r SUA CN,                              d iE"
*JU, 6rda   Santa             '
eSa, iua~~               1`6Fe  VParan6  i
(        'SsanJuan _          RDO A.Fe              r P T E OS
Mendoza '    San;                            BUOS
G                                         URUGUAYD
'   i' JS'-    XBoenos Aires
~LUIS'
-9~~~~/ N D O Z                         -,'
?       JE,NDOZA 
JBUENOS
A           -      Santa Rosa     f
[LA                  AiRES
*        ' l,       P,4A M PA
''NEUDUN,
\  Neuqueno,
ARGENTINA
,(,    (oWr                     5ed,ifJ iHEALTH INSURANCE
FOR THE POOR PROJECT
'I axE  >  ,                / ~~~Rawson
~-< ,   c   !  , B U T
0'     PROVINCE CAPITALS
(R      NATIONAL CAPITAL
e4/q       \>                                                                     -  - -    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~                A~T
a          CB <, -R UZ W:                    FAi LKLAND ISIANDCS
11M A L \/INS)50
st  t   oGcflegos               >-9><S tg?,                      0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
Vir A\  *    ,s                 Ac DSPUTE CONCEANtAG ScV3Ef  OVER VI-EV
/' 5X>.           IS!AN'AS  EVSVT5T _VEThVVE A!VG&V'INA          0      100      200     300     400 Miles
MI-7T SE             W ATANTS.
Ushuc, fQr~This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
-      f r,.  IFBAR2A                            on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group, any
X L  DE gI  iFOUEGO                          iudgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
701                                                    60'                                                     50
AUGUST 1999



