d  *  X
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
tZ ZOTO- 7  -L)
Report No. 7443-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT 'UDAN RCAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 14, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official currency unit in the Sudan is the Sudanese Pound.
Official Rate        US$1.00 = £Sd. 4.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter                        =        3.28 Feet  (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)               =        0.62 Miles (mi)
1 Square Kilometer (km2)       =        0.386 Square mile (sq. mi)
1 Kilogram (kg)                =        2.2 Pounds (lbs)
1 Metric ton (ton)             =        2,205 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AADT        Average Annual Daily Traffic
CAD         Civil Aviation Department
CBR         California Bearing Ratio
ESA         Equivalent Standard Axle
HOIS        Highway Organization and Investment Study
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbar
MHCPW       Ministry of Housing, Construction and Public Works
MFEP        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOT         Ministry of Transport
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
ODA         Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PMS         Pavement Management System
PPU         Project Planning Unit, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
RCC         Revolutionary Command Council
RBPC        Road and Bridges Public Corporation
RERP        Railways Emergency Recovery Program
RTC         River Transport Corporation
SAC         Sudan Airways Corporation
SPC         Sea Ports Corporation
SRC         Sudan Railways Corporation
USAID       U.S. Agency for International Development
VOC         Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
Government July 1 - June 30
RBPC        July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
Khartoum - Port Sudan Road Rehabilitation Project
Staff ApPraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................... iv
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................................................ 1
A.  Country Background and Economic Setting ......................... 1
B.  The Transport System ............................................ 2
C.  Role of Transport in the Economy ................................ 5
D.  Government Policy and Transport Issues .......................... 6
E.  Past Bank Group Transport Sector Operations .................... 10
F.  Bank Strategy .................................................. 12
G.  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ........................... 12
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .............................................. 13
A.  The Network .................................................... 13
B. The Highway Authority - The Roads & Bridges Public Corporation.17
C.  Axle Load Regulation and Road Safety ........................... 25
D.  Road Transport ................................................ 26
tIII  THE PROJECT.29
ITI. TEPOCT........................................................ 2
A.  Project Origin and Preparation ............................ ._29
B. Project Objectives ......                                                         31
C. Project Description ......                                                        31
D. Cost Estimates ......                                                             _'
E. Financing ......                                                                  37
F. Implementation ......                                                             38
G. Procurement ......                                                                38
H. Disbursements ......                                                              39
I.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements ......                           41
3.  Environmental Aspects .......................................... 42
IV. EC,ONOMIC EVALUATION ......                                                           43
A. General ......                                                                    42
B. Traffic on Khartoum-Port Sudan Road ......                                        43
C. Economic Analysis ......                                                          44
D. Risks .................                                                          ;46
V. RECOMMENDATIONS ....................... 48
This report was prepared on the basis of missions in March and June 1988 by
Jane E. M. Holt (Mission Leader and Sr. Financial Analyst), Eduard Irgens
(Highway Engineer) and Djordje Jovanovic (Sr. Transport Economist). Project
preparation was financed by an IDA-administered grant from the Kingdom of
Norway to the Republic of Sudan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEX I - Tables
Table 2.1          Existing Constructed Roads
Table 2.2          Roads Under Construction or Proposed for Construction
Table 2.3          Project Ranking by NPV
Table 2.4          Highway Investment Program
Table 2.5          Revenue Collection from the Road Sector
Table 2.6          Road Traffic Accidents in Sudan, 1973-83
Table 2.7          Fuel Supply and Vehicle Fleet
Table 3.1          Implementation Schedule
ANNEX II - FIGURES
Figure 2.1         Residual Life (1986) in ESA8O and in Years
Figure 2.2         RBPC Organization Chart
ANNEX III           RBPC Equipment Inventory
ANNEX IV            Institutional Support for RBPC -
Outlined Terms of Reference
ANNEX V             Terms of Reference for the Development of an
Axle Load Control System
ANNEX VI            Rescue Equipment
ANNEX VII          Outlined Terms of Reference for the Development and
Implementation of a Pavement Management System
ANNEX VIII         Agreed Action Plans for Implementation of a Road
Classification System and RBPC Organizational Changes
IBRD Map Number 21991



- iii-
DOCUMENTS IN THE FILE
1.   Highway Organization and Investment Study (HOIS), Final Report of
September 1987, Norconsult.
2.   Technical and Economic Feasibility Study for Khartoum - Wad Medani
Road Corridor (The Global Study), Final Report by Dar Al ilandasah.
3.   Road Toll Feasibility Study by Transport and Communications Section
of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, July 1987.
4.   Port Sudan Road.  Final ReRort Phase I, Norconsult and Newtech,
December 1988.
5.   Port Sudan Road.  Draft Final Report Phase I.  Revised section on
Bridges, Norconsult, October 198S.
6.   Port Sudan Road Rehabilitation Project - Detailed Engineering and
Final Bidding Documents, Norconsult and Newtech, September 1989.
7.   Sudan TraL1sport Study, 1974.
8.   Road Maintenance Programme, Final Report, Louis Berger International
Inc., September 1979.
9.   Feeder Road Master Plan, Norconsult A/S, 1979
10.   Transport Statistical Bulletin 1980/81 - Transport and Communication
Section, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, March 1982.
11.   Projects Seeking Financing Report (Project Identification) -
Transport and Communications Sector, Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, May 1982.
12.   Assessment of Past Performance 1977-81, Transport and Communications
- Transport and Communications Sector, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, April 1982.
13.   Impact of Domestic Petroleum Production on the Transport in the
Sudan, Transport and Communications Sector, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, November 1981,



- iv -
SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                   The Republic of Sudan
Beneficiary:                Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC)
Amount:                     SDR 65.7 Million (US$82.2 Million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard with 40 years maturity
Project Description:        The Project consists of:
(a) Road Construction: reconstruction of 70 km
and overlay of about 500 km of
deteriorating sections of the Khartoum-Port
Sudan Road that would otherwise be
candidates for costly reconstruction in a
few years; repairs to one hundred or so
bridges along the road; construction
supervision; completion of a road
construction component under the Second
Highways Project.
(b) Axle Load Control System: implementation
of an Axle Load Control System, including
provision of technical assistance and
training, rescue vehicles and data
processing equipment, construction and
equipping of permanent and mobile
weighbridges.
(c) Pavement Management System: implementation
of a Pavement Management System including
provision of technical assisLance and
training.
(d) Institutional Support for RBPC:
continuation of technical assistance and
training begun in previous proJects to
support RBPC's maintenance capability and
general institutional development.



Benefits:                   The main benefits from the road rehabilitatiun
will be savings in vehicle operating costs.
The Government will also benefit by avoiding
otherwise even costlier road reconstruction and
by implementing the Project's institutional
measures. Additional benefits will result from
time savings and improved road safety but they
are difficult to quantify. The major direct
beneficiaries of the reduced transport costs and
improved road safety will be truck and bus
owners/operators and passenger car owners. The
Axle Load Control System will reduce overloading
and prevent premature deterioration of the
reconstructed road. The Pavement Management
System will enable RBPC and Government to better
monitor and plan maintenance for its paved Load
system.
Riskss                      The major risk of the Project relates to the
institutional measures. The Axle Load Control
System may not be successful due to possible
opposition from road transport users, failure of
RBPC and the Police to carry out fully the
proposed system, or general socic-behavioral
factors. Similarly, RBPC's implementation of
the Pavement Management System may not be
successful because of possible organizational
and managerial weaknesses. These risks are
reduced by the fact that technical assistance
begun under the Highways III Project will be
continued under the Project to provide
institutional support and by the recognized need
for these measures and the strong commitments
given both by RBPC and Government to implement
them.
Proiect Financing Plan:    GOS           US$ 16.1 Million
IDA         US$ 82.2 Million
KfW         US$ 16.1 Million
US$114.4 Million
Economic Rate of Returns   36Z
President Report:           Report No. P-4898-SU, Dated November 1, 1989
Mans                         No. IBRD 21991



- vi -
Estimated Costs a/                                  LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
----(US$ Million)----
Road Construction                                   12.0     73.5    85.5
Khartoum-Port Sudan Road Rehabilitation        11.1      55.7    66.8
Constraction Supervision                        0.9       2.2      3.1
Completion of Jebel Aulia - Ed Dueim
Road Construction                             0.0      15.6    15.6
Implementation of an Axle Load Control Syetem        0.3      2.7      3.0
Construction of weighbridges                    0.3       0.7     1.0
Weighbridge Equipment                           0.0       0.6      0.6
Technical Assistance and Training               0.0       0.4     0.4
Road Safety and Rescue Equipment                0.0       1.0     1.0
Implementation of a Pavement Management System    0.0         0.8      0.8
Equipment                                       0.0       0.2     0.2
Technical Assistance & Training                 0.0       0.6     0.6
Institutional Support for RBPC                       0.0      1.4      1.4
Technical Assistance                            0.0       1.2     1.2
Training                                        0.0       0.2     0.2
BASE COST                                           12.3     78.2    90.5
Contingencies                                        3.8     20.1    23.9
Physical Contingencies                          1.4       7.7     9.1
Price Contingencies                             2.4      12.4    14.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 16.1     98.3   114.4
a/ Net of duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:                                    LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
----(US$ Million)----
Government                                          16.1      0.0    16.1
KfW                                                  0.0     16.1    16.1
IDA                                                  0.0     82.2    82.2
TOTAL                                     16.1     98.3   114.4



- vii -
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
PROJECT                     PROCUREMENT METHOD                       TOTAL COST
ICe            LCB           OTHER
Total   IDA   Total   IDA   Total   IDA  Total   IDA
-------------------------------------------------------------------___--------__-------
CIVIL WORKS
Khartoum-Port Sudan Road
Rehabilitation                88.1  665.                                8k.1  58.6
Construction of
Weigh-bridges                  1.8   0.7                                 1.8    0.7
Completion of Jebel Aulia-
Ed Dueim Road Construction   0.0    0.0                 156.   1656   156.8  1S.8
EQUIPMENT
Axle Load Control System -
Weighbridges and Equipment   2.0    2.0   0.1   0.1                    2.1   2.1
Pavement Management System -
Equipment                    0.8    0.8                                0.8   0.8
CONSULTANT SERVICES ond TRAINING
Construction Supervision                                   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1
Axle Load Control System -
TA and Training                                          1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2
Pavement Management System -
TA and Trining                                           0.6    0.8   0.8    0.8
Institutional Support for RBPC
TA and Training                                          1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-------
TOTAL                        91.7  68.7   0.1   0.1  22.6   8.1  114.4  82.2
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------..--- -----
3. Disbursements
3.1        Except for con.sultant services and training,  of which most costs
are foreign, the Credit will be disbursed against foreign cost only; the
Government will be funding local costs. The Credit will be disbursed as
follows:
AMOUNT
(USl=TTTTon)
A.  Civil Works                              100% of Foreign Expenditures
B. Equipment and spare parts                 100X of Foreign Expenditures
C. Consultant Services and Training          100X of Total Expenditures
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
IDA FISCAL YEAR
90         91         92         93          94
-------------US$ million…-------------
IDA Credit
Annual                            25.2       19.8       27.0        9.0        1.2
Cumulative                        25.2       45.0       72          81         82.2



SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Country Background and Economic Setting
1.0i     With an area of 2.5 million (m) square kilometers, Sudan is the
largest country in Africa with a population of about 23 m and a per capita
GNP in 1988 of US$330. Nearly one-third of the land is desert or semi-
desert and much of the country is sparsely populated. About two-thirds of
the land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production. The economy is
heavily dependent on exports of cotton, livestock, groundnuts, sesame dnd
gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small, and the
country's infrastructure is weak.
1.02     Sudan currently faces an extremely difficult economic situation,
which is the consequence of a ciril war and econoric mismanagement,
aggravated by three years of drought and a major flood in 1988. Economic
mismanagement stems from controls on the private sector, born out of
mistrust of market mechanisms and an over-extended and inefficient public
sector.
1.03     Economic performance over the past decade has been poor.  GDP grew
by only 1 percent per annum over this period. As a result, per capita
income and consumption fell to levels well below those prevailing in the
early 1970's. Agriculture grew at barely one-half of one percent per
annum. Poverty and malnutrition are now widespread. Traditional food
security structures and the health care delivery system have virtually
collapsed. Severe shortages of essential production inputs and consunier
goods are commonplace. Investment, as a proportion of GDP, has decreased
significantly. Infrastructure is in a serious state of disrepair.
National savings have declined sharply, with public savings substantially
negative throughout the decade. The financing of the budget deficits
(averaging about 11 percent of GDP since the beginning of the 1980's) and
of large losses of parastatals has placed severe demands on the banking
system and led to rapid monetery expansion. This has fueled levels of
inflation between 25 and 45 percent per annum. The real value of imports
and exports has sharply declined. The country has accumLlated a large
foreign debt of around US$12 billion, of which arrears amount to half of
the total.
1.04     Between 19;4 and 1984, the Government entered into a series of
agreements with the IMF, and received policy-based IDA credits in 1980 and
1983. These attempted reforms generally failed because of inability to
sustain demand management measures. Nevertheless, in 1983, there was a
short-lived success in carrying out adjustment measures, including a
substantial devaluation. Unfortunately, this success faded in 1984 amid
the political turmoil that marked the last days of the Nimeiri Government.
In October 1987, the Government, with IMF and Bank Group assistance,
adopted a one-year program as a prelude to comprehensive economic policy



- 2 -
reforms. The Government unified the exchange rates to a more realistic
level and adopted fiscal and monetary measures to restrain the budget
deficit and inflation. A more comprehensive structural adjustment program,
featuring deregulation of the private sector, parastatal sector reforms,
and tax reforms was formulated by the Government. In 1988, however,
implementation was interrupted, firstly by the heavy rains and floods in
August which caused widespread disruption in the economy and, thereafter,
by political turmoil as a result of disagreement among members of the
coalition government over the approach to seeking an end to the civil war.
In June 1989, the coalition government was overthrown in a military coup
led by Lt-General Omar Hassan Ahmad Al Bashir who has appointed a
Revolutionary Command Council (RCC) and a Cabinet of Ministers to run the
affairs of the country.
B. The Transvort System
1.05     Sudan's transport system is inadequate for the largest country in
Africa; with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, Sudan's 20,000 km of
roads (only 2,335 km of which are paved) and 4,800 km railway network
average only 8 km of road and 1.9 km of rail per thousand square
kilometers. Transport is sparse because a harsh climate and long distances
between major markets make difficult the provision of inexpensive,
efficient and reliable surface transport. Rail and road systems cross hot,
aiid deserts in the north, northeast and central zones and skirt swamps in
the south. Sudan also has 3,000 km of waterways but in practice the
potentially cheap river transport of the Nile is little used; in the north
the Nile is repeatedly interrupted by unnavigable rapids, while in the
south the White Nile meanders through the Sudd, a vast swamp with
continually shifting channels. Trarsportation in the west is mostly
rudimentary, depending almost entirely on unpaved roads and desert tracks
and on two old, poorly maintained, rail branch lines although several new
road projects in the west are under development. An 850 km pipeline
between Port Sudan and Khartoum and about 20 airports supplement surface
transport.
1.06     The major transport corridor is between Port Sudan on the Red Sea
and Khartoum, the capital, 787 km by rail, 1,182 km by road and 850 km by
pipeline. The corridor handles most of land transport and carries imports
and exports from and to the Port. Collectively, the three modes transport
about 4.6 million tons annually. The majority of this traffic, over 90%,
is carried over the road, despite its being nearly 40% longer than its rail
competitor. The railway traverses a straight route through the desert from
the coast to Khartoum while the highway passes through the most populated
and economically active areas of the country, swinging south from Port
Sudan to Gedaref before turning westwards toward Khartoum. Due to severe
overloading and lack of proper maintenance, sections of this road are now
experiencing severe surface and base failure some of which, if not repaired
soon, will break-up completely within a year and others will become
candidates for reconstruction rather than resealing/overlay. Without
reconstruction, unpaved detours around broken sections will proliferate and
vehicle operating costs and transit time will increase dramatically.
Rehabilitation of this vital transport link is thus urgently needed and is
the focus of the proposed Project.



- 3 -
1.07     As the road conditions deteriorate, transit times and vehicle
operating costs will increase. Such a development is unfortunate; road
transport is already costly because of Sudan's dependency on imports for
petroleum, the high rate of wear and tear these vehicles experience in
Sudan, as well as shortages of fuel, spare parts and tires, and lack of
appropriate repair facilities. The trucking industry is operated
relatively *fficiently by owner-operators and several privately owned large
companies but is beginning to decline because of these handicaps. Demand
for road transport remains strong, however; rail competition is weak.
Although the rail system is extensive and has a significant advantage in
distance over road transport, reliability is low, transit time excessive
and locomotive and wagon availability sporadic. Substandard management and
operations together with lack of spare parts are largely responsible for
the decline. Government policies that favor road transport have also
contributed to the imbalance of modes.
Highways
1.08     The highway sector is discussed in more detail in Chapter II.
Railways
1.09     Sudan's 4800 km railway system is the largest in Africa with the
main route extending from Port Sudan via Atbara to Khartoum, with an
alternate link between the port and Sennar via Kassala. The Sudan Railways
Corporation (SRC) is a parastatal organization reporting to the Minister of
Transport and Communications (MOTC). SRC's facilities are old; much of the
track is in poor condition, especially in the west, and needs renewal; and
lack of spare parts affects virtually every facet of rail operations.
Night time signalling is almost non-existent due to lack of bulbs and
batteries; and the telecommunications system is subject to frequent
breakdowns. Annual traffic carried by the rail has declined from over 3.0
million tons in tne early 1970's to about 600,000 tons in 1988.
1.10     To arrest further financial deterioration, improve utilization of
existing capacity and strengthen and restructure SRC so it can operate more
commercially and move toward self-sufficiency, IDA and other donors (AfDB,
EEC, the Government of the Netherlands, KfW and ODA) are implementing a
US$99.4 Railways Emergency Recovery Project (RERP) (Credit 1894-SU, signed
June 10, 1988) to finance a team of technical and managerial experts,
training, urgently needed locomotive spare parts, essential equipment and
other spares and some emergency track repairs. Government changed SRC's
top management in mid 1987. The new management's reform program has begun
to be implemented and SRC's operations are improving.
Pipeline
1.11     Fuel (diesel) is primarily transported between Port Sudan and
Khartoum by a pipeline 850 km long which was opened in 1977. In 1986/87
the pipeline transported over 480,000 tons of white fuel (gasoline, diesel
fuel). The pipeline is presently operating at about 60? of design capacity
because of low pumping power; 6 pumping stations are now in operation.
Meanwhile, an increasing amount of fuel (600,000 tons in 1986) is moving by
more expensive road transport.



-4-
Ports
1.12     Sudan has only one major seaport, Port Sudan, located on the Red
Sea about 1,180 km by road from Khartoum. Run by a parastatal, the Sea
Ports Corporation (SPC) has eleven general berths on its north side and
four specialized berths on its south side for grain, containers, roll on-
roll off and petroleum. Total throughput has ranged from 4.2 to 4.6
million tons over the last three years. Theoretical capacity is higher
although inefficiency reduces capacity and produces congestion. SPC is
overstaffed, its overall productivity is less than 200 tons per employee
per year, a figure low by any standard. Ships have waited at anchor, some
more than 15 days. Cargo can wait for two to three weeks on the quay
before it is nofficially" received by the Port authorities. SPC has had
severe maintenance difficulties resulting from inadequate procurement
procedures for spare parts and lack of qualified maintenance staff.
Despite the need to use its resources for spare parts and equipment to
improve operational productivity, SPC has recently invested in port
facilities nearby with no economic justification. The Port was run for
some time by acting officials in its top two positions, but a new permanent
manager was appointed in November, 1988, in fulf_llment of a commitment
given within the framework of the Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project
(Credit 2011-SU), Government is now committed to strengthening SPC's
management and has reinstated a Chairman of the Board who had been on
administrative leave. The Bank is currently preparing a Third Port Project
that will support implementation of a corporate plan, improvement of
financial management, construction of safe handling facilities for
petroleum products, provision of cargo handling equipment and improvement
of the traffic facilitation process.
River Transport
1.13     River transport is used on the Kosti-Malakal-Juba (1,450 km) and
the Karima-Dongola (290 km) sections of the Nile system but currently
accounts for only 1Z of total freight traffic in the country and lately,
has been operating only as far as Malakal (500 km) due to security
problems. Nonetheless, donors have increasingly turned to river transport
to ship grain to food-starved populations in strife-torn areas of the
South. Most barges and tugs are owned and operated by a Government
parastatal, the River Transport Corporation (RTC), but a few private
operators also provide service. Use of river transport is constrained by
hostilities in the southern part of the country as well as by adverse
physical conditions, such as shallow water during the 3-4 low-water months,
unnavigable rapids in the north, a huge swamp in the south, water hyacinth
encroachment, inadequate berthing and cargo handling facilities and by the
inefficient services of the RTC for traffic other than oil products and
food which receive priority. Also, private operators complain that RTC
does not permit them access to RTC's docks despite legislation to the
contrary, a problem the new Minister of Transport has agreed to address.
Civil Aviation
1.1;     Sudan has about 20 airports, of which only three are paved and
only one, Khartoum, is classified as an international airport that can take
wide-body aircrafts in all-weather conditions. Upgrading of electronic
landing aids and installation of navigational aids and telecommunication3



- 5 -
equipment for major regional routes was completed two years ago. The
Government has plans to construct new airports at Malakal, Wau and Nyala,
and upgrade facilities at El Obeid. Air traffic control and navigational
communications within Sudan are the responsibility of the Civil Aviation
Department (CAD) which, although part of the Ministry of Defense, functions
as a civilian department. Sudan's domestic air traffic it handled nearly
exclusively by the Sudan Airways Corporation (SAC), using Khartoum as its
hub; in 1987 SAC owned 6 jets (4 Boeing 707 and 2 Boeing 737) and three
Fokker 27.
C. Role of Transport in the Economy
1.15     Inadequate facilities and high transport costs are serious
problems in Sudan and have slowed development of major sectors of the
economy, hampered drought relief, flood emergency measures, and more
recently, delivery of food to food-starved populations in the South, and
made difficult the export of harvested crops, particularly in the West. In
addition tr" its effect on agriculture, the inadequacy of Sudan's
transportation infrastructure is also cited as a major reason why Sudan's
manufacturing sector has not been able to reach acceptable levels of
capacity utilization, efficiency and profitability.
1.16     Economic recovery in Sudan depends upon increasing agricultural
production as well as upon reducing the costs and improving the timely
availability of imports. These objectives, in turn, depend upon the
provision of reliable, efficient transport. Geographic factors make
transport a particularly critical component to development. The country is
vast and the major centers of population are far from Sudan's only real
connection with the outside world: Port Sudan. Khartoum is 800 km, by
rail, and nearly 1200 km by road, inland; the southwestern agricultural
areas, with substantial economic potential are another 1000 km from
Khartoum. Productive areas in the El Gedaref and eastern areas of the
country are more than 800 km south of Port Sudan. Bordering Ethiopia,
these areas, and those further south, have little alternative to using Port
Sudan. Virtually, all imports and exports, therefore, must travel at least
1,000 km and more likely, close to 2,000 km.
1.17     Most of this traffic, 4.6 million tons of imports and exports in
1986, travels on the Khartoum-Port Sudan road; the 1986 transport split was
rail 10%, pipeline 14% and road 75Z, including most exports, all cotton and
all molasses, as well as the majority of imports, including 600,000 tons of
petroleum (vs. 194,000 tons for rail) and 683,000 tons of flour and wheat
(vs. 115,000 tons for rail), and all containers. Avoiding the complete
break-up of some sections of the Khartoum-Port Sudan road, prolonging its
life and protecting the investment of other sections otherwise in jeopardy
is thus essential to Sudan's existence as well as economic recovery. Even
if the RERP is successful in raising the level of traffic carried by SRC,
it is unlikely that rail will ever recapture more than 302 of the total
market. Moreover, it will take some time for SRC to improve. The present
volume of tonnage to be moved to and from Port Sudan is sufficient to
justify rehabilitation of both road and rail. In any case, the road is,
and is likely to remain, Sudan's lifeline and most critical transport link



- 6 -
in the entire country for the medium term. In the lcnger term it is likely
that a newer and more direct route will be built from Khartoum to Port
Sudan, through the desert via Atbara, but this development is at least ten
years in the future. From an economic viewpoint, Loth rail and road
investments are justified.
D. Government Policy and Transport Issues
1.18     Prior to June 30, 1989 when the Revolutionary Command Council came
into power, Government's transport policy was to achieve an optimal
intermodal mix that provides consumer-oriented service at the least cost to
the nation. The transport policy was to be enforced through appropriate
measures with respect to investment, pricing, energy, regulation,
coordination and organization. The carrying out of these policies,
however, has been handicapped by managerial and institutional weaknesses in
Sudan's various transport entities, including transport planning, and by
GOS policies to subsidize fuel, to protect Sudan's domestic tire and
battery production and to allow overstaffing of parastatals. The RCC has
not yet issued a specific transport policy statement but its appointments
in the transport sector consist of individuals with managerial and
operational experience in the sector. The transport issues to be addressed
by the new Government are described below.
Public Finance
1.19     Capital Expenditures.  Historically, investment decisions by GOS
reflect the importance Government gives transport in Sudan's economic
development.1 Out of the government Development Budget for 1985/86 -
1986/87 of £Sd 2.28 billion, 21Z was envisaged for the sector, which
compares favorably with transport's share in other countries in the region.
Total investments tentatively proposed for the transport sector in the four
year period 1988/89 - 1991/92 are £Sd 2.38 billion (US$ 528 million at the
official exchange rate), or 14Z of the total investment in the country.2
1.20     Within this budget, Government's main priority is to finance
expansion of its inadequate transport system. Since trucks handle most
transport even without paved roads, Government is concentrating on
expanding its highway network. To this end Government is now focussing on
constructing road links along a north-south and east-west axis so as to
enable transport from one end of the country to the other in at least two
directions (para. 2.15). Outside the highway sector, Government is
committed to developing port capacity as economic growth demands and to
1/ The sector, moreover, has an important role in the economy and
accounted for about 1OX of GDP in 1984.
2/ Sudan's overall economic situation is so constrained, however, that
budgeted expenditures for transportation do not meet projected needs.
Moreover, rarely do actual expenditures equal those budgeted. During
the period 1977-83, the actual vs. planned expenditure of the transport
and communication sector was only 47Z.



- 7 -
building new port facilities to permit the separate handling of passengers,
livestock and oil imports.  In the railroad sector, Government is trying to
minimize investments to those absolutely necessary to maintain present
operations until ongoing efforts to revitalize railway operations, being
implemented in the RERP, demonstrate whether more substantial
rehabilitation investments will be worthwhile.
1.21     Recurrent Expenditures.  In the highway sector, GOS has been more
concerned with expansion of the network than with the maintenance of
existing facilities or strengthening the highway authority, the Roads and
Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC). Nonetheless Government is committed to
maintaining its investment in highways, as evidenced by the road toll
system that is in place and its willingness to implement the axle load
control system proposed in the Project but RBPC's limited capacity in this
respect has led Government to seek donor assistance for road maintenance as
well as investment. Improving RBPC's maintenance capacity is a focus of
the ongoing Third Highway Project, is to be augmented by the proposed
Project and will be a focus of the upcoming Fourth Highway Project.
Development of a long-term maintenance strategy will be made easier with
the implementation of the proposed Project's Pavement Management System
(PMS). Even with RBPC's present capacity, however, the adequacy of funds
allocated by Government to RBPC for road maintenance is insufficient.
1.22     In the port subsector, after substantial concentration on
improving port operations under the First and Second Port Projects, more
recently Government has pursued investments somewhat at the expense of the
maintenance of cargo handling equipment and facilities already built. As a
consequence, cargo handling equipment was unusable and quays became so
congested that it was difficult to service ships at berths (pari. 1.08).
SPC has agreed to concentrate on improving this record and is now working
with IDA to develop action plans and cargo handling investment requirements
to be implemented under the upcoming Third Port Project. In the railroad
sector, a major focus of the RERP is to enhance preventive maintenance of
locomotive and rehabilitation equipment and facilities long neglected. In
the river transport sector, Government is concentrating on rehabilitating
and maintaining its fleet of ferries, with donor assistance from Germany.
1.23     Cost Recovery.  In principle GOS embraces concepts of cost
recovery in all of the transport sectors. In the highway sector, GOS has
instituted road tolls to raise funds for road maintenance, but the levels
are not sufficient to cover road maintenance needs (para. 2.26).
Government collects other funds from road users, including fuel taxes;
however, none of these funds is earmarked for road maintenance. Thus the
issue is not so much the adequacy of taxation as it is the Ellocation by
Government of funds collected from road users, sufficient to finance
necessary road maintenance. 3
31   A related point is that government vehicles, including those carrying
aid cargo and petroleum, are exempL from the road toll tax. As a great
percentage of the traffic using the road consists of these vehicles,
Government is thus responsible for much of the wearing down of the road
yet has not made adequate provision for maintaining it.



-8-
Pricing
1.24     Transport Pricing.  Pricing of road and rail transport is based on
the concept of cost recovery. Road transport is operated by private owners
and rates are governed by market forces except for transport of Government
cargo which, in the last year, is being carried at rates set by Government.
Rail transport tariffs must be approved by its Board of Directors and,
under the prior Government by the Council of Ministers. Ordinarily, this
approval has been obtained without great delay but tariff increases
proposed by SRC in November of 1988 were delayed by nearly one year.
Fortunately, SRC's proposed tariff increases were recently approved by the
new Government, a process that involved approval by the Minister of Finance
in addition to SRC's Board of Directors. These new tariffs were sorely
needed as SRC has been in a disastrous financial situation ever since
salaries were doubled by Government decree in February 1988. Meanwhile,
SRC has been using its informally granted tariff flexibility to help cover
the gap by entering into contract arrangements directly with customers at
rates higher than the old tariffs.
1.25     Subsidization of Fuel Prices.  GOS's fuel pricing policies have in
the past distorted intermodal competition because they subsidize diesel
fuel to the benefit of road tranbport (para. 2.56). These subsidies need
to be phased out and a system for frequent reviews instituted to ensure
that fuel prices continue to reflect their import costs. The issue is
being discussed with the IMF in a wider context than this Project.
Import Policies
1.26     Tires and Batteries.  Import of tires and batteries has been
severely restricted in Sudan so as to protect domestic production. The
restriction has led to shortages that hamper the efficient operation of the
trucking industry. The situation had been improved with the introduction
of an "own resources" scheme, which allowed the use of privately held
foreign exchange for the importation of a range of products including tires
and batteries, but this scheme has been suspended by the RCC. Lifting
restrictions and reinstatement of an "own resources" scheme are subjects of
discussions between GOS and the IMF.
Sector Management
1.27     Transport Planning.  Transport planning is undertaken by a
transport unit within the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP).
Established with assistance from a planning team under a UNDP financed
project, executed by the Bank, the unit was formed to evaluate investment
proposals by the various transport agencies and make judgments on their
relative merits. The main weakness of the present arrangement is, however,
that the individual agencies presenting proposals to the Finance Ministry
have varying degrees of planning capability. In some cases MFEP undertakes
sub-sectoral planning and feasibility study functions without sufficient
coordination with the agencies involved or with the Ministry of Transport
which has almost no planning resources. Transport planning preferably
should be undertaken by the transport agencies themselves and plans
subsequently assessed in the context of broader economic issues by MDEP.



1.28     RBPC's planning unit is particularly weak (para. 2.32).  Moreover,
as is the case with some of the other sectors, planning of new roads is
directed more by MFEP than RBPC. Assistance to improve RBPC's planning
capacity which is a focus of the ongoing Third Highway Project, will be
enhanced by the Pavement Management System to be implemented in the Project
and will be continued in the Fourth Highway Project.
1.29     The failure to concentrate port investment on critically needed
spare parts, and the failure to ensure access by private barge operators of
RTC's docking facilities and the failure to provide access to foreign
currency to private truckers, reflects the lack of coordination and
overview authority of the MOTC. The upcoming port project includes a
component to support a planning unit in the MOTC with equipment and
technical assistance.
1.30     RBPC's Organization and Legal Framework.  RBPC is legally a public
corporation but in practice has little autonomy and functions like any
other government department (para 2.18). In as much as RBPC is not a
revenue earning entity, GOS may wish to consider making RBPC a "highway
authority" within a ministry. This issue will be considered within the
context of the dialogue on RBPC's reorganization. Whether a corporation or
not, RBPC's operational flexibility is being hampered by limitations on the
level of tenders its General Manager can approve (para. 2.30). Government
has agreed to empower RBPC's Board of Directors to raise the level.
Another issue is that RBPC's jurisdictional maintenance responsibilities
are unclear because legally, the definition of a "national" road is
missing. RBPC needs to develop and incorporate within the legal framework,
therefore, a road classificaticn system (para. 2.04). RBPC's
organizational structure also suffers from a number of problems (para.
2.21). Government presented a draft reorganization plan of RBPC to IDA at
negotiations. Government also agreed to develop a road classification
system and to implement agreed organizational changes according to agreed
action plans (Annex VIII).
Maintenance Hanagement
1.31     Management of existing equipment and infrastructure is an issue
fcr RBPC as well as for other transport entities in Sudan, notably SRC and
RTC. In large measure, lack of skilled management personnel is central to
the problem: thus, technical assistance and training have been key
components of Bank-financed projects in all the transport subsectors. The
PMS and the institutional support for RBPC to be provided in the proposed
Project should augment efforts being made in the ongoing Third Highway
Project to address this issue. Access to foreign exchange is another major
problem, both in the railroad subsector which has been starved of capital
for years and has crippled locomotives and decrepit facilities as a result,
and, more recently, in the trucking sector. Similarly, RBPC needs foreign
exchange, primarily for bitumen, but also for spare parts and equipment.
Until relatively recently RBPC bought these items on the parallel market
but increasing controls by Government over foreign exchange is limiting
this option. The failure of Government to provide foreign exchange to
entities critical to Sudan's economy is the subject of discussion with
Government in contexts broader than this Project.



- 10 -
Axle Load Control
1.32     Heavy overloading contributed substantially to the premature
deterioration of the Khartoum - Port Sudan road to be rehabilitated under
the Project. Yet Sudan does not have an axle load control system in place.
Moreover, the sections of the Road Traffic Act dealing with axle load
limitations arc presently too vague to be enforceable (para 2.43).
Initiation and implementation of a realistic program of axle load control
therefore will be a crucial element in the proposed Project. Government
has prepared draft legislation to clarify these sections and thus set the
stage for effective enforcement (para. 2.45).  It was agreed that
Government: (a) establish, not later than July 1, 1990, axle load limits
acceptable to the Association; (b) take, not later than July 1, 1991, all
measures to enforce such limits, including the implementation of an Axle
Load Control system (para 5.02).
Staffing of Parastatals
1.33     Most of Sudan's transport parastatals are overstaffed and
inefficient. Recent Government policy endorsed efforts by the Sudan
Railways Corporation to reduce staff within the context of the RERP. An
effort was also made to reduce staff of Sudan Airways but Government
reinstated those scheduled to be cut. RBPC is not necessarily overstaffed,
but it is inefficient due to a variety of reasons (para. 2.21), some of
which are being addressed in the ongoing Third Highway Project and some of
which will be addressed in this proposed Project. The Bank group is al&xo
addressing these issues within the framework of a Public Enterprise Project
(Credit 1789-SU) and as part of its dialogue on macroeconomic policy.
E. Previous Bank Group Transport Sector Operations
1.34     The Bank Group has been assisting in the development of modern
transportation modes in Sudan as well as in slowly improving transport
planning since the First Railway Loan in 1958. In transport, the Bank's
strategy is to support the rehabilit&tion of facilities and operating
efficiency of Sudan's transport entities. Toward these ends, the Bank has
provided: (i) facilities and equipment for the railway, seaport and road
systems; and (ii) technical assistance and training to strengthen
institutional capabilities in the sector. The Bank has emphasized training
and institutional development as a means of achieving long-term
improvements in utilization of capacity and operating efficiency of the
recipient agencies.
1.35     The proposed Project will be the Bank Group's fourth lending
operation in highways. The First Highway Project (Cr. 331-SU, US$7.0
million), approved in 1971, was completed satisfactorily in 1980, about
four years behind schedule, mainly due to delays in equipment procurement
for the road betterment and maintenance programs and to lack of sufficient
local funds. However, a re-evaluation of the project showed that the
investment was sound (Project Completion Report of June 30, 1981). The
Second Highway Project approved in 1979 (Cr. 882-SU, US$41.0 million)
included institutional imp- vements to the Highway administration in the



- 11 -
southern Sudan as well as the construction of the Jebel Aulia - Ed Dueim
road to a bitumen standard. The latter was completed with considerable
cost overruns in 1984 that necessitated the deletion of two Nile River
ferries from the Project and led to a dispute over the interpretationi of
the contract document regarding the method by which cost increases should
be reimbursed. Payment of the arbitration award resulting from the recent
resolution of the dispute has been inclu 1 as a component in the Project.
The Third Highway Project was approved in 1984 (Cr. 1450-SU, SDR 15.5
million). In an attempt to assist the Government in its efforts to solve
its institutional shortcomings, the Project included a large Technical
Assistance component. Consultants are advising RBPC staff in road
maintenance and planning, as well as in the running of the mechanical
workshop in Khartoum. A training program for mechanics and road
maintenance crews, has also started. After long delays in starting up, the
project is now progressing reasonably well with expected completion in
1991, about 2 years behind SAR estimate. RBPC needs technical assistance
to carry out its large construction and maintenance program and to continue
the encouraging progress in its planning routines. It is therefore
proposed to include a technical assistance component large enough to
provide RBPC with expert advisers iT addition to those experts needed to
initiate the Axle Load Control System and PMS System (para. 3.17). The
Bank Group was also involved in improving farm roads under the New Halfa
Irrigation Project (Cr. 1022-SU, US$40.0 million, 1980) and in developing
secondary roads under the Southern Region Agricultural Project (Cr. 904-SU,
1979), cofinanced by the British ODA.
1.36     There have been other Bank-Group financed transport operations in
Sudan. The First Port Project (Cr. 781-SU, US$22.0 million, 1978), the
Second Port Project (Cr. 1233-SU, US$25.0 million, 1982) and three previous
railway projects (Loan 202-SU, US$39.0 million, 1958; Loan 440-SU, US$31.0
million, 1964; and Cr. 457-SU, US$24.0 million, 1974) included provisions
for the modernization and improvement of transport facilities. A Technical
Assistance Credit, approved in 1976 (Cr. 614-SU, US$4.0 million), included
pre-investment work in transportation; while the Fourth Railway Project
approved in 1977 (Cr. 727-SU and Loan 1467-T-SU, US$8.0 million
respectively) concentrated on upgrading the level of efficiency of SRC
operations and provision of motive power and rolling stock.
1.37     The Bank Group's experience in the transport sector has been
mixed. In general, physical implementation of projects in the transport
sector has been satisfactory, although there have been considerable delays
due to: (a) complicated procurement, bid evaluation and contract award
procedures; (b) cost increases which have necessitated revisions in project
scope; and (c) insufficient response to some invitations to bid. The First
Domestic Aviation Project suffered from the above problems to the extent
that the IDA-financed portion of the Project was cancelled. The road
contract in the Second Highway Project experienced problems which resulted
in arbitration. Much of the involvement with SRC has not been successful--
successive projects being bedevilled with problems concerning equipment
suitability, spare parts shortage, weak management and staff training and
morale. In the ports subsector, the Second Project was completed but
procurement problems prevented the Borrower from utilizing nearly US$1.5
million in the Project. The general lessons to be learned are that project



- 12 -
implementation takes longer than expected in Sudan, benefits are generally
slow to materialize, and prediction of costs is difficult, particularly in
more remote areas.
F. Bank Strategy
1.38     The Bank's experience in the transport sector, in sum,
demonstrates that the traditional approach of assuming that institutional
improvements will be generated from the momentum of investments and
associated TA, does not apply in the case of Sudan. The Bank's strategy
therefore should be to focus on institutional development, both with
respect to sector planning and sector operation and maintenance.   Such a
strategy will be supported by: (a) essential investments; (b) specific
measurable operational objectives; (c) related incremental operational
support tied to performance of the objectives; and (d) coaching TA (the
training and follow-up system of TA).
1.39     The Second and Third Highways projects evolved toward that
approach. The former aimed to help develop the highway administration in
the former Southern Region which was divided on July 1, 1983 into three
regions (Bahr-el-Ghazal, Upper Nile and Equatoria). The ongoing project
supports a team of road experts under contract with a consultant to give
RBPC technical assistance in a variety of organizational and operational
aspects to help improve RBPC's road maintenance capability.
1.40     In addition to addressing a physical need, the proposed Project is
designed to build upon some of the institutional measures in the ongoing
project by setting the stage for preventing similar emergencies in the
future. Implementation of an Axle Load Control System should reduce
premature deterioration of the road, and the establishment of a Pavement
Management System should provide early warning of similar emergencies.
Continuation of the more general technical assistance being provided under
the ongoing Project should enable RBPC to incorporate these two new
activities within its organization and use them to improve its overall
plarning and road maintenance capability.
G. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.41     The proposed Project is justified because avoiding the complete
break-up of some sections of the Khartoum - Port Sudan road and prolonging
the life and protecting the investment of additional parts otherwise in
jeopardy are essential to Sudan's existence as well as economic recovery.
Sudan's highway authority, although gradually improving its ability to
maintain this and other parts of the road network, does not yet have the
capacity to undertake the emergency work required to keep the road open.
Nor does Government have the foreign exchange available to fund private
contractors to do the work. Timely reconstruction and overlay of the worst
sections will avert the need to make much greater investments in the
future.



- 13 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     Sudan's road network totals an estimated 20,000 km, of which 2,335
km are paved and another 6,000 km, mostly in the South, where suitable
lateritic materials are available, are gravelled. Development of Sudan's
paved road network is of recent origin with construction of the first
intercity roads beginning during the 1965 - 70 period. The road network is
supplemented by numerous tracks where terrain and soil conditions permit,
passable only with trucks or four-wheel drive vehicles. Tracks in the
country's eastern half are generally closed for three to four months during
the wet season from June to October while those through desert areas are
passable most of the year.
2.02      The recently completed Highway Organization and Investment Study
(HOIS), carried out by consultants (Norconsult) under the ongoing Third
Highway Project, undertook an inventory of Sudan's roads. Based on this
study, and on information from the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation,
the gazetted Sudan highway network can be classified as follows:
SUDAN HIGHWAY NETWORF.
Road Length - Km
Primary      Secondary        Tertiary      Total
Roads         Roads          Roads
Bitumen                     2,037           127          171         2,335
Gravel                     2,289         2,077         1,483         5,849
Other                         -          6,000 *       5,816 *      11,816 *
Total                 4,326         8,204         7,470        20,000 *
Source: HOIS and RBPC data, July, 1988.
*   Estimated.
2.03     In addition, there are approximately 3,000 km of special purpose
roads constructed under irrigation and rural development projects. A
listing of the Sudan's main paved and gravel roads is contained in Annex I,
Table 2.1. The map shows existing routes by type of surface.
2.04     Road Classification System.  There is no official road
classification system in Sudan and consequently the division of
responsibility for road maintenance among the central, regional and local
governments is unclear (para. 2.19).  Government has recognized the need to
clarify the legal status of its road network and define the various classes
of roads and the authority responsible for each. Recommendations for
instituting a formalized classification were made in the HOIS. Government



- 14 -
has established an interministerial committee to review these
recommendations and draft clarifying legislation. Government has agreed to
establish a road classification system in accordance with an agreed action
plan (para. 5.01 and Annex VIII).
2.05     Khartoum - Port Sudan Road.  The most important road in the
country, and the focus of the proposed Project, extends from Port Sudan on
the Red Sea to Khartoum via Haiya, Kassala, El Gedaref and Wad Medani;
1,182 km long it thus represents 50Z of Sudan's paved network. The road
was built in sections, between 7 and 18 years ago. The oldest section
between Khartoum and Wad Medani was completed in 1970; the last section,
between Wad Medani and El Gedaref was completed in 1981 but received an
overlay three years later. Passing through the most populated and
economically active areas of the country, the road is heavily used,
carrying annually about 3.5 million tons of imports and exports. Due to
severe overloading, and lack of proper maintenance, combined with
Government's failure to provide part of the road (Gedaref - Port Sudan)
with a 50 mm wearing course as called for in the original pavement design,
certain sections of the road are now experiencing severe surface and base
failure and are in urgent need of rehabilitation. Avoiding further
deterioration and protecting other sections in jeopardy, is essential to
Sudan's economic well-being and is the focus of the proposed Project.
2.06     The worst sections of the road are between Gedaref and Port Sudan
where the road is designed with a 7.00 m wide carriageway, which is widened
to 3 lanes on the steep sections of the Akaba Pass near Sinkat. The
shoulders are 2.50 m wide between Gedaref and Kassala, and between Suakin
and Port Sudan, but only 1.50 m on the rest of the road. The pavement was
designed to carry about 8 million Equivalent Standard Axles. It was
assumed that the legal axle load limit of 10 tons would be adhered to.
Depending upon the in situ CBR - values of the subgrade, the pavement
layers were stipulated as follows:
80 mm Bit. upper basecourse (stage 1.)
150-220 mm Granular lower basecourse
0-300 mm Granular subbase
A 50 mm AC wearing course was intended to be added at a later date,
denending on the traffic pattern that would develop. Unfortunately, this
final top layer has not been laid on any section of the road apart from a
short section near Gedaref. Because of this, the average bearing capacity
of the road was not more than 2.2 million ESA-80, as compared to 8 million
if the top 50 mm had been applied. As a result, some sections have failed
already.
2.07     There are 111 bridges between El Gedaref and Port Sudan of a
standard reinforced concrete design. The standard span length is 15.6 m,
and the number of spans varies from 1 to 10. The bridge decks are either
precast slabs (Kassala - Port Sudan) or cast-in-situ slabs (El Gedaref -
Kassala). The last bridge, across the Atbara River, is constructed with
precast, post-tensioned girders and a cast-in-situ slab. There are 9 spans
of about 40 m each. The original design included a 50 mm asphalt concrete
overlay over the whole road, including the bridges. This overlay was never



- 15 -
provided. This design change, combined with severe overloading over many
years, contributed to the collapse in late 1987, of part of the deck
elements on one of the bridges between Suakin and Port Sudan. Given the
large number of bridges of the same design, there was a need to establish
whether the collapse was an isolated case, or whether general construction
problems or an inherent design fault could lead to similar problems with a
number of the bridges. A survey of bridges has been carried out as part of
the detailed engineering. This study concluded that the deck slabs on 105
out of the 112 bridges (total length about 5000 m) are showing signs of
distress. Consequently, the detailed engineering and the contract
documents presently under preparation will incorporate strengthening of all
bridges, most likely by adding new cast-in-situ-slabs using the old deck as
shuttering. Bridge rehabilitation will be included in one of the two civil
works contracts.
Condition of the Roads
2.08     As part of the HOIS,  Norconsult undertook a pavement evaluation
survey in August 1986 of Sudan's most travelled paved roads, including the
one from Khartoum to Port Sudan. Benkelman beam measurements were used to
assess the strength of the roads and estimate the residual life. The
results are shown in Annex II, Figure 2.1.
2.09     Khartoum - Port Sudan Road.  Sections of the Khartoum - Port Sudan
road have reached the end of their design life and need reconstruction or
strengthening. Since the survey, deteriorating sections of the Khartoum -
Port Sudan road have gotten worse. As part of the preparation for this
Project, Norconsult reexamined the Port Sudan - Khartoum road in the first
quarter of 1988, and after the floods 1Zn August 1988, and found 70 km in
need of reconstruction and 496 km in need of overlay to prevent damage to
the pavement structure. The Project thus consists primarily of funds
necessary to undertake these repairs.
2.10     The primary cause of the premature deterioration on this road is
overloading. Road pavements are generally designed to carry a certain
number of Equivalent Standard Axles (ESA - 80) of eight tons, during the
road's design life. If the traffic forecasts are too low, or the axle
loads on the road too high, the service life of the road will be less than
anticipated. 1   In either case, the result will be early deterioration of
the pavement, higher vehicle operating costs, more expensive road
maintenance work and premature need for costly reconstructioL of the road.
2.11     On the critical sections of the Port Sudan - Khartoum road, about
50% of the heavy vehicle axle loads are above the present legal limit of 10
tons, according to surveys done by Norconsult. The average number of ESA's
(EquivalenL Standard Axle) for a heavy vehicle varied around 50, while the
legal limit would indicate a norm of about 6. The survey found one vehicle
representing 352 standard axles and ESA values between 200 and 250 were
observed daily. These findings are extraordinary and clearly show the
extent of the problem in Sudan. Heavy vehicles with axle loads over 10
1/ The relative damaging effect caused by an axle load increases
dramatically with increasing axle loads.



- 16 -
tons are responsible for 961 of the pavement damage, while the number of
these axles constitutes only 45? of all axles passing over the road.
Consequently, if overloading can be reduced, the life of the road can be
dramatically lengthened.
2.12     The number of heavy vehicles trrvelling between Khartoum and Port
Sudan is fairly constant along the entire road, varying between 172 and 206
vehicles per day (1986). Between Khartoum and Wad Medani, the number of
medium vehicles is significantly higher than on the rest of the road.
Total estimated average annual daily traffic (AADT) in 1986 on this section
was 4,400 vehicles.
2.13     Other Roads.  Other bitumen roads in the country are also showing
signs of distress. Government's capacity tc maintain its road network is
inadequate, so much so that a number of donors have agreed to fund
maintenance of roads originally built with their funds for the initial
years after construction. Government's own force account unit, if properly
equipped, should be able to undertake repair and resealing work on many of
these roads and on sections of the Gedaref - Port Sudan road not included
in the Project. The Project thus provides for the procurement of road
construction and maintenance equipment for this purpose. In the case of
the Wad Medani to Gedaref section of the Khartoum - Port Sudan road, the
donor involved in the original construction also will be asked to assist
Government in such periodic maintenance work.
2.14     As for the condition of the gravel roads, most of which are in the
South, less precise information is available. Maintenance needs in the
South are reported to be significant because of neglect during years of
civil strife there, but continued hostilities prevent any thorough
inventory of needs being undertaken.
Current and Planned Highway Prolects
2.15     Sudan's road network is so inadequate that Government's primary
focus in the highway subsector has been to plan and finance its expansion.
Currently an additional 755 km are under construction and another 3637 km
are at various stages of preparation, as detailed in Annex I, Table 2.2.
Government's first priority is to link the road system on a north-south
axis; secondarily, to put together an east-west axis. Toward the former
goal, Government wanes to extend northwards by first building a road to
Dongola from Omdurman; another high priority road would be parallel to the
railway route to Atbara, across the Atabara river there and on to Haiya and
Port Sudan; in the longer term Government would extend the road from Atbara
north to Halfa and Egypt via Merowe and Dongola. In the South,
Government's priority is to connect the road from Renk to Bor. On the
East-West axis, plans include buildirg a road on the north-east side of the
Blue Nile from Khartoum to Wad Medani to relieve the most heavily
trafficked route in the country, some additional roads in the Gedaref
region, and westward, to expand and connect the engineered network from El
Obeid to Zalinger and eventually to Geneina and Adre on the Chadian border.
2.16     Most of the proposed new road construction has been estimated as
having high rates of return in a series of pre-feasibility and feasibility
studies undertaken to help Government assess its priorities. Among the



- 17 -
most important of these arL the Sudan Transport Study (1974), the Road
Maintenance Study (1979), the Feeder Road Master Plan (1979), a Technical
and Economic Feasibility Study of the Khartoum - Wad Medani Road Corridor,
Final Global Study Report (1986) and most recently the HOIS.  These
studies, and the analyses accompan ing detailed engineering of roads chosen
for construction, have resulted in the production of a comprehensive and,
on the whole, soundly conceived program for development. A listing of the
proposed investments, ranked in order of internal rate of return, is
contained in Annex I, Table 2.3.
2.17     For the past twenty years the focus of IDA's assistance in the
highway subsector has been aimed at building up Sudan's capacity to plan
and carry out maintenance of existing roads. To this end the Bank has
focussed on providing technical assistance and maintenance equipment to the
Roads and Bridges Public Corporation. Only once in the last twenty years
has the Bank assisted with the construction of a new road: under the
Second Highway Project, IDA funded the construction of 158 km between Jebel
Aulia and Ed Dueim (see paras. 1.35 and 3.12). Given the link between
agricultural development, key to Sudan's economic recovery and long term
viability and roads, the funding of new roads by IDA may become part of the
forthcoming Fourth Highway Project. In any case, IDA will seek to play a
role in coordinating new investments by promoting projects shown in Annex
I, Table 2.4.
B. The Highway Authority - The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
Legal Framework
2.18     Sudan's highway network is administered by the Roads and Bridges
Public Corporation (RBPC). Established in August 1973 as a public
corporation, RBPC is supervised by a Board of Directors which reports to
the Minister of Works, Housing and Public Utilities. The Board consists of
a full-time Chairman, the Director General of RBPC, representatives from
the Ministry of Works, Housing and Public Utilities, the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning, the private sector, and RBPC employees.
RBPC's status as public corporation was reconstituted in 1983 under the
Public Corporations Act and seems related to its having use of funds
collected from road tolls for maintenance. These funds are inadequate to
fund real maintenance needs, do not help meeting foreign exchange
requirements and lead to a situation whereby Government tends to overlook
the need to supplement the road tolls in its own budget for recurrent
expenditure. Moreover, in practice the Corporation has little autonomy and
functions like any other government department. Given RBPC's role as
caretaker and developer of Sudan's highway network, and the lack of revenue
earning capacity to fully finance its activities, Government might be well-
advised to formalize the existing situation by establishing a Highway
Authority within the Ministry.
2.19     By statute, RBPC is solely responsible for studies, design,
construction, construction supervision and maintenance of all national
roads and bridges in the country, but, as referred to in para. 2.34, there



- 18 -
is no legal definition of a "national" road. RBPC interprets its
responsibility to be limited to bitumen roads and bridges outside
municipalities. The maintenance of earth and gravel roads is left to the
regional governments to perform although RBPC's local regional managers
provide technical assistance. Also excluded, via a caveat that states
"with the exception of roads and bridges that are under the jurisdiction of
other bodies," are roads constructed under special projects such as
irrigation and rural development schemes in which case maintenance
responsibility rests with the public corporations established to manage the
schemes. It was agreed that Government will establish an appropriate road
classification system in accordance with an agreed action plan (Annex VIII)
(para. 5.01).
Organization
2.20     RBPC is headquartered at Khartoum and has regional managers
located in the provinces. It operates a central workshop in Khartoiun, and
six road maintenance workshops along the network (Derdeb, Sinkat, El Girba,
Aroma, Sennar and Kosti). A new workshop was constructed in Juba under the
Second Highway Project but for the most part maintenance of roads in the
South is left to the provincial governments there. According to RBPC,
staff employed as of July 1988 consisted of 154 engineers, 1,067 other
technical staff including laborers and 260 administrative personnel.
2.21     RBPC's present organization (depicted in Annex II, Figure 2.2) is
basically unchanged since 1973 despite recommendations to reorganize made
by consultants under the First Highway Project. At the top, the present
organization suffers from a blurring of the responsibilities between the
Chairman and Director General. The Chairman implicitly assumes authority
for operating the corporation although full power and responsibility have
been vested in the Director General. This situation has weakened the
corporation's decision-making capacity.  Sometimes, important decisions are
either not made or are referred to higher authorities to resolve. The
organization also suffers from: (i) too wide a span of control at the top
management level --- i.e. there are too many departments all reporting on
an equal basis to thae Director General; (ii) too many levels of management
which control fewer and fewer subordinates as the hierarchy descends; (iii)
underutilization of experienced staff; (iv) limited delegation in some
departments; (v) insufficient attention given to the planning function;
(vi) lack of operational authority particularly with regard to procurement
and contract administration; (vii) no director of finance and
administration; (viii) too horizontal a structure in the accounts and
financial departments (Chief, Budget and Accounts equates with the post of
Financial Manager, a Director of Stores and Purchasing assisted by a Senior
Purchasing Officer functions outside the finance department); and (ix)
there is a need to streamline the stores procedures and operations.
2.22     These and other points are also raised in the HOIS whicb reviewed
the existing role and organization of RBPC, and recommended improvements to
its organization taking into account available staff at various levels.
Several alternatives to the existing organizational structure were
presented in the HOIS, and the one recommended by the consultant is shown



- 19 -
in Annex II, FJg. 2.3. The Government established a task force to consider
the recommendations of the HOIS and presented its draft organization plan
to IDA at negotiations.    It was agreed tl.at Government would implement its
plan according to an agreed action plan (Annex VIII) (para. 5.01).
Financing of Investments
2.23      Highway expenditures, particularly for construction, have been
increasing substantially in the last ten years as detailed in the table
below. These expenditures are financed from three sources: (i) Government
general revenues; (ii) foreign aid; and (iii) road toll revenues.
RBPC Expenditure on Roads (£Sd. Million)
FY         1979   1980   19e1   1932   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Construction     80.67  84.80  81.11  23.69  28.30  88.00  37.3   a8.0  149.1  181.0
% of Total       97.88  98.27  96.14  92.08  86.86  87.88  78.88  67.39  87.91  81.82
MAINTENANCE
Strengthening    0.29   0.86   0.30   0.41   1.60   2.00   6.6   18.6   10.0   11.4
(Periodic)
Regular          0.28   0.80   0.82   0.37   2.00   1.50   4.6    8.0    6.6   11.9
SUB-TOTAL         0.67   0.68   0.62   0.78   8.60   3.50  10.00  21.60  16.60  23.30
% of Total        1.81   1.82   1.90   3.04  10.92   8.06  19.80  37.39   9.14  14.46
Administrative Expenses and
Training         0.27   0.68   0.97   1.25   1.08   2.00   8.20   8.00   6.00   8.80
TOTAL EXPENDITURES
£Sd.           31.41  35.63  32.70  26.62  32.96  43.50  60.60  57.60 169.60 161.10
EXCHANGE RATES:
Official                       0.60   0.90   1.30   1.30   2.60   2.60   4.60   4.60
Free Market                            1.60   1.80   2.00   3.60   4.80   8.0   10.0
,OTAL EXPENDITURES USS EQUIVALENT:
Official                      86.40  28.47  26.38  33.46  20.20  23.00  37.69  36.80
Free Market                           17.08  18.31  21.76  14.43  11.98  21.20  16.11
ROAD TOLLS COLLECTED:            0.97   0.82   1.09   1.79   8.60   4.60   8.80  13.40
Source:  HOIS and RBPC.
* The total revenue structure will be reviewed as part of the preparation for the
Fourth Highway Project.
2.24      Until recently, total revenues collected from road users were well
in excess of the total annual expenditures shown above. As shown in Annex
I, Table 2.5, the level of general revenues generated by road users has
been climbing steadily, averaging about £Sd 100 million annually in the
early 1980's and is now in the neighborhood of £Sd 150 million per year.



- 20 -
The resulting gap is likely to widen unless Government raises the level of
fuel taxes or road tolls. Reassessment of the total revenue structure,
including tolls, fuel and vehicle taxes will be reviewed as part of the
preparation for the Fourth Highway Project. This amount includes tolls,
which were introduced in FY80 on the Khartoum-Port Sudan Road. Tolls have
grown from a total of £Sd 0.97 million in FY86 to £Sd.6.8 million in FY87
and 13.40 million in FY88. By comparison expenditures in £Sd have risen
dramatically in the last couple of years due to the effect of high
inflation, and are now in the order of ESd 170 million.
R6PC Expenditure on Roads
ToM In US 5 and Ld
170'  -     -    -                -
140'                                          
gJ 120T    -                                =
* 100
go
D         _0  -   -    -     -     -     -     -
E 0-   -                                - 
U ~ ~      ~
.u 70     '-                                     
2.25     Budget.  As shown in the table above, RBPC's total expenditures
have increased considerably since 1981 (about 500?) from £Sd. 32.0 million
to £Sd. 160 million. Yet in real terms there has been no increase, since
over the same period, the value of the Sudanese Pound has been declining by
about the same factor (£Sd. 1.8 to 10.0 to the US$), as illustrated in the
above graph. On average over the last four years, development expenditures
have taken up 75Z of the total expenditures on roads. RBPC have, for the
last four years, requested a budget of £Sd 20 million per year for routine
maintenance, but only an amount equivalent to the total revenue collected
in tolls during the preceding financial year has been allocated as shown in
the Table below. Funds spent in FY88 on maintenance represent little more
than 2? of Government's recurrent budget and a little more than 0.2? of the
GNP. The cost spent per km. for routine maintenance is equivalent to
US$250 at free market rates or US$550 at official rates.



- 21 -
Routine Maintenance Budget
(ESd. Millions)
Funds         Tolls        Funds Made         Funds
Year       Requested      Collected      Available          Spent
1984/85        20            3.5
1985/86        20            4.5            3.5               3.5
1986/87        20            6.8            4.5               4.5
1987/88        20           13.4 *          5.5 *             5.8 *
* Estimate.
Source: RBPC.
2.26     This amount is far from adequate.  Bitumen,  as well as other
material, is difficult to obtain, and even if available, the price is high.
Sudan's maintenance budget, as in many other countries, is heavily burdened
by salaries, leaving little for materials and equipment expenses.
Government recognizes the need for greater funds. RBPC, together with
MFEP, estimated in FY86 that it would cost £Sd 16,881,000 per year to
provide routine maintenance to preserve the approximately 2235 km roads in
an adequate condition. (Source Table 18, Road Toll Feasibility Study, July
1987). This level of expenditure corresponds to £Sd 7,556 per km., or US$
1675/km at 4.5 rate of exchange or US$ 765/km at the current market rate.
A figure between US$1,500 and US$2,000 would be considered adequate under
normal circumstances.
2.27     Government's definition of periodic maintenance includes both
strengthening and upgrading, operations that normally are included in the
development budget. In a way, this is a reflection of the fact that little
resealing is taking place and that ill-maintained roads tend to fall into
the category where reconstruction is required, as in the case of the
Khartoum-Port Sudan road. The figures spent on periodic maintenance, (ESd
11.4 million in FY88), would have been reasonable for a relatively young
network (approximately US$1100 per km/year) had all the funds been used for
actual periodic maintenance.
2.28     In view of the inadequacy of funds, donors have felt compelled to
continue their involvement in projects even after construction is
completed. Temporarily, this aid has lessened the maintenance burden on
the Government, and vital links have been kept open. In the long term
Government must develop RBPC's own capacity and provide funds to maintain
the road network. Achievement of this latter objective will be sought
within the context of the macroeconomic dialogue between Government and
IDA.
2.29     Capital Expenditures.  Expenditures for new projects average about
£Sd. 140.0 million per year and add toughly 100 km per year to the road
network.  Plans for the future are more ambitious.  Government's four-year
investment program, 1988/89 to 1991/92, together with RBPC's long-term plan
up to 1997/98 is shown in Annex I, Table 2.4. Unit rates for construction



- 22 -
are based on RBPC's and appraisal mission's estimates rather than the low
figures used by MDEP in its preparation of the PIP. The average annual
projected expenditure in the first four years of the program is just under
£Sd. 500 million or US$100.0 million, about 3 1/2 times the amounts spent
in recent years and about 2 times the number of kilometers built. Judging
from past experience, it is unlikely the Sudan will be able to carry out
such an ambitious program, even with the support of the many donors that
traditionally have assisted in the highway sector over many years.
Nonetheless, the majority of the projects included in the program have a
high estimated Internal Rate of Return, and it is likely that some of them
with the highest priority will be included in the upcoming Fourth Highway
Project as part of the implementation of a sound, phased expansion program.
2.30     Financial and Accounting Systems.  The HOIS contains a number of
sound recommendations regarding the improvement of RBPC's accounting,
budget, procurement, planning, management information and stores management
systems. IDA encourages Government and RBPC to implement these
recommendations and is providing an expert to help do so under the proposed
Project. One of the main objectives of these recommendations is to provide
greater financial and operating autonomy. Of particular importance to IDA
is the suggestion that the maximum amount within the budget, that the
General Manager may approve for tenders should be raised substantially
above its present level of £Sd 5,000 (equivalent to US$ 500 at current
market exchange rates) to benefit smoother operation. Similarly regional
directors should be able to approve higher expenditures without approval
from headquarters. It was agreed that Government would, not later than
March 31, 1990, empower RBPC's Board of Director to approve expenditures of
up to £Sd 250,000 (para. 5.01).
Planning
2.31     Investment Planning.  RBPC's planning unit is understaffed and
ill-placed organizationally within RBPC; its resulting weakness is one of
RBPC's most fundamental problems. Pre-feasibility studies are usually
undertaken by consultants contracting directly with MFEP, a situation that
leads to a rivalry between RBPC and the MFEP that has, on occasion,
handicapped subsequent project implementation. Under the Third Highway
Project, the planning function is being strengthened both in terms of
staffing and equipment. The unit is carrying out a pilot scheme for axle
load control and regular traffic surveys. Provided the unit is given
adequate resources, after the technical assistance team has left, it is
expected that the RBPC will be able to continue long-term planning duties
for the road sector. The HOIS recommends that the Planning Unit be set up
as a staff function reporting directly to the Director General. RBPC will
elevate the planning unit according to a reorganization program to be
implementee in accordance with an agreed action plan (Annex VIII) (para.
5.01). An expert transport economist/planner will be provided under the
Project to assist the planning unit in its efforts.
2.32     Maintenance Planning.  RBPC's maintenance planning is also weak;
it is done more on the basis of available funds than on projecting real
needs. The technical assistance tearT in the ongoing Third Highway Project
is working with RBPC's maintenance department to improve planning. Under



- 23 -
the Project, RBPC will be required to present to the Association an annual
maintenance plan, by September 30 of each year, relating budget to physical
works programmed for the subsequent year and relating work to be
accomplished with maintenance needs of the road network in the long term.
A road maintenance engineer, to be provided under the Project will assist
in this effort, using data provided by the Pavement Evaluation Unit.
2.33     Pavement Evaluation Unit.  Pavement evaluation is essential to the
preparation of a maintenance strategy and a maintenance program for the
road network. A system of regular pavement monitoring can detect potential
deterioration of the road and permit remedial measures to be taken before
costly reconstruction is required. As part of its pavement evaluation
study, Norconsult trained staff of the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
in pavement evaluation methods. Reactivating such a unit and training
appropriate staff to conduct routine pavement evaluation is of vital
importance. To assist in preparing this Project, a small pavement
evaluation unit was reestablished. Equipment, vehicles, data processing
capability, technical assistance and training necessary to implement a
comprehensive Pavement Management System that will endure in the long term
is provided for in the Project. During the implementation phase, this unit
will be under the Planning Department of RBPC. Once fully operational, it
is expected that the Maintenance Department will take over.
Design and Construction
2.34     RBPC has a design section in its projects directorate but only
minor road improvements and bridges are designed in-house. Detailed
engineering of major works is carried out by consulting firms and the main
function of the RBPC design staff is to supervise their work.   RBPC has
not established its own design standards, but by and large, the geometric
design of newly constructed roads has been uniform. There is a need to
prepare a Road Design Manual and Standard Specifications for Sudan.   This
need will be addressed in the upcoming Fourth Highway Project.
2.35     Construction work is carried out primarily by foreign contractors,
but on occasion, by RBPC direct labor. Where RBPC has constructed works by
force account, - the Wad Medani Sennar-Kosti road (217 km), is one case, -
a management team provided by consultants assisted the RBPC site
management.  Transport of materials is subcontracted out to local
transporters and a few domestic road contractors are beginning to compete
with foreign firms for construction work itself. In the Kardofan Rainfed
Agricultural Project, six domestic contractors were pre-qualified and there
are Sudanese contractors undertaking road projects of a similar scope
financed by USAID. The proposed Fourth Highway Project should include a
component to provide support to this emerging industry.
Maintenance Organization and Equipment
2.36     The maintenance organization is directed from the Head Office in
Khartoum and divided into five regions in the North and three in the South.
The region is again divided into divisions. Staffing (engineers,
technicians and laborers) is generally adequate - but utilization of staff
and equipment is sub-optimal due to lack of adequate and timely provision



- 24 -
of funds, lack of delegation of authority to use the funds, insufficient
management capacity and lack of spare parts, fuel and foreign exchange for
bitumen and other materials.
2.37     Nonetheless RBPC is trying to improve its ability to maintain
roads and undertake reconstruction projects and its efforts are being
supported by the ongoing IDA-funded Third Highway Project. The Project
provides for additional technical assistance as a continuation of the TA
component under the Third Highway Project. Under previous Credits, the
Association financed road maintenance equipment and RBPC has also
benefitted from a Japanese Credit for purchase of equipment and spares,
British ODA assistance for workshop improvements and equipment left over
from construction projects and from a EfW-financed maintenance unit in the
West. Many items of equipment have since become scrap, however, due to
lack of proper maintenance and age. Overall equipment availability is low
because of old equipment, lack of trained mechanics, poor workshop
organization and management and insufficient supply of spare parts.
2.38     Under the Third Highway Project, Government is preparing a
comprehensive inventory of all equipment belonging to RBPC. Annex III
gives the preliminary results of this survey after about 70Z of the stock-
taking is complete. On average, only about 252 of all pieces of equipment
is operational, about 301 is considered repairable and the balance 45X,
should be replaced. This is a reflection of the fact that a large
proportion of RBPC's equipment is "leftovers" from completed contracts
where the contractor did not demobilize, but handed the equipment over to
the Government upon completion of the works. Considered generous at the
time, the now non-functional equipment is swamping the maintenance yards
and leaving stores filled with unsuitable spares. Consequently,
standardization becomes difficult. The proposed Fourth Highway Project
will thus provide for road maintenance equipment and materials to increase
the capacity of the RBPC to carry out routine and periodic maintenance.
Training
2.39     RBPC has a permanent Training Committee made up of Department
Heads and a small Training Unit (3 Staff members) operating under the
Director General. The Committee decides training related policy issues and
selects candidates for training. The Training Unit itself deals primarily
with the administrative issues. RBPC offers limited training programs for
operators and mechanics, orientation programs for newly recruited
engineers, external programs coordinated by the Training Unit and
management development programs offered by the Sudan Academy for
Administrative Services. On the whole, however, the Training Unit is
inadequately staffed and funded, and the entire training function is
rudimentary.
2.40     The Third Highway Project tried to augment RBPC's training
capacity by funding equipment for the Khartoum Pclytechnic Institute (IPI)
in exchange for scholarships for RBPC but the hoped for cooperation did not
materialize as intended. Programs for internal training are being
developed and tested, primarily in maintenance operations and at the
mechanical workshop at "Kilo 10" under the technical assistance component



- 25 -
of the ongoing Third Highway Project. Also, a Training Produc:ion Unit
(TPU) has been established, mainly to provide practical training
opportunities for repair and resealing of paved roads. In the longer term,
however, RBPC needs to establish and develop a separate training division,
properly staffed, equipped and funded. Building upon the experience gained
under the Third Highways Project, the proposed Project will provide some
general training as well as training of RBPC and Police staff to implement
the Axle Load Control and Pavement Management Systems.
C. Axle Load Regulation and Road Safety
Lramework
2.41     Road traffic legislation dates back to the Road Traffic Act of
1945. It was repealed in 1962 when the Road Traffic Act of 1962 (RTA 62)
was put into force. In 1975, the Highway Traffic Regulations (HTR 75) were
annexed to RTA 62. In between these dates, there was a 'Change of traffic
to the right hand side of the road" Act in 1973. In recognition of the
great number of vehicles imported to Sudan, and the many kilometers of
paved highway constructed during the last 15 years, RTA 62 was further
amended by the Road Traffic Act of 1983 (RTA 83). The HTR 75 was not
amended parallel to the RTA in 1983, and is still in force, confusing
matters somewhat, especially as far as axle load regulations are concerned.
2.42     To protect the investment in roads, as well as for reasons of road
safety, the dimensions and weights of vehicles operating on public roads
must be limited. Section 16 of HTR 75 states that '... no person shall
drive or cause to be driven a vehicle which exceeds 9 tons on the
highway...' This is interpreted as meaning 9 tons axle load. Section 27
in RTA 83 states that "...vehicles of carrying capacity of 5 tons or more,
not exceeding 10 tons maximum, should not exceed overall height 16 feet
(4.88 m).' The 10 tons is commonly referred to as the maximum axle load.
2.43     These two regulations lead to the maximum load on a single axle
being interpreted as 9/10 tons or 9 (10) tons. No regulations are
referring to axle spacing, single or dual wheels, and tandem axles
(bogies). The RTA contains detailed regulations regarding maximum
permissible heights of vehicles, as well as maximum permissible length an!
width.
2.44     In view of the foregoing, Government is in the process of
redrafting the Highway Traffic Regulations to provide a legal framework
that eliminates the confusion and vagueness so that the PoliLd and RBPC can
prosecute cases of axle load violations. A draft of the revised axle load
legislation was submitted to IDA in December 1988. It was agreed that the
revised legislation will be implemented by July 1, 1991.
Axle Load Control
2.45     To date, use of weigh bridges to control axle loads under the
existing law has been minimal but RBPC has approached major offenders
(sugar and cement factories) to voluntarily reduce overloading. As a result



- 26 -
of the HOIS findings and strong recommendations to implement an axle load
control system, more recently RBPC has initiated a pilot scheme to gain
experience with the use of portable weigh-bridges, but not to control
overloading at this stage. A progress report was sent to IDA in December,
1988. Revision of the axle load legislation as well as initiation and
implementation of an Axle Load Control System will be critical elements in
the proposed Project. It was agreed that Government will: (a) establish,
not later than July 1, 1990, axle load limits acceptable to the
Association; (b) take not later than j2L 1, 1991, all measures necessary
to enforce such limits including implementation of the Axle Load Control
System (para. 5.01).
Road Safety
2.46     The number of accidents depends largely on driver behavior,
conditions of the roads and the quality of vehicles, but it is also an
indicator of the quality of the legislation and its enforcement. The
Highway Traffic Police has started systematically to collect data on
accidents. Annex I, Table 2.6 shows the nationwide accident statistics for
the period 1973-83. The 1983 figures indicate a positive development, with
substantial reduction in number of both deaths and injuries.
2.47     As is the case in most developing countries, the accident
frequency in Sudan (accidents per vehicle) is 10-20 times higher than in
the industrialized countries. This is a great challenge for continued
traffic safety efforts, and an indication of the great potential for
improvement in this field. Consequently, the Project provides for
vehicles, safety equipment and rescue equipment to assist the Traffic
Police in its efforts to improve the road safety situation.
D. Road Transport
2.48     The expansion of Sudan's highways has brought tremendous growth in
road transport. Road transport is carrying 882 of total traffic, both in
passengers and goods (in 1969/70 the share was about 25Z). 2
The number of licensed vehicles over time is shown in Annex I, Table 2.7.
2.49     Freight Traffic.  Road vehicles now carry about 902 of all traffic
on the main corridor between Port Sudan and Khartoum. The growth in road
freight traffic over the period 1974 - 88 averaged 5-6Z per year. Annual
average daily traffic (AADT) varies considerably over the main road
network, from about 4400 v.p.d. on the Khartoum-Wad Medani road to less
than 50 v.p.d. on less trafficked sections. The Norconsult study estimates
that average traffic growth rates will be in the order of 4-5Z p.a. over
the next 20 years.
2/  Traffic volumes have been established, based partly on review of
several feasibility studies carried out over the last 15 years,
countrywide by RBPC and by Berger (1974), Norconsult/EIU (1979) and
Norconsult/Newtech (1986).



- 27 -
2.50     The shift from rail to road is not entirely due to the growing
network of paved roads; some of it is also due to the fact that the quality
and quantity of rail service have declined. Road transport is now being
substituted for rail even in regions from El Obeid westward, (and north
toward Wadi Halfa,) where the established rail system should have an
advantage. Although costly in absolute terms, road transport is
essentially "unregulated," heavily competitive and efficient.
2.51     Passenger Traffic.  Road passenger services are provided almost
exclusively by private operators, employing buses of various sizes, but
normally standard single deck of about 60-70 passenger capacity, and by
modified trucks. The bus fleet has increased to about 5,000 vehicles and
probably carries about 6 billion passenger km per year, well in excess of
the 1 billion passenger-km per year carried by SRC.  It also carries
appreciably greater traffic than private cars which number about 100,000
and a very rough estimate suggests that commercial road transport accounts
for two-thirds of passenger movements. The public transport operators are
licensed, but as far as can be judged, the Government does not control
tariffs or routing. They are subject to the same financial conditions as
described under trucking.
2.52     Trucking Industry.  Most of the country's estimated 50,000 trucks
are privately owned and there are a few large fleets. Competition has been
heightened by the presence of about 700 truckers from Ethiopia who undercut
prevailing rates. As of early 1988 there were 4200 long haul vehicles,
trucks, tractor-trailers and tankers less than ten years old, with an
estimated annual capacity of 4.0 million tons. Capacity of all heavy
trucks and trailers in the country is estimated at 200,000 tons; capacity
of small and medium trucks for hire is 170,000 tons. This capacity is more
than adequate for Sudan's transport demand (para 1.13). Fuel shortages,
lack of spare parts, tires and repair facilities, and the scarcity of
foreign exchange to replace depreciated vehicles are beginning to handicap
the industry; some companies have gone out of business and it is estimated
that 30Z of the fleet is now out-of-service awaiting spare parts. The
combination of shortages and rising costs make it likely that the trucking
industry will continue to decrease in size in the future.
2.53     Trucking operations are largely concentrated in an area bounded by
Khartoum, Kosti, Ed Damazin and Port Sudan. Important operations also
occur between Kosti and Malakal, around El Obeid, and between the southern
regional capital of Juba and the rail terminal of Wau and between Uganda
and Kenya. Other areas are poorly served and in the west and south, in
particular, there are serious capacity shortages.
2.54     The traditional Sudanese vehicle has been of 6 tons capacity,
often of the Bedford type, with a locally constructed body.  This was well
suited to the mixture of earth and gravel roads prevailing.  With the rapid
expansion of the paved network, heavier trucks with trailers became optimal
for the longer hauls, and on the Port Sudan - Khartoum road, they now
predominate. These truck combinations are technically the most suitable
for existing conditions. As container movements becomo more important
tractor/trailer combinations will become more appropriate.



- 28 -
2.55     The trucking industry and ancillary activities such as the
provision of service facilities and establishment of local component
manufacture is privately financed. This requires access to substantial
foreign exchange resources which; the recorded c.i.f. value of imported
vehicles and spares was £Sd 100 million in 1986. This does not include raw
materials for the local tire and battery industry.
2.56     Fuel.  Fuel supply is inadequate for demand and is actually
declining, particularly on a per vehicle basis, as shown in Annex I, Table
2.10.  Fuel prices are regulated by the Government and diesel fuel prLce is
below cost. Government has been urged to end this subsidy and permit the
market place to set fuel prices. Devaluation of the Sudanese pound in the
Fall of 1987 led to the adjustment of the retail price of gasoline from
£Sd. 7.5 to £Sd. 10.0 (1989) per regular gallon. in line with setting
prices at commercial rates at the time.  However, the retail price of
diesel fuel, which is more important for the transport sector, was left
unchanged at a low level of £Sd. 4.0 per gallon.  Failure to alter the
diesel price is even more significant as the value of the Sudanese pound
has eroded substantially since the late 1987; the commercial exchange rate
is 12.2 £SdlUS$, compared with the official rate of 4.5 £Sd/US$. To
eliminate the fuel subsidy altogether using the commercial exchange rate,
the price should be raised to about £Sd. 9.5 per gallon, an increase of
about 138Z. Implementation of higher fuel prices would, in turn, raise
trucking rates nearly 80Z.
2.57     Fuel pricing, particularly the phased elimination of subsidies, is
a topic in the on-going macroeconomic discussions between Government and
the IMF (para. 1.25).



- 29 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Preparation
3.01     Under the ongoing Third Highway Project, the Khartoum-Port Sudan
road was studied by Norconsult, and it was concluded that a substantial
proportion of the road is !.a urgent need of attention if further costly
deterioration is to be av. Lded. Inspection showed some sections already in
need of full reconstruction.
3.02     In March 1987, an IDA mission inspected the Khartoum-Port Sudan
road, in the company of Roads and Bridges management and confirmed the
findings of the Norconsult Study. Several other donor agencies and NGOs
involved in drought relief operations also have expressed concern about the
rapid deterioration of sections of the Khartoum - Port Sudan road. A pre-
appraisal mission, accompanied by RBPC representatives and the Norconsult
team, carried out another inspection of the Khartoum-Port Sudan road in
March 1988. This inspection concluded that the road had deteriorated
further.
3.03     In view of the road's importance to Sudan, Government requested
the Bank to initiate an emergency highway rehabilitation project to finance
urgently needed repairs so as to keep open the road. The most damaged
sections are located between Gedaref and Port Sudan and are the focus of
the proposed Project. The heavy rains and flood in August 1988 revealed
weaknesses in the pavement on sections previously classified as "good" or
'fair", and it became necessary to increase the length of the sections to
be provided with an overlay by about 25 percent. The total length of road
between Gedaref and Port Sudan to be rehabilitated under the Project is 566
km, 75 percent of this section or 48 percent of the whole road.1
1/ The Khartoum - Wad Medani - Gedaref sections were also investigated, as
part of HOIS, but in general, the quality of these sections was such
that urgent attention did not seem warranted, and they were not
included in the proposed Project. Subsequently however, it has been
noticed that a relatively short section near the Gedaref end is showing
signs of.distress. Government is fully aware of the problem, and is
approaching the original donor, The Republic of China, to obtain
assistance for any repair or strengthening that may become necessary.
Timing of any needed rehabilitation of the Khartoum - Wad Medani
section may also be affected by plans to relieve congestion on this
section, either by building a new road on the north-eastern side of the
Blue Nile, or a second carriageway along the present alignment.



- 30 -
3.04     Detailed engineering work for the sections included in this
Project is being carried out by Norconsult in two phases. The first phase,
funded as an extension of the Third Highway Project contract with
Norconsult (HOIS), identified the precise locations of the sections to be
included in the Project. The second phase, under which detailed
engineering and tender documents are being prepared, has been financed from
funds added to the Third Highway Project through a grant from the Norwegian
Government.
3.05     In late 1987, the deck slab on one of the 112 bridges on the
Gedaref - Port Sudan section collapsed. Given the number of bridges of the
sams design on the road, a preliminary survey of the br-idges was included
as part of the detailed engineering in order to examine whether the
collapse was an isolated case. The study concluded that 105 of the bridges
are showing signs of listress that sooner or later will result in similar
deck collapses (para. 2.07). Consequently, strengthening of the bridges
has been included in the Project.
3.06     Detailed engineering for the main civil works component was
substantially completed in January 1989. Tender documents have been
prepared by Consultants and it is expected that contracts for civil works
can be awarded in April 1990.
3.07     As preparation for implementing the axle load legislation,
Government is reviewing legislation used in other countries and has agreed
to prepare draft legislation ciarifying sections of the Road Act dealing
with axle load limitations (paras. 2.45 and 5.01). RBPC is currently
undertaking a pilot project, with help from the technical assistance team
financed under the ongoing project, to measure axle loads now passing on
the Khartoum-Port Sudan road with mobile weigh bridges. RBPC has submitted
a status report on its experience to date. This report provides
information necessary for Government to finalize legislation.
3.08     RBPC and IDA have also held substantial discussions with the
Commissioner of the Police and key officers to determine equipment needed
to enforce the axle load limitations. The Police have also prepared an
action plan for conducting a Public Awareness Campaign once the stage is
set to implement the axle load control program.
3.09     Under the ongoing Third Highway Project, consultants established a
system of monitoring the paved roads in Sudan. The results included in the
HOIS formed the basis for the proposed Project. The monitoring system is
to be expanded into a full Pavement Management System under the Project
through the procurement of equipment and with the help of technical
assistance.



- 31 -
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.10     The primary purpose of the proposed Project is to finance urgently
needed repairs on Sudan's main transport artery so that it remains open and
functional and to extend the useful life of the road. Additionally the
Project seeks to assist Government in putting into place institutional
measures aimed at preventing such emergencies from arising in the future.
As such, the Project does not address some of RBPC's longer term
institutional problems, many of which were discussed in the HOIS and are
now under Government review, as these are bettet dealt with under the
proposed Fourth Highway Project. Similarly, some of the transport issues
mentioned in Chapter I are beyond the scope of this Project and will be
subjects for discussion with Government in better-suited contexts.
3.11     The specific objectives of the proposed Project are: (i) to arrest
deterioration and avert the need for even greater investment on the Gedaref
- Port Sudan section of the Port Sudan to Khartoum road by reconstructing
or strengthening sections in need of urgent repair, thus protecting capital
investment in Sudan's main transport corridor and preventing transport
costs and delivery times from increasing; (ii) to plan and implement an
effective Axle Load Control System to prevent or reduce the abuse of the
road once the road has been rehabilitated; (iii) to institute a Pavement
Management System so that RBPC can better assess, alert itself to potential
problems and plan future road maintenance and reconstruction needs in a
timely fashion; and (iv) to continue supporting RBPC's institutional
development with technical assistance and training.
C. Project Description
3.12     The Project, for which an IDA Credit of SDR 65.7 million (US$82.2
million) is proposed totals US$114.4 million and includes: (i) road
construction, consisting of rehabilitation of the Khartoum - Port Sudan
Road (US$88.1 million), construction supervision (US$4.1 million) and
funding of a cost overrun on the Jebel Aulia - Ed Dueim Road construction
component of the Second Highways Project (US$15.6 million); (ii)
implementation of an Axle Load Control System, including provision of
technical assistance, training, and construction and equipment for
permanent and mobile weighbridges (including rescue and road safety
equipment) (US$4.6 million); (iii) implementation of a Pavement Management
System including provision of technical assistance and training (US$0.9
million); and (iv) institustional support for RBPC in the form of technical
assistance and training (US$1.1 million). Project components are discussed
in more detail below:



- 32 -
Khartoum-Port Sudan Road Rehabilitation Project
Road Works ProRram
…--------------------------------------------------------------__------------__------------
COST
SECTION         LENGTH         TYPE         KM          KM      US3/Km   ESTIMATE
KM       OF MEASURE       REC       OVAC    (1000)   US$ MILL.
---CONTRACT f 1------
1. Gedaref - Kassala   208.90  RECONSTRUCTION    31.70                269.92       8.68
OVAC 100 m                   62.40    181.28       8.46
OVAC 80 mm                   68.80    136.56       7.97
Rehabilitation                  OVAC 70 mm                   18.80    118.48       1.61
in X of total:                 OVAC BO mm                    28.70    108.84       2.57
100.00             OVAC 60 mm                   28.60      94.08      2.68
OVAC 40 mm                    0.00     80.64       0.00
Subtotal             208.90                     81.70    177.20                 31.84
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__------------
2. Kassala - Eriba     140.00  RECONSTRUCTION    26.90                 289.92      8.99
OVAC 100 m                    0.00    181.28       0.00
OVAC 80 mm                    1.80    136.62       0.18
Rehabilitation in               OVAC 70 mm                    9.00    118.48       1.06
X of total:                     OVAC 80 mm                    8.60    108.84       0.93
72.88             OVAC 50 am                    0.00      94.08      0.00
OVAC 40 mm                   58.60     80.84       4.68
NIL 38.7
Subtotal             101.30                     26.90      76.40                13.71
TOTAL CONTRACT #1      848.90  REC 100 mm         67.80                           15.56
X of Total:                     OVAC                        262.80                30.00
88.91                              310.20                148.83      46.66
-- CONTRACT # 2-----
8. Eriba - Malys       208.20  OVAC 80 mm                    13.00      87.36      1.14
Rehabilitation in X             OVAC 60 mm
of Total:                       OVAC 40 mm                   40.00     62.72       2.61
26.46             NIL 166.2
Subtotal                                                    53.00                 3.84
=,_________________________________________________________________________________________,
4. Halya - Suakin     146.60  RECOPSTRUCTION    12.40                 249.78      3.10
OVAC 80 mm                    7.80    109.78       0.86
OVAC 70 mm                   21.30    100.80       2.15
Rehabilitation In X             OVAC 60 mm                   24.90      87.38      2.18
of Total:                       OVAC 60 m                     6.60      76.04      0.49
100.00             OVAC 40 mm                   73.60      62.72      4.82
NIL
Subtotal                                         12.40    184.10                 13.38
---------------------------.------------------------------------__-----------__------------
5. Suakin - Port Sud   65.70  OVAC 80 mm                      4.90    109.78       0.64
OVAC 70 mm                   10.90    10.80       1.10
Rehabilitation In S             OVAC 50 mm                    5.10      76.04      0.38
of Total:                       OVAC 40 mm                   86.80     62.72       2.26
100.00             NIL
Subtotal                                                    56.70                 4.26
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__------------
TOTAL CONTRACT # 2     411.40                     12.40    248.80                 21.29
In X of Total:          62.28
GRAND TOTAL                  RECONSTRUCTION    70.00                           18.64
CONTRACTS 1+2:       760.30  OVERLAY                      496.40                48.19
In S of Total :         74.50    SUm            658.40                 118.00     86.83



- 33 -
Road Conatruction
3.13     Khartoum - Port Sudan Road Rehabilitation - Reconstruction and
Overlay. The primary component of the proposed Project will be the
reconstruction and overlay of the Khartoum - Port Sudan Road between
Gedaref and Port Sudan. The number of kilometers to be reconstructed or
given an overlay totals 566 km, or 75 percent of the entire Gedaref-Port
Sudan section. The amount of overlay varies from section to section, as
shown below, because the road was built in stages by different contractors
and subsequently has been subject to varyir.g degrees of wear and tear.
Overall, the project is designed to repair all damaged sections so that the
residual life of the entJre road is extended approximately te.a years
(measured in Equivalent Standard Axles ESA 80).
3.14     Reconstruction will comprise removal of the existing asphalt
surfacing, reprocessing of the base course for use as subbase and importing
new base and surfacing layers. The reconstructed sections will have a
pavement consisting of:
100 mm asphalt concrete surfacing.
150 mm crushed aggregate base course.
The overlay design and cost estimate is based on levelling the existing
pavement with an asphalt concrete regulating course and an asphalt concrete
overlay varying between 40 and 80 mm in thickness. After rehabilitation,
the pavement is expected to provide a design life of 6 - million ESA 80.
3.15     Rehabilitation of Bridges.  The Project also includes the
rehabilitation of about 111 bridges at a total cost of US$9.4 million.
3.16      Cost Overrun of Jebel Aulia - Ed Dueim Road Construction. The
Project includes a component to enable the Government to pay the agreed
arbitration award resulting from a dispute that arose from a disagreement
between the contractor and the client during the construction of the Jebel
Aulia - Ed Dueim road financed under the Second Highways Project (Credit
882-SU). There were considerable cost increases during execution, compared
with the tender. The contract document was ambiguous regarding foreign
currency payments for such cost increases. The dispuite was taken to
arbitration in accordance with the relevant provisions in the contract, and
the arbitration award was given in 1988, after the Credit was closed and
all funds disbursed.
Implementation of an Axle Load Control System
3.17     Technical Assistance and TraininR. The Project will assist
Government in initiating and implementing an Axle Load Control System that
will reduce the number of axle loads exceeding the legal limits. To this
end the Project provides for consultant services to plan, design, supervise
and implement an Axle Load Control System appropriate for Sudan, according
to outline Terms of Reference contained in Annex V. Although details will
be developed d-iring the course of the Project, it is envisaged that the
control of axle load will be undertaken by operating mobile weighbridges at
prepared sites. In addition, permanent weighbridge stations would be built



- 34 -
for transporters use in checking axle loads. RBPC is, by statute, charged
with protecting the road through the control of axle loads, but can only
enforce the law with the assistance of the Police. The Project thus
includes technical assistance and staff training for the Police Department
as well as the RBPC.
3.18     Civil Works - Construction of Permanent Weighbridge Stations.  The
Project will provide for the design and construction of permanent
weighbridge stations to be operated in conjunction with mobile
weighbridges: one in Port Sudan and one in Khartoum (or Wad Medani).
These stations will consist of a permanent scale and supporting facilities
including a parking area, office and staff housing. The main purpose of
these stations will be to provide a facility where truckers can check axle
loads without being prosecuted, so as to enable them to adjust vehicle
loading to comply with the legislation before embarking on a long journey.
These stations could also be used to verify the accuracy of the mobile
weighbridges, when the need arises. Government will investigate the
options for effective operation of the control system including the
possibility of having private entrepreneurs operate and maintain the
permanent weighbridge stations.
3.19     Construction of Mobile Weighbridges Sites.  The Project also
provides for the construction of about 20 strategically located weighbridge
sites where 6 mobile weighbridge units can safely set up their scales and
carry out axle load controls at irregular intervals. The sites will
consist of a concrete area with a scale-pit, on/off ramps, parking area and
an office.
3.10     Equipment.  The Project will provide two permanent and six mobile
weighbridges. The Project provides vehicles for the Police to patrol the
road and assist RBPC in enforcing the axle load limits (Annex VI).
3.21     The Project also includes patrol cars, radios, traffic safety aids
and rescue equipment (cranes) needed for the police to clear accidents and
disabled vehicles from the road. A small amount for computer support to
store and analyze traffic statistics and undertake analyses in conjunction
with RBPC's axle load enforcement activities also will be provided.
Implementation of a Pavement Management System
3.22     Technical Assistance and Training.  To enable RBPC to continually
monitor its paved road system so that road deterioration of the scale
taking place today on the Khartoum - Port Sudan road is not allowed to
continue without adequate provision for repair or reconstruction, and to
assist RBPC in better programming its road maintenance operations, the
Project will finance the establishment of a Pavement Management System for
the whole of the bitumenized network. The system will be designed and
implemented with technical assistance, according to outline Terms of
Referenice contained in Annex VII. Such technical assistance might be
provided through a twinning arrangement or through a consulting firm. The
Project also includes the cost of training RBPC staff to operate the
Pavement Management System.



- 35 -
3.23     Equipment.  The Project will provide equipment suffirient to
outfit two pavement evaluating teams, including vehicles, Benkleman beams,
and other relatively simple monitoring devices. Stand-by equipment will be
provided and a second team could be set up during the latter part of the
Project.
Institutional Support for RBPC
3.24     Technical Assistance and Training.  To continue supporting RBPC's
institutional development and to ensure that the organization as a whole
benefits from PMS data, the Project includes technical assistance to RBPC.
A team including a road maintenance expert, a planning expert and a
financial controller will be provided following the expiration of the
technical assistance contract funded under the ongoing Highway Project.
Terms of reference are shown in Annex VIII.
D. Cost Estimates
3.25     The total Project cost, including physical and price
contingencies, but net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$114.4
million with a foreign exchange component of US$98.3 million as shown in
the table of Project Cost Estimates. The estimates are based on December
1988 prices. The cost estimates for the main civil works components
including bridge rehabilitation are based upon the Engineer's estimates
submitted in December 1988. Price contingencies to provide for anticipated
cost increases over the implementation period are based on price increases
of 7.2Z in 1989 and 1990; and 4.42 each in years 1991, 1992 and 1993. The
international rates have been also used for local costs on the assumption
that the difference between the domestic and international inflation will
be offset by adjustments in the exchange rate of Sudanese Pounds.
Estimates for equipment are based on prices experienced in the Sudan for
the various items to be purchased. Cost estimates for the technical
assistance components are based on known unit man-month rates in the Sudan.
The estimates include cost of accommodation, transport and allowances for
local staff. Physical contingencies of 10.0 have been added to the base
cost. Price and physical contingencies total US$23.9 million, or 20.1? of
the total Project cost.



- 36 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES *
US8 Millon                X
Local      Forelgn   Total       Foreign
A. CIVIL WORKS
(1)   Khartoum-Port Sudan Road
Rehabilitation                         11.0       65.7       66.8        8ax
(li)   Construction of Weigh-Bridges              0.8        0.7        1.0        76X
(1ii)   Cost Overrun on Jebel Aulia-
Ed Duelm Road Construction              0.0       16.6       16.6       100X
SUBTOTAL                               11.8       72.1       83.4        86x
B. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
(I)   Axle Load Control System,
Weighbridges A Equipment                0.0        0.6        0.6       100X
(11)   Pavement Monagement System Equipment  0.0             0.2        0.2       100X
SUBTOTAL                                0.0        1.8        1.8       100X
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING
(1)   Construction Supervision                  0.9         2.2        8.1        70X
(11)   Axle Load Control System -
Technical Assistance A Training         0.0        1.0        1.0       100X
(iii)   Pavement Management System -
Technical Assistance A Training         0.0        0.6        0.5       100X
(iv)   Institutional Support for RBPC             0.0        0.7        0.7
SUBTOTAL                                0.9        4.4        5.8        82X
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__----
BASE COST                                       12.8       78.2       90.6       100X
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----
D. CONTINGENCIES
(l)   Physical (1OX)                             1.4        7.7        9.1
(il)   Price                                      2.4       12.4       14.8
SUBTOTAL                                8.8       20.1       28.9
-------------------------------------------------------------------__---------_---
GRAND TOTAL                                 16.1        98.8      114.4        86x
---Ba---e--co--ts--as---of--December-----1988---net---of--ta--es---and--d--t-_es.-
* Base costs as of December 1988 net of taxes and duties.



- 37 -
E. FinancinB
3.26    The total Project cost is US$114.4 million.  IDA's contribution
would be US$82.2 million, KfW's DM 30 million (US$16.1 million equivalent)
and Government will finance local costs of the Project, estimated at
US$16.1 million equivalent. As a condition of cross effectiveness the
Government would have to obtain the necessary cofinancing of the Project
from KfW. Details are shown below.
Financing Plan Table
Total Cost   ------- FUNDING ------
Incl. Cont.  IDA     KfW      GOS
A. CIVIL WORKS
(i) Khartoum-Port Sudan Road
Rehabilitation                 88.1     56.6     15.9     15.7
(ii)  Construction of Weighbridges      1.3      0.7      0.2      0.4
(iii)  Cost Overrun on Jebel Aulia-
Ed Dueim Road Construction      15.6    15.6
SUBTOTAL                        105.0     72.8     16.1     16.1
B.  EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
(i)  Axle Load Control Systems         2.1      2.1
(ii)  Pavement Management Equipment     0.3      0.3
----------------------------------
SUBTOTAL                          2.4      2.4      0.0      0.0
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES & TRAINING
(i)  Construction Supervision          4.1      4.1
(ii)  Axle Load Control System
TA and Training                 1.2      1.2
(iii)  Pavement Management System
TA and Training                 0.6      0.6
(iv)  Institutional Support for RBPC    1.1      1.1
----------------------------------
SUBTOTAL                          7.0      7.0      0.0      0.0
GRAND TOTAL INCL.
CONTINGENCIES                          114.4     82.2     16.1     16.1
…--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 38 -
F. Implementation
3.27     The RBPC will be responsible for execution of the Project.
Consultants will be used: (i) to prepare and supervise the civil works
components; (ii) to assist in the implementation of the Axle Load Control
and Pavement Management Systems; and (iii) to support RBPC's maintenance
capability and institutional development. Detailed engineering for the
main civil works component was carried out by consultants financed under a
grant from the Kingdom of Norway. The time schedule for implementation of
the Project is based on a 5-year period starting actual construction in
June 1990 (Table 3.1). The schedule is considered realistic since the
Project has been given high priority by Government and since the bulk of
the project consists of works to be carried out by international firms
under supervision by international consultants.
G. Procurement
3.28     Procurement arrangements for the Project are expected to apply as
shown in the Table hereunder. Civil works contracts for the Khartoum -
Port Sudan Road rehabilitation including bridge rehabilitation, probably
two in number, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
The weigh-bridge sites and stations will be constructed as part of the main
civil works contracts. Equipment for axle load measurements, pavement
monitoring, and rescue and traffic control will be procured through ICB.
Subject to IDA's approval, equipment, spare parts and vehicles, not
exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.2 million may be procured through international shopping and
up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 through LCB. Further, all
contracts greater than US$50,000 equivalent, would be subject to prior
review by IDA before final award of such contracts.
3.29     Consultants services for construction supervision, as well as
technical assistance for the Axle Load Control System, Pavement Management
System and institutional support for RBPC will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for consultancy services. Training will be
organized mainly through agreements with the technical assistance teams.



- 39 -
Procurement Arrangements
-------------------------------.--------------------__-----------------------__-------
PROJECT                     PROCUREMENT METHOD                       TOTAL COST
ICB           LCB           OTHER
Total   IDA   Totsl   I DA   Total   IDA  Total   IDA
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-------
CIVIL WORKS
Khartoum-Port Sudan Road
Rehabilitation                88.1  56.6                               88.1  68.6
Construction of
Weigh-bridges                  1.3   0.7                                1.8   0.7
Cost Overrun Jebel Aulia-
Ed Dusim Road Construction   0.0   0.0                 1656   15.6  1656   15.6
EQUIPMENT
Axle Load Control System -
Weighbridges and Equipment   2.0   2.0   0.1   0.1                    2.1   2.1
Pavement Management System -
Equipment                   0.3   0.3                                 0.8    0.3
CONSULTANT SERVICES and TRAINING
Construction Supervision                                  4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1
Axle Load Control System -
TA and Training                                         1.2   1.2    1.2    1.2
Pavement Management System -
TA and Training                                         0.8    0.8    0.6   0.6
Institutional Support for RBPC                            1.1    1.1   1.1   1.1
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-------
TOTAL                       91.7  68.7   0.1   0.1  22.6   6.1  114.4  82.2
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-------
H. Disbursements
3.30       Except for consultant services and training, of which most costs
are foreign, the Credit will be disbursed against foreign cost only; the
Government will be funding local costs. The Credit will be disbursed as
follows:
AMOUNT
(USS million)
A.  Civil Works                             100% of Foreign Expenditures
B. Equipment and spare parts                100% of Foreign Expenditures
C. Consultant Services and Training         100% of Total Expenditures



- 40 -
3.31     The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1993, and
the Credit closing date would be March 31, 1994. An estimated schedule for
disbursement funds is set out below. All disbursements will be fully
documented to the satisfaction of the Association. Payments against
contracts for equipment and technical assistance less than US$30,000 would
be disbursed under a statement of expenditure (SOE). Documents verifying
expenditures for the SOE are to be kept in a central place for review by
IDA supervision missions. Detailed engineering and bidding documents for
these contracts were completed in September 1989. The award of the civil
works contract will enable relatively quick disbursement, as the scheduled
implementation is three years. The estimated schedule of disbursements of
the Credit is shown in the Disbursement Table. A special account to
facilitate Project payments for all expenditures in the amount of
US$500,000 will be opened in the name of RBPC in a Bank acceptable for such
purpose to Government and IDA, probably the Eximbank in Khartoum.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year          Quarterly     Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending        Disbursement      at End of Suarter
(US$ Mill Iion)     (US MillIion)
FY 1990
March 31, 1990                16.0               16.0
June 30, 1990                 10.0               26.0
FY 1991
September 30, 1990            2.0                27.0
December 31, 1990             2.0                29.0
March 31, 1991                3.0                32.0
June 30, 1991                 5.0                37.0
FY 1992
September 30, 1991            6.0                43.0
December 31, 1991             8.0                49.0
March 31, 1992                6.0                56.0
June 30, 1992                 7.0                62.0
FY 1993
September 30, 1992             5.0               87.0
December 31, 1992             4.0                71.0
March 31, 1993                3.0                74.0
June 30, 1993                 3.0                77.0
FY 1994
September 30, 1993            2.0                79.0
December 31, 1993             2.0                81.0
March 31, 1994                 1.2               82.2



- 41 -
I. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
3.32     Project accounts will be maintained by RBPC with separate accounts
for each component.  RBPC's accounting system and staff are adequate to
maintain satisfactory project accounts.  Auditing of the RBPC is the
responsibility of the Auditor General and accounts on ongoing Projects have
been audited up to FY1986. The Government has agreed that an independeat
auditor would be appointed to audit the project accounts as required and
not later than six months after the close of each financial year. The
auditor would furnish the Association certified copies of the Project's
financial statements for such year and a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have requested.
3.33     The audit provided by the Auditor-General would make specific
reference to the special accounts operation and to expenditures withdrawn
unuer the SOE procedures and express a separate opinion on these matters.
Expenditures for equipment to be used by the police for traffic control and
enforcing axle load legislation will be separately audited and a report
prepared for that purpose.
3.34     RBPC will be responsible for Project reporting as follows:
(i) Inception, progress and final reports on technical assistance
by consultants for the Axle Load Control System, the Pavement
Management System and the experts assisting RBPC;
(ii) Quarterly progress reports and completion report on all Project
components by RBPC;
(iii) By January 1 of each year an audit report on the Project
account by the Auditor General or an independent auditor; and
(iv) Semi-annual progress reports on compliance with agreed action
plans regarding: (a) development of a road classification
system; (b) implementation of agreed organizational changes
within RBPC; (c) passage of revised legislation regarding axle
load limitations and implementation of an Axle Load Control
System; and (d) implementation of a PMS.
3.35     The Government agreed on these reporting requirements, as well as
a project completion report by RBPC in a form satisfactory to the
Association not later than six months after the project closing date.



- 42 -
J. Environmental Aspects
3.36        The Project is expected to have positive and negative influences
on the environment as shown in the Table below but since the main
components are limited to strengthening existing facilities, the
environmental effects will be very limited in the long run.
POSSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
ASPECT                  POSITIVE                    NEGATIVE
1. Short Term
(i)  Construction     Reduced *oil erosion by       Dust, detours,
activities        improvement to drainage      traffic delays,
fumes, spoil
materials.
(i)  Quarries                                       Dust, landscape,
noise, resources.
(Iii)  Bridges/Rehab.                                 Detours, delays.
2. Long Term
(i)  Improved road    Riding quality
(ii)  Bridge/Rehab.    Reduced risk of collapse
and traffic accidents
(iii)  Axle load         Reduced loads                 More vehicles.
control          and damage
(Iv)  PUS               Delay in next rehabilitation
operation
(v)  Rescue            More rapid clearance of
Equipment         accidents, reduction
and patrol        of related accidents;
Vehicles          faster repair of damaged
vehicles; and Improved
recovery chances of
accident victims.



- 43 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     Road transport in Sudan carries over 902 of the total commercial
traffic in the country. The proposed Project is aimed at
reconstruction/overlay of 566 km or about 48Z of the length of the main
road Khartoum-Port Sudan (1,182 km). The road is the only corridor to the
deep sea port and the backbone of the road network and land transport in
general. Therefore, it has not only a major role in the economic
development of Sudan, but also plays a critical role in the transport of
relief cargo.
4.02     The road traverses the most populated and economically active
areas in the country and is essential not only to export/import traffic
flow but also to the internal traffic. The economic rate of return for the
proposed road works (about 80o of the total project base costs) is about
36Z. The remaining Project components (weigh-bridges and other equipment
for axle load and traffic control and technical assistance, although
difficult to quantify, are expected to produce important benefits to road
safety and to the life and physical condition of the road. Only a modest
reduction of overloading was assumed in the analysis in recognition of the
difficult experience other countries have had when tackling the problem of
overloaded vehicles. The Project's economic rate of return, therefore, is
not very sensitive to the success of the Axle Load Control System.
B. Traffic on Khartoum-Port Sudan Road
4.03     The read is by far the most trafficked one in the country.  It
carries annually about 3.5 - 4.0 million tons of external dry cargo trade
(long distance traffic); sorghum, petroleum products, wheat and
construction materials have the largest share in imports, while cotton,
molasses and livestock are most prominent export items. However, there is
a heavy imbalance between the traffic flows resulting in 6:1 ratio on
inbound vs. outbound traffic. That in turn results in a relatively low
average load factor of long distance vehicles estimated at about 65Z. In
addition to the long distance traffic, there is also local traffic (over
one million tons per year) and sizeable passenger traffic; out of about 29
million passengers transported on roads (about 95? of all passenger
transport) the major part was carried on the Khartoum-Port Sudan road.
4.04     Traffic volumes on the road have been high with a significant
share of long distance vehicles, i.e., trucks and tractor trailers. On the
five road sections included in the Project, the largest traffic volumes
were recorded on Suakin-Port Sudan (57 km) and on the longest section
Gedaref-Kassala (209 kn.). In recent years only occasional traffic counts
have been undertaken on the road, either by consultants, by RBPC or by
MFEP. Summarized results of the counts for 1986 and 1988 together with
traffic forecast are presented in the table below. It is important to note
that: (i) the share of long distance trucks, even without medium size



- 44 -
trucks and buses, varies between 372 - 63Z; and (ii) there is a major
difference in traffic volumes among the sections on the whole road length
i.e., between 616 - 1,616 vehicles per day. That could be explained by the
composition of the traffic on the road, by its length and by the impact of
local traffic in specific road zones.
Road Traffic Flows in ADT
Actual                        Projected
1986           1988          1998        2002
Section              ADT   Hvy.Tr.  ADT   Hvy.Tr.  ADT  Hvy.Tr. ADT  Hvy.Tr.
Gedaref-Kassala      775      294    918    359    1180   460   1360    530
Kassala-Haiya        557      348    650    408      830   520    960    600
Haiya-Sinkat-
Suakin     760      338    767    408      980   520   1130    600
Suakin-Port Sudan   948       378    616    604    2070   770   2380    890
4.05     In the preparation of the Project there was no time to carry out
systematic traffic counts in 1988; instead only a limited counting was done
by consultants (Norconsult) on the sections affected by the project.
Although the results of 1988 counts might not be representative for the
year, they match the past trend of the traffic development on the road. In
the economic analysis, the year 1988 was taken as the base; possible minor
deviations in the actual traffic volume in 1988 should not, however, make
any major impact on the economic justification of the Project (para. 4.12).
4.06     In assessing future traffic growth and projecting average daily
traffic (ADT) for 1998 and 2002 (table above), a gradual increase of the
railway traffic (to 1.2 million tons by 1992 through 1996), assumed in a
recent railway project, was taken into account. Taking also into account
past development of the road traffic it was conservatively assumed that in
the period 1988-1998 traffic on the road would grow at an annual rate of
2.52. while in the following years (after 1998) it would grow at 3.5% per
year. In terms of tonnage, the traffic volume would thus increase from
about 6 billion ton/km (in 1988) to about 7.7 billion ton/km in 1998 and
8.8 billion ton/km in the year 2002.
C. Economic Analysis
4.07     The economic analysis was carried out in 1988 prices using an
estimated shadow exchange rate of ESd 8.0 = US$1.0. The investment period
was envisaged to take about three years. The proposed Project was not
assumed to generate any additional traffic on the road between Gedaref and
Port Sudan (para. 4.10).



- 45 -
4.08     The economic analysis was carried out by comparing "with" and
"without" the Project cases. In the "without" case, it is assumed that the
road will continue to deteriorate with traffic volumes increasing
nonetheless, but with increasing vehicle operating costs as the road
deteriorates.   In the "with" the Project case (proposed
reconstruction/overlay), it is assumed that significant improvements to the
road (pavement strengthening, reconstruction of shoulders and improvement
of roadside drains) will be made to eliminate the need for costly
reconstruction in the short-term, to protect the capital investments in
roads and to reduce Vehicle Operating Costs (VOCs) over the estimated 15-
year life of the civil works (1992-2006).
4.09     The main benefits to be derived from the Project will be savings
in vehicle operating costs. Additional benefits will result in time
savings and from improved road safety but they are difficult to quantify
and were not included in the analysis. The major direct beneficiaries of
the reduced transport costs and improved road safety will be truck and bus
owners/operators and passenger car owners. Since the road transport
industry is highly competitive, it is expected that a high proportion of
these benefits will be passed on to transport users -- urban/rural
population and to the consumers of goods being transported in the road
vicinity. The Government will also benefit from savings from deferred,
costly road reconstruction.
4.10     Vehicle operating costs on the Project roads have been calculated
separately for each road se-tion, for each year, taking into account the
condition of road surface, the expected deterioration from climate and
traffic, as well as the estimated maintenance operation to be carried out
on the roads. VOCs were calculated by consultants (Norconsult) using the
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM). Four typical vehicle
groups were selected (light vehicles, medium trucks, heavy truck trailers
and buses). During the estimated economic life, VOCs are, however,
expected to increase gradually -- at a higher pace for the "without the
Project" case. Savings in VOC were calculated for normal traffic only,
since no traffic was assumed to be generated as the result of civil works.
4.11     The economic analysis was carried out in economic prices, net of
taxes and duties. The major assumptions and inputs in the 15-year
cost/benefit analysis are as follows. The total costs included in the
economic evaluation comprise: (i) cost of civil works (reconstruction and
overlay); and (ii) 1O physical contingencies and cost of supervision;
appropriate costs of routine andJ periodic maintenance were also included in
the analysis. The benefits considered in the economic analysis include
savings in VOCs for the normal traffic growing at modest rates (para.
4.06).
4.12     The cost/benefit analysis based upon the assumptions explained in
paras. 4.07 - 4.11 shows that the proposed civil works yield high ERRs and
that the Project is economically well justified. The combined ERR for all
the project road sections (566 km) is estimated at 35.8%; ERR for
individual roads sections range from 23.9Z - 63.82 as shown in the table
below. The ERRs would have been even higher had the additional benefits
(para. 4.09) been taken into account. In the sensitivity analysis the



- 46 -
Project remains well-justified. Assuming an increase in project cost of
20Z and a simultaneous decrease of benefits by 20Z of the ERR for
individual road sections ranges from 15Z - 48.3Z.
Results of Economic Evaluation
Length of Sections
to Be Reconstructed
Link                      or Given an Overlay                   ERR (Z)
Gedaref-Kassala                  209                             31.9
Kassala-Haiya                    154                             23.9
Haiya-Sinkat                      82                             38.4
Sinkat-Suakin                     64                             41.4
Suakin-Port Sudan                 57                             63.8
All Road Section:           566                             35.8
4.13     The Project also includes additional funds (US$15.6 million
equivalent) required to cover the cost overrun on the contract for the
construction of the Jebel Aulia - Ed Dueim Road (158 km), originally
included under a previous road project (para. 3.12). The economic analysis
of the road construction to two-lane bituminous paved standard was carried
out on the basis of total actual construction costs in the period 1981-84
including the additional costs indicated above; the economic benefits were
based on: (i) savings in vehicle operating costs of regular traffic on the
road; (ii) savings in road maintenance costs; and (iii) benefits (50z) from
generated traffic by the new road. The actual traffic on the road,
following the road construction (1986) was relatively high ranging between
460 vpd - 930 vpd. With the cost overrun, the basis of economic life of 25
years the economic rate of return of the road construction is now 14.5?, as
compared to the appraisal estimate of 14Z.
D. Risks
4.14     On the civil works component of the Project, there is little risk
of implementation since the work will be carried out by contract awarded
under ICB. The risk of cost escalation is also small and in any event, the
economic rate of return remains high even with substantial cost increases.
With respect to the objective of extending the life of the entire road by
rehabilitating sectors most in need of urgent repairs, there is a risk that
sections not included in the Project might fail and require investment
sooner than anticipated. This risk is reduced by the introduction in the
Project of equipment and technical assistance to increase RBPC's capacity
to carry out periodic maintenance operations. Furthermore, during



- 47 -
identification and preparation of the upcoming Fourth Highway Project, the
performance of the Khartoum - Port Sudan road will be closely monitored,
and if necessary, a second rehabilitation phase will be included in
Highways IV tentatively scheduled for implementation in 1991-96.
4.15     The major risk of the Project relates to the institutional
measures included in the Project, introduction of an Axle Load Control
System and a Pavement Management System. The Axle Load Control System,
which aims at reducing overloading and preventing premature deterioration
of the reconstructed road, may not be successful due to possible opposition
from road transport users, failure of RBPC and the Police to carry out
fully the proposed system, or general socio-behavioral factors. Similarly,
RBPC's implementation of the Pavement Management System may not be
successfully implemented because of possible organizational and managerial
weaknesses. These risks are reduced by the fact that a technical
assistance team funded by the Highways III Project is now in place and by
the recognized need for these measures and the strong commitments given
both by RBPC and Government to implement them.



- 48 -
V. RECOMMENDATION
5.01     Agreements were reached on the following matters:
(a) GOS to establish, not later than July 1, 1990, axle load
limits acceptable to the Association; take not later than
July 1, 1991, all measures necessary to enforce such limits,
including the implementation of the Axle Load Control System
and appropriate arrangements for the cooperation of RBPC and
the traffic police (para. 2.45);
(b)  GOS to establish and thereafter maintain a Pavement
Management System within RBPC to monitor Sudan's bitumen road
network, not later than July 1, 1991 (para. 3.22);
(c) an action plan for establishing a road classification system
within Sudan (paras. 1.30, 2.04 and 2.19);
(d) an action plan for implementing agreed organizational changes
within RBPC (paras. 1.30, 2.22, 2.31 and 2.33);
(e) to improve RBPC's operational autonomy, by March 31, 1990,
GOS would empower the Board of Directors of RBPC to approve
expenditures of up to £Sd 250,000 to be incurred by RBPC in
accordance with its budgetary provisions (para. 2.30);
(f) RBPC to present to the Association a maintenance plan, by
September 30 of each year, relating budget to physical works
programmed for the subsequent year and relating work to be
accomplished with maintenance needs of the road network in
the long term (para. 2.32); and
(g) RBPC to prepare quarterly progress reports on project
components and on compliance with agreed action plan
(para. 3.34).
5.02     As a condition of effectiveness, Government would have obtained
the necessary cofinancing of the Project from KfW (para. 3.26).
5.03     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project is suitable
for a Credit of SDR 60.2 million (US$82.2 million equivalent) at standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
Table 2.1
Existing Constructed Roads
Road Section                            Total Length         Road Type
in Km.
Khartoum - Wad Medani                       187                Paved
Wad Medani - Gedaref                        227
Khartoum - Jebel Aulia                       40
Omdurman - Waid Sedina                       22
Khartoum - El Geili                          42
Summit - Erkowit                             34
Tokar - Sallalat                             17
Gedaref - Hillat                             17
Kalaskola - White Nile                        6
Gedaref - Kassala                           220
Kassala - Haiya                             350
Haiya - Port Sudan                          206
Dubeibat - Dilling - Kadugli                188
Wad Medani - Sennar                         107
Sennar - Kosti                              110
Jebel Aulia - Rabak                         267
Nyala - Kas - Zalingei                      210
Sennar - Singa                               70
Wad Medani - Barakat                         15
El Obeid - Dubeibat                          94               Gravel
El Fasher - Nyala                           225
Juba - Bor                                  150
Juba - Nimule                               175
Juba - Aba                                  213
Juba - Kapoeta                              314
Juba - Wau - Raga                           510
Tombura - Yambio - Maridi - Juba            540
Source: Roads and Bridges Public Corporation.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
Table 2.2
Roads Under Construction or Proposed for Construction
Road Section               Length in Km           Comments
A. Under Construction
Rabak - Renk                         166     Up to Jebelen
El Obeid - Tendelti                  185
Kosti - Tendelti                     116
Sennar - Damazin                     228     (Sennar - Singa completed)
Singa Bridge                          -
Atbara - Berber - Abidya              60
B. Design Complete
Gedaref - Gallabat                   154
Kassala - Sabdarat                    30
Wad El Huri - Sim sim                 77
Gedaref - Suki                       178
Kadugli - Talodi                     100
Geili - Shendi - Atbara               97     Tendering initiated, 1989
Construction Schedule.
Dilling - Habila                      42
C. Under Study
Zalingei - Geneina - Chad                    Pre-Feasibility Study
Border                             193      completed
El Obeid - En Nahud                  215
Khartoum - Kassala                   401
Khartoum - Wad Medani (East)         210
Atbara - Haiya                       300     Study completed
Atbara - Marawi - Dongola - Halfa  1190
Gedaref - Gallabat                   154     Feasibility Study completed
D. Proposed for Study
Omdurman - Dongola                   547
En Nahud - El Fasher                 452
Talodi - Malakal                     246
Wad Medani - Ed Dueim                138
Renk - Malakal                       310
Malakal - Bor                        400
Port Sudan - Tokar                  1000
Source: Roads and Bridges Public Corporation and Ministry of Economic
Planning.



- 51 -
ANNEX I
Table 2.3                              Page 3 of 8
Proiect Ranking by Net Present Value According to
Appropriate Road Surface
Project   AADT  in  Operating  Year
Length    ____________                    NVP      Norconsult
Project                          Km       lot        Sth        10th   (£Sd. M.)     IRR
Khartoum - Wad Medani           210     6,222    89,189    12,280       656.8       49.0
Omdurman - Dongola              647        876       470       636       180.4      22.5
Singa - Damazine                           768     1,028     1,278       189.6      82.0
Khartoum - Atbara - Haiya       600        273       J83        468      168.5      22.0
Um Ruwaba - El Obeid            150        309       407       482        61.6      26.1
Kosti - Um Ruwaba               164        326       424        506       66.8      23.4
Wad El Huri - Sim Sim            77        229       818       383        27.4      23.4
El Gedaref - El Suki            178        126       178       217        16.4      21.0
Now Halfa - Kashim El Girba      97        263       340       413        12.1      18.8
En Nahu - El Obeld              216        184       172       204        11.4      18.0
En Nahud - Nyala                           128       162        194        8.6      18.8
Rabak - Renk                    168        148       185       219         7.8      18.8
El Gedaret - Um Barskat         110         99       183       158         1.2      16.9
Dilling - Habila                 42         97       132        156        1.1      18.8
Khartoum - Kassala              401        206       278       847        (0.04)    15.1
Renk - Malakal                  810        114       147        172       (0.5)     14.9
Kadugli - Talodi                100         67        73        8B       (12.0)      4.6
El Gedaref - Galabat            154         67        76        92       (16.1)      6.1
Zalingei - Geneina - Adre       198         81        39        48       (84.8)      (4.1)
Talodi - Molakal                246         48        67        67       (84.8)      0.7
Malakal - Bor                   400         77        98       114       (38.8)      6.5
Ed Damar-Marawi-Dongola-Halfa               98       100       121       (97.8)      6.6
En Nahud - El Fasher            462       202        254       308      (127.8)     18.1
The ranking of projects accords fairly closely with the general order of priorities given
by Government to road construction. The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation has, an one
of Its main aims for road development, the linking of the road system on the north-south
axis, with the Khartoum-Atbara-Halys road as of particular Importance. Thle general aim Is
fulfilled in the rankings. Tho sest-west was given as a second priority with the El Obeid
- En Nahud road an of particular Importance. The rankings of the east-west road projects
accord with this.



LEGEND: F = Feasibility, Ongoing _. compI.
D = Design, ongoing or cropi.
Table 2.4 - RDPC,  IGUWAY INVES2MENT PROMRAI6, 1989-98                                           C = construction, ongoing or compl.
Length     Coat                   Donor                           Annual Expenditures
Project                     km     LSd Mill   Status        Support          88/  89/  90/  91/  92/  93/  94/  95/  96/  97/
89   90   91   92   93   94   95   96   97   98
CRO ROAMS
1.  Koeti-Tendelti              116        250      C          NORAD(D),ADB(C)    40   40   40   20
2.  Tendelti-El Obeid           185        830      C          USAID (C)          100  100  100   60
3.  Kadugli-Talodi              100        150      C          EC(D), USAID(C)               25   50   50   25
4. 31 ObeLd-E1 Dibeibat         100        175      C          Dutch Aid (C)       90   30
5.  Sennar-Singa-Damazin        220        570      c          Kuwait/AF(C)        50  150  150  150   70
6.  31 Pasher-l Geneina        360        650      C          Italy (C)                90   90                                          1
7.  Singa Bridge                           175      C          China (C)           20   60   60   35                                     >
8. QLliL-Atbara-Haiya           540       1900      F,D        Arab Fund (F+D)                   100  300  300  300  300   300  300 ~
9.  Odur an-Dongola             547        650      p                                                       100  200  200   200
10. Western Sudan Bridges                   64      D                                        10   20   20   14
11. E1 Debelbat-Kadugli         187        145      C          EC (D+C)                           20   50   50   25
12. Juba-Kenya border           345        250      D          EC (D+C)                      30   70   70
13. 31 ObeLd-En Nahud           215        360      F          DANIDA/ADB (F)                           60  120  120   60
14. Khartoum-Wad Nedani(East)  186         550      F                                                                        100  200
15. Rabak-Renk                  166        100      D          KfW (D)                                            15   40    35   15
16. Wad 31 Hurl-Sim Sim          77        125      D                                                                         30   30
17. 31 Gedaref-El Suki          178        250                                                                         50    50   50
18. Dusim-Managil-Medanl        190        270                 Arab donors (C)               45   90   90   45
19. En Nahud-Nyala              270        300                 USAID/Japan                        50   50   50   50   50    50
20. Nyala-Zalingei              170        150      C          FRG/RfW (C)         1S   20
21. En Nahud-El Fasher          452        675      F                                                             50  100   100  100
22. Renk-Malakal                310        500                                                                         50    50  50
23. Talodi-Malakal              246        400      F                                                                         50  50
24. Suakin-Toker                120        300                                                                    50  100   100   50
inuCO,wAax ROADS                                                                                                                      m 
25. Um Rwaba-Abasia             100         40      C          USAID (D+C)              10   10   10   10                             X x
26. Abasia-Abugebeina           100        100      C          USAID (D+C)         20   20   20   20   20                             o
27. New Halfa-Kashim el Girba   97                  D          Kuwait (D)
28. Dilling-Habila               42        350      D                       )                25  100  100  100   25                   x
29. Wad Medani-Abulharaz        145                 D
TOTALS                    5,764    10,279                                    335  520  605  795  890  804  835  950 1,06S  845
....==== ==.............===



Table 2. 5
SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Revenue Collection from the Road Sector
(LSd Million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------------------------------______
69/70 70/71 71/72 72/73 73/74 74/76 76/76 78/77 77/78 78/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/i4 Average
15 Yenr
A Import Duties
1. Passenger Cars    0.83  0.35  0.90  1.86  1.14  2.90  5.72  10.21  3.83  6.63  15.73  16.91  19.32  18.28 29.40  8.83
2.  Box-Cars          0.68  0.38  0.78  1.00  0.98  3.77  4.44  2.88  4.41   4.35  3.31  6.10  20.90  14.43  13.73  6.87
3.  Buses             0.52  0.29  0.26  0.27  0.55   0.75  0.17  0.52  0.22  0.76  2.74   1.22  1.61   1.88  2.02  2.10
4.  Lorries A Trucks  0.88  0.84   1.21  0.24  1.27  0.36  7.22  0.74  1.79  0.82  1.20  1.23  7.21  14.63  3.33  3.24
5.  Other Types of
Motor Vehicles  0.72  0.20  0.21  0.65  0.42   1.38  2.39  1.48  1.24   1.06  1.18  1.24  1.34   1.25  2.48  1.13
6. Spare Parts        1.70  1.58   1.62  0.03  2.3S  3.47  2.01  3.74  4.16  6.28  6.03  8.61  8.01  10.40  16.17   6.10                 w
7.  Tires             0.79  0.94  0.83  0.83  1.43  2.08   1.33  2.75  3.31  4.16  2.74  5.19  3.25  0.99   1.76  2.16
8.  Benzine           0.28  0.23  0.93  0.34  0.48  0.17  0.18  0.21  0.26  0.41  0.65  0.39
9. Gas Oil            0.63  0.92   1.23  2.03  8.30  2.09  0.86  1.27  0.27  0.4,  0.85  1.71  21.20 29.16  28.51  10.83
10. Crude Fuel Prod.  4.74  4.81   4.71  5.87  9.38  3.13  0.19  0.90  0.42  0.87  3.18  3.92
11. Other Type of
Petroleum       1.91   1.94  2.08  1.01  1.62  1.34  1.67  1.97  2.06   1.89  2.08  2.76
B. Excise Duties
1. Fuel                -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -   20.20  19.51  26.02 27.72  14.60  2.44  2.49 15.97
2. Tires               -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -    0.71  0.64   1.78  2.67  1.33
C. Vehicle Licensing 0.23  0.30  0.38  0.46  0.64  0.82  0.70  0.78  0.86  0.94  1.01  1.08  1.21   1.58  3.09  0.92
D. Vehicle Surcharge,  -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -    2.09  2.37   2.68   3.03  2.64   1d 
E. Road Tolls          -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -    0.97  0.82  1.15   1.26  0.81         m
F. Driving Licensing 0.02  0.02  0.03  0.04  0.06  0.06  0.07  0.08  0.09  0.10  0.11  0.12  0.14  0.16  0.34  0.10    U I
TOTAL                13.93  12.40  15.14 16.32 28.62  22.11  27.84  27.49 43.09  48.87  65.74 81.97 100.82 100.88 110.28 60.74
…---------------------------------------------------------------       - -------------------------------------------------------------   - _



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
Table 2.6
Road Traffic Accidents In Sudan 1978-OS
Total
Yeur       Death      X    Serious      X     Others    X      total         X    Accidents
Index
(1989 = 100)
1978/74     470       9     1,246      23     8,783      68     5,448       100      114
1974/75     478       9     1,288      26     8,618    a6       5,874       100      11a
1976/78     269      48     3,905      48     3,992      49     8,168       100         -
1978/77     86B       9     1,862      23     8,992      68     6,879       100      208
1977/78     68O      10     1,882      26     4,116      64     6,874       100      135
1978/79     692      12     1,824      81     8,260      56     6,778       100      121
1979/80     668       9     1,828      26     4,816    6s       7,801       100      153
1980/81     728       9     2,027      27     4,862      84     7,606       100      180
1981/82     740      10     1,862      26     4,698      64     7,295       100      164
1982/88     479       8     1,818      27     8,808    a6       5,903       100      124
Source:  Central Traffic Office in the Sudan (Khartoum)



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
Table 2.7
Fuel Supply and Vehicle Fleet 1974-84
Total fuel consumption                                 Index fuel
Year      in road transport *              Vehicle fleet       availability
Metric tons      Index        Number       Index       per vehicle
1974=100                  1974=100       1974=100
1974       218,473          100         79,079          100           100
1975       245,373          112         79,135          100           112
1976       284,794          130        101,591          128           102
1977       318.867          146        121,769          154            94
1978       332,446          152        135,062          171            89
1979       362,990          166        146,809          186            89
1980       400,278          183        165,270          209            88
1981       420,035          192        203,246          257            75
1982       397,123          182        263,098          333            68
1983       430,044          197        244,067          309            64
1984       397,123          182        263,098          333            55
Source: GPC, TSB 1984/85.
* 100% benzine consumption and road transport's actual share of total gas
oil concumption.



Table 3. 1
Project Implementation Schedule
99        90                                91                                 92                                93                                  94
Sep  Nov  Jan  MarApr  JunJul  Sep  NovDec  Feb  AprMay  JulAug  OctNov  JanFeb  Apr  JunJul  Sepflct  Dec  Feb  AprWal  JulAugSeP  Nov  Ja
StatuslI    1    2    1  2       1 2     4    1  3     1    1 1       1 1     1 1      2  3     1    1 1      1  1     1    1    1 3       12 1        1    4
A.KHARTOUN - PORT SUDAN ROAD        0 N                        ..                                                                     
Tender period                                                                                                                                   .     .
Wvard supervision contract         A                  .        ..                                                                                 
Supervision of Civil Works
Contract Peri.A
Payment of cost overrun                               N                                                                                                            
B.AXLE LOAD CONTROL SYSTEN          On...                                     ....                                                           ..       .    ..
Design Meilhbridges EConsulti                                                                                     .   .        . ..          .        .n.                   
0%
Equipment procuresent              A...                                                                                                      ..       .     .
V.cighbridge construction          U                                                                                                                               
Tecbnical Assistance I Traimig.                        .
PR-Campaigne                                                                                                              .                       
C.PAVEMENT NANAEMENT SYSTEM         D M                                                           .       ..                                                 
Design by Consultan%..                                                           ....                                                .                                
Technical Assistance STraining
Procurement of Equipsent.                              ..
o SUPPORT FOR ABPC                  Dl                                                    ...                                                  
TIA and Traininq                    C
0  -



- 57 -
ANXII
Page 1 of 2
PFgure 2,1
Residual Life (1986) in ESA8O and in Years
wtotm- Port Sudan  ( 1114km)
'-4
0
'-4
p4
Iharto~a    Wsd         Gedarf *    Kasai&
MeI'   ^        -                                       Sudan
0340                                      800.                  1200
OCoLflO9, b
Vad %11danL - Ko.tL        I                J.Aulo -Ed  XWaI  (153a)
Cu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Cu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0~~~~~~~~~
0.
Wed  Seenar Kostt    k1                                Ed
Oa.da.ge,  kmhoNnogs,  km



SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE ROADS AND BRIDGES PUBLIC CORPORATION
H.E. MINISTER OF CONSTRUCION
a PUBLIC WOVIaS
DHIRECO  EEAL
DDIIROR C8IENA
P5~OtW.   DTRBA          caDLIERTI.                Da.oira    4tERTOtCrdOR                                              a~A            8e
MECHANICAS                                                               PtOJECTS                            0A
MANAUR                                                              TEEMICAL~~~~~~~~~~~~WO            ROEE            ANO
SUPRSWIS11IN
S: OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LBOAOtE
DIRTwrm
DIFtECTOR  OUtECtOR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~DI~ORLAO~1WE
1~4EHANICAL    MAIN    H. Q.     SUB-    MW4ANICAL                                           EnVI
CHnF                                                         I CHIE41F  11F  41F  I04CHSF B4. I41 I cHIS:     CHIEF  01F     DRT~DREO
ENGINEEFt                                                  n                            EMD~~~~~~~~ECIEE
rLtIN    UP   ISION   DEII  SLIS       LAB.      cmT       M.  G.   ET
Source: Roads A Bridges Public Corporation
Figure 2. 2



SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads & Bridges Public Corporation Equipment Inventory
RBPC Equipment of the Regions: Khartoum/Sennar/Eastern Region w/out Aroma and Kinkat (about 70X)
OPERATIONAL          REPAIRABLE              SCRAP
DESCRIPTION                           TOTAL       No         X          No                   No         %
Dozers (size DO up)                                  38         14       38.84       16       42.10         8      21.05
Scrapers (incl. elevator scrapers)                    19         1        5.26        6       31.57        12      63.15
Graders (all sizes)                                   80        15       18.76       29       36.25        38      45.00                      qv
Wheel loaders                                        46         1S       33.33       21       48.88         9      20.00
Traxcavators                                           8         3       37.60        2       25.00         3      37.60
Excavators                                            10         2       20.00        2       20.00         6      60.00
Trencher                                               1        --        ---          1     100.00        --        ---
Steel rollers                                         s0         7       23.33         2       6.66        21      70.00
Vibrating rollers                                     15        __                    5       33.33        10      66.66
Tyre rollers                                         21          6       28.67        9       42.86         6      28.57
Tamping compactors (CAT 826)                           2         2      100.00       --        --_         --        --
Towed tyro rollers                                    13         1        7.69        2       16.38        10       76.92          0 H
Towed vibrating rollers                               3         --  ---              --        ---          3     100.00
Towed tamping rollers                                 6         __                    5       83.33         1      16.66



SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads & Bridges Public Corporation Equipment Inventory
RBPC Equipment of the Regions: Khartoum/Sennar/Eastern Region w/out Aroma and Kinkat (about 70%)
OPERATIONAL          REPAIRABLE              SCRAP
DESCRIPTION                      TOTAL       No          X        No          X        No          X
Road finisher                                        15         5        33.33       3        20.00        7       48.88
Small compaction rollers (hand leaded)                7         1        14.28       3        42.85        3       42.86
Road stabilier (HARNISHFEGER)                         I                                         -          1 _    100.00
Towed disc plows                                      S        __                    4        80.00        1       20.00                       l
Towed rippers                                         4                                         - -        4      100.00
Towed rotary cutter (mixer)                           4        __                                          4      100.00
Mobile compressor                                   22          7        31.81      12        64.64        3       13.63
Crawler crane                                         1                              I_  1   100.00       __
Automobile cranes                                     9         9        33.33       6        66.56        1       11.11
Cranes on truck chassis                               2         1        60.00       1        60.00       __
Asphalt mixing plants (different sizes)               8         4        50.00       1        12.60        3       37.50                X
Sub-base mixing plants                                1                   ---        1       100.00       __        __                  H
Concrete mixing plants                                2                    - -       2       100.00       __
Bitumen spray tanker (black topper)                   6         3        60. 00      1        16.86        2       33.33



SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads & Bridges Public Corporation Equipment Inventory
RBPC Equipment of the Regions: Khartoum/Sennar/Eastern Region w/out Aroma and Kinkat (about 70%)
OPERATIONAL         REPAIRABLE              SCRAP
DESCRIPTION                      TOTAL       No         U        No          U        No          X
Mobile asphalt batching plants                       4         2        60.00       2        60.00 _
Towed bitumen sprayer                                3         2        88.66       1        33.33      __
Formtractors                                         7                    - -       3        42.85       4        57.14
Add-on chipping spreaders                            3         2        6666 .8                           1       33.33                      ON
Forklifts                                            9         4        44.44       3        33.33       2        22.22                      1
Trucks-tippers+lorries(FIAT 897NP/30oPC/e82N3)   101           8         7.92      32        31.68      61        60.39
Trucks - all other FIAT types                       11          1        9.09       3        27.27       7        63.63
MITSUBISHI'FUSO - tippers + lorries                 66        33        50.00      25        37.87       8        12.12
NISSAN - tippers + lorries                           a         2        33.33       3        60.00       1        16.68
All other manufacturers - tippers + lorries        148        28        18.91      24        16.21      96        64.86 8
_              _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__                _ __        __                                           c
Water + fuel tankers                                38        16        42.10      10        26.31      12        31.57
Road tractors                                        6         4        66.66       2        33.33      __
Concrete mixer trucks                               10                                        -- ___  _    10    100.00           p.
Rock dumper                                         20         3        15.00  j              ___       17        85.00



SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads & Bridges Public Corporation Equipment Inventory
RBPC Equipment of the Regions: Khartoum/Sennar/Eastern Region w/out Aroma and Kinkat (about 70%)
OPERATIONAL          REPAIRABLE              SCRAP
DESCRIPTION                       TOTAL      No          X        No          X        No          %
Flat semi-trailers                                    7         1        14.28       4        67.14        2       28.57
Low loader - semi-trailers                            4         2        50.00       2        50.00      --
Hydraulic dumpers                                     6         _                                          6      100.00
Bottom dumper - semi trailer                          2                                        -- -_      _2      100.00
Forklifts                                             8         3        37.50       3        37.50        2       2S.00
Generators (up to 100 kVA)                            9         4        44.44        5         65.55     -_
Generators (more than 100 kVA)                       28        14        53.84       10       38.48        2        7.68
Drill riggs with hammer                               a         4        60.00        a       37.50        1       12.60
Crusher plants                                        6         2        33.33       2        33.33        2       33.33
Jaw and cone crushers - mobile and stationary                                                                                       m
not connectod to crusher plants                      18        __         ___        8        37.50       10       62.60            4- 
Chipping washing units                                3         a       100.00      --         ---        --         --o
sum                                                 904       228       (25.22U)   277       (30.64U)   399       (44.13X)



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Institutional Support for RBPC
Introduction
Under the Third Highway Project, IDA financed technical
assistance to RBPC to improve general planning, road maintenance and
mechanical workshop operation. RBPC would like to continue this
assistance, particularly because the organization is in the process of
examining its policies with respect to its finance, operations and
institutional framework. RBPC therefore has decided to include in the
project a component of a technical assistance team of three experts to
be provided through a consulting firm for a period of three years as
follows:
1 financial expert
1 road maintenance engineer
1 transport economist/planner
The individual expert will work within the RBPC organization
and provide advise and assistance as required in order to complete the
implementation of the Highway Organization and Investment Study
recommendations and the proposals presented by the technical assistance
team under the Third Highway Project. Each expert is expected to
prepare quarterly reports to the Director General on his activities.
The outlined terms of reference for each post are given below:
1. Financial Expert
The expert will be the principal financial and administrative
adviser to the Director of Finance and Administration of RBPC. He/she
will, advise, assist and participate in the following tasks:
(i)     RBPC's efforts to improve its financial base and to
develop concrete policy proposals with respect to
improving its financial, operational and human resources.
(ii)     The running of the finance and administrative department,
including recruitment and training of staff members.



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
(iii)     RBPC's efforts to implement recommendations in the HOIS
regarding the improvement of its accounting, budget,
procurement, planning, management information and stores
management systems.
(iv)     RBPC's efforts to streamline its stores and supplies
operations.
(v)     introducing financial statements and budgets that present
all RBPC's activities and make possible the preparation
of annual and multi-year programs of maintenance and
construction; the preparing of annual budgets, financial
reporting and audit reports, etc.
Qualifications
The financial expert should be experienced in cost accounting
and financial management. In particular, he/she shall:
Mi)     hold a degree in accounting or butsiness administration.
(ii)     have at least 10 years experience in his field, of which
at least two years should have been in the field of
managing finance and administration for a highway
administration or similar government agency.
(iii)     knowledge of spreadsheet programs and other appropriate
modern office technology;
(iv)     have a working knowledge in reading, writing and speaking
English, and preferably also, Arabic,
2. Road Maintenance Engineer
The road maintenance engineer will report to, and take
directions from, the Director of Maintenance and be part of the Head
Office maintenance management team. He/she will assist in:
(i)     RBPC's efforts to improve its financial base and to
develop concrete policy proposals with respect to
improving its financial, operational and human resources.



_ 65 -
ANNEX r7
Page 3 of 4
(ii)     implementation of an appropriate management system from
which annual and multi-year road maintenance programs can
be developed as recommended by consultants funded under
the Third Highway Project.
(iii)     provide headquarters support for the technical assistance
teams to assist in the introduction of the Pavement
Management System and the axle-load control system.
(iv)     propose and assist in implementing annual road
maintenance programs, and
(v)     assist in the implementation of the training programs.
Qualifications
The road maintenance engineer will have:
(i)     a university degree in civil engineering
(ii)     at least ten years experience in the field of highway
engineering, including design, construction and
maintenance.
(iii)     at least four years management experience in a highway
maintenance organization.
(iv)     some knowledge of training methods; and
(v)     a working knowledge of English and preferable Arabic
3. Transport Economist/Planner
The transport economist will be the principal economic adviser
to RBPC. The adviser will report to, and take directions from, the
Director of Planning, RBPC, with reasonable access to the Director
General of RBPC and through him to data from other departments as
necessary for him to perform his duties. He/she will, as a member of
the Planning Unit, advise, assist and participate in the following
tasks:
(i)     running of the Unit, including recruitment and training
of new members;



-66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
(ii)     RBPC's efforts to improve its financial base and to
develop concrete policy proposals with respect to
improving its financial, operational and human resources.
(iii)     running the traffic counting system;
(iv)     establishing an axle load control system;
(v)     preparation of feasibility studies;
(vi)     preparation of development plans in the road sector,
review of government investment plans and budget
allocations for the transport sector with particular
reference to highways and trucking.
(vii)     reviewing the economic implications of existing and
proposed changes in legislation;
(viii)     ensuring good contact with respect to economic matters,
between RBPC and Government Ministries, parastatals and
the private sector;
(ix)     prepare feasibility studies and loan application for
financial assistance from outside lending agencies; and
(x)     assist in preparing the annual budget.
Qualifications
The expert will be a transport economist experienced in the
execution of transport projects. Ir. particular, he/she shall:
(i)     hold a degree in economics;
(ii)     have at least 10 years experience as a transport
economist, for part of that time in a senior capacity;
(iii)     be experience in dealing with Government officials at a
high level;
(iv)     be familiar with the techniques of cost/benefit analysis,
and the use of modern office technology; and
(v)     have a working knowledge in readirg, writing and speaking
English and preferable also, Arabic.



- 67 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Development of Axle Load Control System
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
Somie of the main highways in the Sudan are deteriorating rapidly
as a result of inadequate maintenance and of severe overloading. As part
of a strategy to deal with this situation, Government intends to control
vehicle axle loads. For this purpose, Government requires the services of
an engineering consultant with relevant experience to advise the RBPC and
the Police on the form and operation of an Axle Load Control System.
The legal framework governing road traffic is being reviewed.
Meanwhile, the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) has carried out
a program of research on overloading during the second half of 1988 under
the Third Highway Project. This pilot scheme has provided some initial
experience in measuring axle loads.
Objective
Design and implement an effective axle load control system to
reduce abuse of the road system in Sudan. It is envisaged that this system
will be operated by RBPC in cooperation with the Police.
Services to Be Provided by the Consultant
Revise the Legal Framework
Review existing legislation for vehicle weight and axle load
control in light of relevant experience in other countries.
If necessary, advise on modifications to the legislation and/or
the regulations related to vehicle axle loading and control. Assist as may
be required with redrafting legislation and/or regulations.
Design the Axle Load Control System
Review the findings and the operating experience of the pilot
scheme for axle load measurement undertaken by RBPC.
Review equipment options (including permanent and mobile units
and combinations of these) in the light of all operational factors and
costs.
Prepare preliminary design and cost estimates for alternative,
effective and practical axle load control systems (identifying any
acceptable options). Provide a plan for the implementation of the proposed
recommended system.



- 68 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
Advise on the need for, and form of, facilities to assist
transport operators in conforming with axle load regulations.
Advise on the recurrent funding required to operate the proposed
system and on the scope for establishing all or part of the system as self-
financing.
Subject to agreement, prepare the detailed design and cost
estimate for the selected system, defining fully all inputs, operations and
administrative requirements.
Set Up the Axle Load Control System
Specify equipment for the agreed system. If so required, assist
in the procurement of the equipment.
If so required, supervise construction of the permanent works.
Supervise the installation and commissioning of equipment.
Draft the operating procedures for RBPC and the Police. These
must cover all aepects such as action on an overloaded vehicle, security
arrangements, dealing with abnormal loads, prosecution procedures etc.
Draw up, in consulting with RBPC and the Police, a program for
training all staff required. This should include arrangements for any
refresher training which is recommended and for integrating new appointees.
Provide examples of suitable publicity material and assist the
Police to plan the campaigns to inform the public and transport operators.
Implementation
Monitor the public awareness campaign and assist RBPC with the
campaign for informing the transport operators. Advise on the need for,
and form of, any follow-up publicity.
Train RBPC and Police staff and advise on the requirements for
training new staff.
Assist with the operation of the system on a trial basis and
with the introduction of any desirable modifications.
Services to Be Provided by Government
Office accommodation
Personnel from RBPC and the Police.
All necessary administrative and support facilities.



- 69 -
AX VI
RESCUE EqUIPMENT FOR THE POLICE
UNIT COST TOTAL
ITEM                DESCRIPTION          NUMBER         USi      COST
VEHICLES               Traffic patrol, cars
to supervise the
traffic on the
Khartoum-P.Sudan rd.          40          ISO"   SONU
COMMUNICATION EqUIPMENT VHF radio seta
for ths patrole care           0            Iwo    SO8N
CRANES  (WRECKER)       Hoavy duty (4BT)               1          12000    1200M
Medium (IOT)                   1          6Sam      66W
SAFETY EQUIPMENT       Various it.s                                        Sam
TRAINING               Data collection
Traffic mnag eme nt
Accident invost.
Vehicle inspection
Traffic safety                29            SUB    OuBS
CONTINGENCIES    10                                                            W
GRAND TOTAL                                                                -



- 70 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Develop and Implement a Pavement Management System
Outline Terms of Reference
A. Background
The main highways in the Sudan are deteriorating rapidly as a
result of inadequate maintenance and damage caused by vehicles which are
severely overloaded. As part of a strategy for dealing with this problem,
Government intends to introduce a system which will enable the Roads and
Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) to monitor the performance of the paved
road network and will provide a basis for guiding the allocation of
resources for road maintenance.
For this purpose, Government requires the services of an
engineering consultant with relevant experience to advise RBPC on the form
and operation of an appropriate Pavement Management System and to assist
with the implementation of this system.
This work will follow on from pavement condition surveys which
RBPC has carried out under the Third Highway Project.
B. Obiective
Institute a pavement management system so that RBPC can better
assess, alert itself to potential problems and plan road maintenance,
strengthening and reconstruction needs in a timely fashion.
The basis of the system is expected to be regular, objective
assessment of pavement condition. This would be evaluated with data on
traffic volumes and loading and on current road maintenance activity to
provide a basis for preparing optimal maintenance programs in the future.
C. Services to Be Provided by the Consultant
Monitoring of Pavement Condition
Design and establish procedures for monitoring pavement
condition by the regular measurement of key parameters. It is envisaged
that the parameters will be:
-    pavement deflection;
-    crack intensity;
-    pothole occurrence;
-    rut depth;
-    drainage defects
-    visual rating.



- 71 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
Additional parameters should be recommended if these are
considered desirable.
Assess existing equipment for pavement monitoring and recommend
any additional equipment or spare part which is required. Procure these
requirements if requested to do so.
It is envisaged that pavement condition will be monitored by a
unit to be set up and trained for this purpose in the Planning Division of
RBPC. It is envisaged that once the unit is well established,
responsibility for it would be transferred to the Maintenance Division.
Review the present procedures for the routine recording and
reporting of simple measures of pavement condition by the Section Depots.
It is envisaged that this would cover the following:
-    subjective rating of pavement;
-    occurrence of potholes and cracks;
-    other pavement defects;
-    shoulder and drainage defects.
Propose procedures for data collection and analyzing,
summarizing and reporting pavement condition measurements. Assist RBPC to
implement a system of agreed procedures and to modify these if necessary.
Maintenance Activity
Advise on a system for recording and reporting maintenance work
which is carried out on the paved road network.
Assist RBPC to establish an agreed form of reporting, monitor
the operation of this and advise on any adjustments which are desirable.
Advise outstations (Depots) on reporting routines consistent
with the proposed PMS requirements.
Road Traffic
Advise on procedures for routine checking and classifying
traffic flows on the sealed road network.
Advise on a procedure for monitoring axle loading (use records
from the proposed axle load control system once this is operating).



- 72 -
ANNEX VII
Pagc 4 of 3
Assist RBPC to implement agreed traffic monitoring and reporting
precedures. Initially it may be practical to integrate these activities
with the other duties of the Pavement Monitoring Unit.
Pavement Maintenance and Strengthening Requirements
Advise on the design of suitable data banks for pavement
condition, traffic and maintenance activity, possibly using microcomputers
which RBPC has. Advise on any additional equipment required. Assist with
the setting up and the use of the agreed data filing systems and with the
implementation of any modifications which are necessary.
Advise on practical procedures for determining maintenance
requirement and priorities and for anticipating the need for pavement
upgrading. Design the preferred procedures in detail and assist RBPC to
implement them in drawing up an annual road maintenance program and
outlining future upgrading requirements.
Advise on the recurrent budget which RBPC will require to
operate the Pavement Management System, initially and in the long run.
D. Services to Be Provided by Government
Staff to operate all components of the Pavement Management
System, both during the study phase and for future operations.
Relevant equipment acquired under the Third Highways Project.
Funds for the recurrent budget necessary to operate the Pavement
Management System.



- 73 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
KHARTOUH - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUDAN'S ROAD CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
ACTION PLAN
1.        RBPC to review current legal framework, in particular, the Road
Act, and establish to what extent the road classification system described
in the Road Act is suitable for the future. The target date is August 31,
1989. (This has been done.)
2.        If necessary, RBPC will prepare the draft legislation required
for updating the Road Act in respect of road classification. Target date
is December 31, 1989.
3.        RBPC to draw up a map covering all proposed classified roads
with classification according to a set description for trunk secondary and
tertiary roads. Target date is June 30, 1990.
4.        RBPC to prep&re the framework for the administration of the
various classes of roads described in the proposed Road Act. Target date
is September 30, 1990.
5.        RBPC will present to the Minister a comprehensive proposal for
new road classification system. Target date is December 31, 1990.
6.        Target date for full-fledged implementation of the new
classification system including administrative arrangements will be July 1,
1991.



- 74 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
SUDAN
K1ARTOUH - PORT SUDAN ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
RBPC' S ORGANIZATIONAL FRAMEWORK
ACTION PLAN
1.        Official comments by IDA on RBPC's proposed organizational
framwork to be sent to GOS by March 1, 1989. (This has been done.)
2.        Organizational changes to be finalized and any Governemntal
clearances necessary to their implementation arranged by RBPC by May 1,
1989. (This has been done.)
3.        Organizational changes to be implemented by July 1, 1989.  (This
has been done.)
4.        RBPC to *end to IDA a report commenting on the effectiveness of
the revised organization and recommend further changes, if necessary, by
July 1, 1990.
5.        IDA to comment officially on RBPC's report and make suggestions
for further changes, if appropriate, by September 30, 1990.



MAP SECTION



2r                  24-                 26                  2r                                                          30-  3r ,i          3U                  w
S U D A N                                                                   
KHARTOUM - PORT SUDAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport network
22r                                 1__ _ __IARAB   REPUBL I    OF   EGYPT                                                                                                      2r2
r                                                                Wadi Hoifoa                                           \ 
LIBYA! jt                                                                                  
L I 8NO RYH A
-20         L-                                                                                                                                                                   17
DONGOLA
J                                     Kanma                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toko
8                  W                                             *Ed- --
-             ~~~~At   ± 
CHAD  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tAD DAME*Dee
C Hah t AL                                                                                                                                                             16
------ -                                    (  H    Hos  WAD MEDANI
i4  /   < pK0?0,  --                     Sodir,__ '-ED  UEIM                                                     1ef                           '4.
4FASHER\          KO R D O F A,.N  8 *,"    *, i KNn\
±                                    7                                    2 ;  EL OBEID,             Koti    k i
1 20UmnHoraz                    YALA                                                                                     E  'DAAN ROS<
*  I                            .-**~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        N  .                                                                  BD~~~~~~~nu 
I-                      A                                                    *F                                                       E T H I O       P I A
PREVCiUS BANK PROiECTS:                           \                                                                                                                 309 t#     -    g 
C-i H A Z                                 U AA? 
Srcond HidhwayProjet(Credit882-SUJ                                            A*od_
Construcion to Bituminou s Poved Stanard            ..                        *     .
A     Workshop Construction                   .*'
Third Highway Project (Cr.I 450-SU)                            0.                         J°.F.tK
2 Ferries at Ed Dueim                                  *., 
4.        Existing Roads                                                                                              N           /   KErYA t
Moin Roads Under Construction                                            /                                                        LyIBA     . ARAB BYE        SAUOI ABABIA
*-------  Gravel Roads, Including Roads Under Construction                        4                                                               | OF EGYPT
Secondory Roads, Unsurfoced                                                                                  D   A
Other Roads, Improved                                                               (  
Tracks                                                                                         6. G.M/u                   U  
S    RBPC Workshops                              o        wo        200      300       400            nNEbsoM                   z
A    Other Workshops Plarned                                   -KILOETERS                                                   2         CYAD   -
-2-                                       KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~es- l,O&,,B IC r/                                                     L         a
Rapids or Waterfalls                                                                            -     -  aro                                                     . '\Cu
-4      Molor Doms                            °    Towns and Villoges                                     r                         ,  
z      t     Airports, Airfields                   0    Region and Province Capitals                         a1bawsn,s         f 0,50                                   ETYIOY'A   '
Railroads                             *    National Capital                               °                                 'CNTRABBC   E
iE   --  Pipelines                                  Region Boundaries                                    am,  ,,V  0 o ,  
-  Swamps                              -.       International Boundaries                            7,w=yIc0     s --*    
_24                  2e                    28                    30                    32                        CONGO                              A



