Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2070 SU
                       Development Credit Agreement
             (Khartoum-Port Sudan Road Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                         THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated December 22, 1989
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2070 SU
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1989, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW), out of the financial cooperation funds of the Federal
Republic of Germany, a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount of thirty million
Deutsche Mark (DM 30,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Financing Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "RBPC" means the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
established in 1973 under the Borrower's Public Corporations Act, or any
successor thereto;
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
      (c)   "LSD" means the currency of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-five million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 65,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank authorized by the
Bank of Sudan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Page  3
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1,
2000, and ending September 1, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on September 1, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of,
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph.(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through RBPC with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   establish, not later than July 1, 1990, axle load limits
acceptable to the Association; and
      (b)   take, not later than July 1, 1991, all measures necessary to
enforce such limits, including the implementation of the axle load control
system referred to in Part B.1 of the Project and appropriate arrangements
for the cooperation of RBPC and the traffic police.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause RBPC to establish, not later
than July 1, 1991, and thereafter maintain, the pavement management system
referred to in Part C of the Project.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause RBPC: (a) to prepare and
furnish to the Association, not later than September 30 of each year, a road
maintenance plan acceptable to the Association outlining the proposed
maintenance works for the current fiscal year in relation to the budgetary
allocations and the overall long-term maintenance needs; and
      (b)   to carry out its maintenance works in accordance with such
Page  4
annual plans.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1990,
empower the Board of Directors of RBPC to approve expenditures of up to LSD
250,000 to be incurred by RBPC in accordance with its budgetary provisions.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all
measures necessary to establish a road classification system in accordance
with the action plan agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause RBPC to implement the
organizational changes designed to improve RBPC's functions and structure
in accordance with the action plan agreed upon among the Borrower, RBPC and
the Association.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of RBPC.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                              Other Covenants
Page  5
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause RBPC:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and administrative practices.
      Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause its road network to be
reasonably maintained and promptly repaired in accordance with sound
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the foregoing.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the KfW Grant made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
Association has been notified that all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement of the Kfw Grant, other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
      Section 7.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Page  6
            P.O. Box 2092
            Khartoum
            The Republic of the Sudan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  EIMAR                         22324
                  Khartoum
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
                  By /s/ Hassan Beshir Abdelwahab
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Roads and                 40,000,000        100% of foreign
    bridges re-                                     expenditures
    habilitation
    under Part A.1
    and A.2 of the
    Project
(2)     Road construc-            13,000,000        100%
    tion under
    Part A.3 of
    the Project
Page  7
(3)     Equipment, spare           1,700,000        100% of foreign
    parts and vehicles                              expenditures
(4)     Consultants'               4,500,000        100%
    services
(5)     Unallocated                6,500,000
        TOTAL                     65,700,000
2.  For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods and services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the overall road
network in the Sudan; (ii) to rehabilitate and arrest further deterioration
of the Khartoum-Port Sudan Road; (iii) to improve RBPC's road maintenance
capabilities; and (iv) to establish and enforce an effective axle load
control system.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of the Road Network
1.  Reconstruction and overlay of approximately 560 km of damaged road
sections of the Khartoum-Port Sudan road.
2.  Rehabilitation of damaged bridges of the Khartoum-Port Sudan road.
3.  Construction of the Jebel Aulia Ed Dueim road.
Part B:   Axle Load Control System
1.  Preparation and implementation of an axle load control system, including
provision of training for enforcement personnel.
2.  Construction of two permanent weighbridge stations.
3.  Construction of approximately 20 mobile weighbridge sites.
4.  Acquisition of permanent and mobile weighbridges, patrol
cars, computers, radios, traffic safety aids and rescue equipment.
Part C:   Pavement Management System
    Design and implementation of a pavement management system, including the
acquisition of vehicles, equipment and the provision of training.
Part D:   RBPC
Strengthening of RBPC's road maintenance capability.
                               *   *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1993.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  8
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sudan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic
contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Equipment, spare parts and vehicles, not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 for each contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of pr ice quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.  Equipment, spare parts and vehicles, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause RBPC to employ, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
Page  9
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (3) and (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been made out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Page  10
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement.
