Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
TF052330 
 
DfID Grant Agreement 
 
(Relating to the Second Emergency Public Administration Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of a grant provided by the 
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, acting 
through the Department for International Development) 
 
Dated July 13, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER TF052330 
 
DfID GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 13, 2004, between THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
AFGHANISTAN (the “Recipient”) and THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of a grant (the “DfID 
Grant”) provided by THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT 
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND (the “Donor”) acting through the Department for 
International Development (the “DfID”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated June 30, 2003 (the Development Grant 
Agreement or “DGA”) (IDA Grant Number H055-AF), between the Administrator and the 
Recipient relating to the financing of the Second Emergency Public Administration Project 
(the “Project”), the Administrator has agreed to make available a development grant to the 
Recipient in an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR6,100,000);  
 
(B) 
The Donor has agreed, under a memorandum of understanding with the 
Administrator, dated July 30, 2003 (the “Letter of Agreement”), to make the proceeds of 
the DfID Grant available to the Administrator to cofinance Part B of the Project subject to 
the terms and conditions set out in the DGA and this Agreement;  
 
(C) 
The Donor and the Administrator have agreed, under the Letter of 
Agreement, to assign the responsibility for the administration of the proceeds of the DfID 
Grant to the Administrator; and 
 
(D) 
the Administrator undertook under the Letter of Agreement to implement 
the procedures and conclude the agreements required to implement the Letter of Agreement 
and to achieve the objectives of the DfID Grant. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
Section 1.01. The General Conditions, as amended, referred to and modified in 
Section 1.01 of the DGA (the “General Conditions”) shall apply mutatis
mutandis
to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the DGA, the General Conditions 
referred to in the preceding Section and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and the term "DfID Grant Account" means the DfID 
account maintained by the Administrator in which the amount of the DfID Grant is 
deposited. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The DfID Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions herein set forth or referred to, the DfID Grant in the amount of one million six 
hundred thirty six thousand six hundred pound sterling (£1,636,600).
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the DfID Grant may be withdrawn from the DfID 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the DGA for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of consultant services approved for financing from the proceeds of the 
DfID Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the DGA. 
 
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, consultant services 
to be financed from the proceeds of the DfID Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the DGA. 
 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006 or such later date as shall 
be determined by the Administrator in agreement with the Donor. The Administrator shall 
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the DfID Grant shall be made 
only to the extent that resources adequate to meet such disbursement shall have been 
transferred from the DfID to the Administrator. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of Part B of the Project 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III and IV of, 
and Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4 to, the DGA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose all references 
in said Articles and Schedules to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be deemed to be references  
to the International Development Association as Administrator of the DfID Grant; and 
(b) the "Grant" and "Grant Account" shall be deemed to be references to the DfID Grant 
and the DfID Grant Account. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature thereof by the 
parties hereto and shall continue in effect until termination of the Letter of Agreement or 
until the DfID Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled their obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first. 
 
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Letter of Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice 
from one party to the other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Recipient to that effect, the DfID shall, ipso
facto
,
from the date 
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator 
under this Agreement as if the DfID had been an original party to this Agreement, without 
any further action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Representatives 
 
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan shall 
be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
Kabul 
Page  6
-
4
-
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
For the Administrator: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
 
Telex: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
  MCI 248423 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  MCI 64145 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
/s/ Ashraf Ghani 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
as Administrator of the Grant provided 
by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland acting through the Department for International Development 
 
/s/ Mariam Sherman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
