Project Name                  Afghanistan - Second Emergency Public
Administration Project
Region                        South Asia Region
Sector                        BZ: General Public Administration
Project                       P082610
Implementing Agencies         Afghanistan Assistance Coord Authority (AACA)
Administrative Reform and Civil Service
Commission (ARCSC)
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Kabul, Afghanistan
Environment Category          C
Date PID Prepared             May 13, 2003
Projected Appraisal Date      May 20, 2003
Projected Board Date          June 24, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Afghanistan is now at a critical point in its history, where
significant gains made in the past year and a half need to be
consolidated, and the tangible benefits of development felt more widely
by the Afghan people. Despite significant steps forward, the situation
remains fragile with continued security problems encountered almost
daily. Greater and more rapid progress in reconstruction will require
continued, high-level attention and assistance from the international
community. Afghanistan's partners also need to squiarely face the need
to assist in bringing about greater stability and security.
Priority has been placed on enhancing the cacacity within government to
manage its reconstruction and development program. These efforts
include refocusing the role of government on coordination, policy
setting and regulation (rather than implementation), relying on
international contractors when necessary to enhance capacity on an
emergency capacity in key fiduciary areas, and using NGOs and the
private sector to implement development and reconstruction activities
whenever appropriate and feasible. The authorities have also
established a mechanism to finance feasibility studies for projects
within the development budget that are not yet sufficiently prepared to
implement.  All of these efforts should result in an escalation of
absorptive capacity, consistent with the experience in othor post-
conflict countries which has shown that the capacity to absorb
development assistance increases dramatically after about three years.



In addition to continuing and solidifying capacity building efforts
already underway, concentrated focus is now being placed on enhancing
own revenue through sequenced customs reforms and in escalating efforts
to resolve on-going payments problems associated with the lack of
adequate banking capacity. The Transitional Islamic State of
Afghanistan (TISA) has a uniquc opportunity to lay thc ground work for
a brighter future, by harnessing the support of the population which is
looking for security, honest administration, and a realistic hope for a
better future for their children. By garnering public support for
sound institutions, and equitable and transparent governance, TISA has
both the opportunity and the responsibility to move forward on public
administration reforms.
First Emergency Public Administration Project. In April 2002, IDA
approved its first post-conflict grant to Afghanistan for a $10 million
Emergency Public Administration Project (EPAP). EPAP's objective was
to put in place, on an emergency basis, capacity in key public
administration areas to facilitate better use of public resources,
including donor funds, for urgent reconstruction and development
efforts. Specifically, the grant finances international firms to work
with government officials to carry out procurement, financial
management, and audit functions. The project focused on a narrow set
of priority issues, building on lessons from other post-conflict
countries where procurement and fiduciary weaknesses delayed
reconstruction programs and put in jeopardy the continued high-level of
donor support that was needed. The three main contractors under this
project were mobilized during the summer/autumn of 2002 under contracts
that are about two years in duration. As of April 17, $3.4 out of
$10.0 million has disbursed-ahead of original disbursement projections-
and the remaining balances are largely committed.    Overall,
implementation has been satisfactory.
Broader Public Administration Issues. The Afghan authorities confront
a far-reaching, complex, and urgent policy agenda as nation building
and reconstruction proceeds. While EPAP focused on a very narrow range
of primarily fiduciary issues-in line with the immediate focus of the
Afghanistan Interim Administration (the predecessor to TISA) to focus
foremost on enhancing transparency and accountability-over the past
year, the authorities have gained a better understanding of key
constraints and priorities for further actions on the broader public
administration and civil service reform agenda.
Background. After years of war and centralized state control the civil
service is in a state of crisis. In SY1381 (March 21, 2002 - March
20, 2003) there were an estimated 250,000 public sector employees
although the total could be considerably higher than this and little is
known about their status, competence or efficiency. Management and
administrative systems and skills are lacking, and Government
infrastructure has been severely damaged by war and neglect. Until
recently, a major difficulty in moving forward on the public
administration reform agenda has been the lack of a clear focal point
on the government side for developing and taking forward policy
options.
After a period of some uncertainty, leadership in administrative reform
has now been assigned to the Administrative Reform and Civil Service
Commission (ARCSC). The Commission was established by decree on May
- 2 -



2002, with a relatively modest set of functions. However, a further
decree is being submitted to cabinet that will considerably strengthen
its role and extend its responsibilities.
Now, the ARCSC is addressing three strategic problems:
* The capacity of the newly established Administrative Reform and Civil
Service Commission is low, and yet it needs to quickly assume
responsibility in three key areas: (i) appointments and appeals; (ii)
civil service management; and (iii) administrative reform.
* There is an urgent need to initiate a sensible, step-wise
administrative reform program that will allow key departments to move
forward with restructuring plans, and which will allow selective pay
increases to key staff. Developing and implementing such a program is
part of the development budget but is not yet funded.
* There are additional significant funding gaps in key elements of the
Public Administration Reform program as outlined in the SY1382 (2003-
04) and SY1383 (2004-05) indicative development budget.
A key objective of the World Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)
to Afghanistan is to support the continued development of a well-
functioning state that is accountable to its citizenry and able to
ensure that delivery of services in an equitable, efficient and
effective manner. This project supports this key objective and one
falls within one of the four TSS focus areas: governance and public
administration.
Within the governance and public administration reform agenda, the
Bank's strategy has been to support pragmatic opportunities for action
in the short term, initiating a set of immediate reforms which will be
supportive of longer term improvements-but without seeking to over-
prescribe at a time of great uncertainty. This has entailed: (i)
ensuring that emergency capacity is in place-especially in key
fiduciary areas-while launching more medium term capacity building
effort; (ii) undertaking extensive diagnostic work coupled with direct,
hands-on TA and policy advice, to identify and address key constraints;
(iii) identifying short term goals fully-owned by government and agreed
with all major donors; and (iv) providing gap financing when needed.
The short-term goals that address pressing issues include passing a
decree that would allow increased wage payments in selected
restructured ministerial departments, regulating top-ups being paid to
civil servants by NGOs and donors, improving payroll execution, and
enhancing budget execution outside of Kabul. While medium and longer-
term issues are clearly important (e.g., addressing deficiencies in
skill-set and geographic balance or undertaking comprehensive wage
reform), these measures will take time to implement and may be
politically or fiscally more difficult. The World Bank's strategy
recognizes that progress can be made through quick-wins, and that this
could garner support for the more politically difficult medium-term
measures. Key to the World Bank strategy is to ensure that short-term
policy advice and recommendations "do-no-harm" in terms of locking in
long term obligations that may not be consistent with the future vision
of the public sector.
-3-



2. Objective
The objective of the Project is to assist the authorities enhance the
accountability and transparency which it manages public resources and
implements its Natiornal Development Budget.  Specifically, this
includes continued emphasis on the objective of the first EPAP-putting
in place, on an emergency basis, capacity in key public administration
areas to facilitate better use of public resources, including donor
funds, for urgent reconstruction and developmernt efforts. A further
emphasis of this project is to begin to lay the foundation for more
broad-based civil service reform directed at increasing the efficiency
with which basic services are delivered to the population.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Emerging from decades of crisis, the Afghan administration does not
have a track record of transparent and efficient implementation of a
development budget. This severely limits the scope for successful
implementation of a large recovery program. Furthermoro, concerns
about accountability could jeopardize the magnitude of donor support
that has been pledged and will be required. Continuing to assist TISA
in building a nucleus of implementation capacity (in procurement and
financial management) and showing credible results on the ground will
help the TISA build a track record of performance, while also providing
some assurance to donors of appropriate fiduciary acccuntability for
budget resources. The additional activities supported by the Project
begin to lay foundations for reform in selected key areas of the public
administration. Although public sector enhancement is a medium-term
objective, it is crucial to set the tone in the short-term with
effective support for initial steps in this process.
The Bank is well placed, drawing on lessons learned in other post-
conflict settings and, more generally, in supporting capacity building
and institutional strengthening, to provide assistance to the
authorities in these areas.
4. Description
The Grant will finance the continued employment by TISA of qualified
firms to assist the authorities carry out, on an interim basis,
government procurement and selected financial management functions;
develop the administration's capacity in these areas; and assess
existing systems and procedures to recommend suitable policy reforms.
Services will also be provided to assist the ARCSC to develop its
capacity to undertake the development and oversight of merit based
appointments of sen-or civil servants and appeals, civil service
management, and overa'l management and implementation of public
administration reform program. Further services will be provided to
ministries for approved restructuring and for studies and institution
building within selected entit-es.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
Government                  C
IDA                        8.4
DflD                       2.5
-4-



Total Project Cost        10.9
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by AACA, ARCSC, and MOF.
7. Sustainability
The project puts in place emergency capacity and seeks to begin to
build domestic capacity in key procurement and fiduciary areas. This
capacity should facilitate the implementation of the broader
reconstruction program. This emergency capacity should not be
sustained, but rather transferred to local authorities as soon as
feasible. By also focusing attenticn on laying the foundation on which
to build a sound public administration, the project should provide the
first step in a much longer term program of public sector
strengthening.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Past experience in post-conflict settings shows that procurement and
fiduciary capacities are generally weak, and that this is often a
bottleneck to the reconstruction program.
Past experience also shows that when capacity is weak and requirements
are vast, as in post-conflict situations, it is often better to
consolidate procurement capacity into a single entity. This
facilitates a more rapid implementation of the reconstruction program,
and it also allows for faster domestic capacity building. However,
lessons also emerge that there should be a clear sunset clause for such
an entity, in order to ensure that the capacity that is developed is
transferred to appropriate ministries over a reasonable period of time.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) No
10. Environmental Aspects (including any public consultation). There
are no environment issues.
11. Contact Point:             The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Team Leader
Linda Van Gelder
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5761
Fax No. (202) 522 0356
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not be included in the final project.
- 5 -



