Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H055-AF 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Second Emergency Public Administration Project) 
 
between 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 30, 2003 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H055-AF 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2003, between TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC 
STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Recipient intends to contract from the Government of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, acting through its Department for 
International Development (DfID), a grant in an amount of one million six hundred thirty 
six thousand six hundred pound sterling (
£1,636,600) (the DfID Grant) to assist in 
financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and the Association, as administrator of the DfID 
Grant (the DfID Grant Agreement); 
 
(C) 
DfID intends to appoint the Association to administer the DfID Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of an administration agreement to be entered into between 
DfID and the Association; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01 The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
  
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“AACA” means the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority, an 
authority established pursuant to a Decree of the Recipient, dated March 30, 2002, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“ARCSC” means the Afghanistan Reform and Civil Service 
Commission, a commission established pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 257 of 
May 2002; 
 
(c) 
“DfID Account” means the trust fund account opened by the Association 
in its books in which the DfID Grant shall be deposited; 
 
(d) 
“Donor” means any country, multilateral agency, public or private 
financial institution, development finance institution or international organization, which 
is proposing to make, or has made, financing available to the Recipient on a grant basis or 
on concessional terms to support a development program of the Recipient; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, commencing on  
March 21 of each calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year; 
 
(g) 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient; 
 
(h) 
“PAREM” means the Recipient’s Public Administration Reform and 
Economic Management program which is part of the Recipient’s development budget for 
Fiscal Year 2004; and 
 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to six million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR6,100,000). 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant and the amount of the DfID Grant may 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and the DfID Grant Account, respectively, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and the DfID Grant. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Association and DfID shall otherwise agree, the allocation 
and the procedures for withdrawals of the DfID Grant shall be governed, mutatis
mutandis
,
by the provisions of the General Conditions. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States dollars or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on 
 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
 
ARTICLE III 
Page  5
-
4
-
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public administration reform practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.  
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  6
-
5
-
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts, and the 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,  the Recipient shall 
Page  7
-
6
-
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association,
 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the DfID Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /s/ Abdul Salam Rahimi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alastair McKechnie 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
Amount of DfID   
        
 
  
Grant Allocated 
Grant (Expressed                % of 
           
   
 
(Expressed in  
(in Pound Sterling  
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants’ 
4,200,000 
0 
 
100% 
services and 
training under  
Parts A and C of  
the Project, and audits 
 
(2) Consultants’ 
1,420,000 
1,228,450 
 
100% 
services and 
training under  
Parts B(i), B(iii) and  
B(iv)of the Project 
 
 
 
(3) Consultants’ 
480,000 
408,150 
 
100% 
services and 
training under  
Part B(ii) of the Project 
 
________  
________ 
 
TOTAL
 
6,100,000
 
1,636,600
 
======= ======= 
 
2.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) under Category (3) unless the Recipient has taken all action required 
on its part, including regulatory action, to establish a framework, satisfactory in substance 
to the Association, that shall enable the Recipient to reform priority departments within 
the Recipient’s ministries. 
Page  11
-
10
-
3. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statement
s
of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) consultants’ services 
provided by firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each;  
(b) consultants’ services provided by individuals under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; (c) training; and (d) audit costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
4. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
or the DfID Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association for deposit into the Grant Account or the DfID Account, as the case may be, 
an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) continue to assist the Recipient in putting 
in place, on an emergency basis, capacity in key public administration areas to facilitate 
better use of public resources, including Donor funds, for immediate reconstruction and 
development; and (b) commence the process of laying the foundation for civil service 
reform with a view to increasing the efficiency of the delivery of basic services to the 
population.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Supplemental Support to AACA and MOF
Supplemental support to AACA and MOF, thr
ough the provision of consultants’ 
services, with a view to continuing the process of putting in place, on an emergency 
basis: (i) procurement capacity to facilitate rapid, transparent utilization of Donor 
resources, finance reconstruction and development activities and build the Recipient’s 
procurement capacity; and (ii) financial management capacity to ensure timely 
disbursements and transparent accounting of the Recipient’s expenditures, and build the 
Recipient’s financial management capacity. 
 
Part B:
Civil Service and Administration Reform
Support to ARCSC, through the provision of consultants’ services, with a view 
to: (i) developing ARCSC’s capacity in civil service and public administration reform 
management, (ii) assisting ministries of the Recipient in implementing their own interim 
reform and restructuring plans; (iii) assisting ARCSC in carrying out activities 
contemplated under PAREM that have not received Donor support; and (iv) carrying out 
reviews, on a semi-annual basis, of activities implemented under Parts B(i), B(ii) and  
B(iii) of the Project to assess the progress achieved and ensure effective work planning 
and programming. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Part C:
Studies and Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out miscellaneous studies and institutional strengthening activities, 
including training activities, consistent with the Recipient’s National Development 
Framework. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2005. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines); and 
(b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- 
and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services under Part B(i) of the Project, and other services estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more per contract up to the equivalent of $5,400,000 in the 
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to the equivalent of $4,600,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  15
-
14
-
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the implementation of Part A(i) of the 
Project in AACA, Parts A (ii) and C of the Project in MOF and Part B of the Project in 
ARCSC. The Recipient shall cause MOF to coordinate the implementation of the Project 
and prepare the reports referred to under paragraphs B(b)(i) and B(b)(ii) of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing October 1, 2003, a report 
on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and (ii) on or about July 31, 2004, a report, to constitute the basis 
upon which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph and 
consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, not later than September 30, 2004, or such 
later date as the Association shall reasonably request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
Page  19
-
18
-
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators for the Project include the following, subject to 
modification by agreement of the Recipient and the Association: 
 
1. 
Goods, services and works procured by the Recipient have been delivered in 
accordance with the respective procurement plans. 
 
2. 
An action plan for the strengthening of the Recipient’s procurement capacity has 
been prepared, approved by the Association and implemented by September 30, 2005.  
 
3. 
Budgetary expenditures of the Recipient, including expenditures under projects 
financed by the Association, are accurately recorded and reported on a timely basis. 
 
4. 
An action plan for the strengthening of the financial management capacity of the 
Recipient has been prepared, vetted by the Association and implemented by 
 
September 30, 2005. 
 
5. 
Procedures for merit-based recruitment of senior civil servants have been adopted 
by the Recipient and put into effect by June 30, 2004. 
 
6. 
Recruitment and promotion of senior civil servants has taken place by  
June 30, 2005, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association.  
 
7. 
Interim restructuring of at least fifteen (15) departments within ministries of the 
Recipient has taken place by September 30, 2005, in accordance with the framework 
referred to under paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
the term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
the term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
the term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02(a)(ii) and 6.02(c)(i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue to 
read “credit”.  
 
(d) 
the term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(e) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02. Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable 
 
(a) 
the Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
Page  23
-
22
-
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03. Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02(a)(ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02(c)(i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05. Termination of Development Grant Agreement 
 
The obligations of the Borrower under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.”
 
