                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                        ReportNo: T 7593 AF




                                     TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                  FORA PROPOSEDGRANT

                                     OF SDR 6.1 MILLION

                             (US8.4 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO

           THE TR4NSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OFAFGHANISTAN

                                               FORA

        SECONDEMERGENCY PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT




                                          May27,2003




This document hasa restricted distributionand maybe usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
                                effective as of April 20,2002

                              Currency Unit =          Afghani
                              US$1              =      "47.9

                            GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                               March 21-March    20 (SY1382)
 Afghanistan uses a Solar Year (SY) calendar which traditionally beginson or about March21


                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AACA          Afghanistan Assistance CoordinationAuthority
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AGO           Auditor General Office
ARCSC         Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission
ARTF          Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
csc           Civil Service Commission
CSA           Civil Services Administration
DFID          Department for InternationalDevelopment (U.K.)
EO1           Expression of Interest
EPAP          Emergency Public Administration Project
IDA           InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFC           InternationalFinance Corporation
IF1           InternationalFinancial Institution
IMF           InternationalMonetary Fund
MOF           MinistryofFinance
NGO           Non-GovernmentalOrganization
PAREM         Public Administration Reformand Economic Management
PRR           Priority Reformand Restructuring
SEPAP         SecondEmergency Public Administration Project
TISA          Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan
TSS           Transitional Support Strategy
UN            UnitedNations
UNDP          UnitedNations Development Program




                            Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu
                          Country Director:      Alastair McKechnie
                           Sector Manager:       Kapil Kapoor

                                                                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                     TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OFAFGHANISTAN

                 SECOND EMERGENCYPUBLICADMINISTRATION PROJECT

                                                  TECHNICAL ANNEX


                                                       Table of Contents


       I COUNTRYANDSECTORBACKGROUD
        .                                                                ..........................................................................     1
         A. BRIEFCOUNTRYUPDATE             ......................................................................................................       1
         B. FIRSTEMERGENCY      PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION                         PROJECT         .......................................................   2
         C. BROADER PUSLIC ADMINISTRATIONISSUES                           ......................................................................... 4
       I1 STRATEGICCONTEXT
        .                                 .......................................................................................................       8
         A. WORLDBANKCOUNTRY STRATEGY.....................................................................................                              8
         B. SECTOR STRATEGY ................................................................................................................            8
       I11 THE PROPOSEDPROJECT
         .                                         ...............................................................................................      9
         A.OBJECTIVES............................................................................................................................ 9
         B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION...........................................................................................................               9
           Component 1: Supplemental Supportfor EPAP Contracts ..................................................                                      10
           Component 2: Civil Sewice and Administrative Reform ......................................................                                  11
                                                                                                                                                       11
         D.IMPLEMENTATION
         C.Component 3: Studies and Institutional Strengthening.........................................................
                              ARRANGEMENTS.....................................................................................                        12
            JUSTIFICATION .....................................................................................................................        13
       ANNEX I:PAREMDEVELOPMENTBUDGET                                          ...................................................................     14
         A.GOVERNMENT   BUDGET         DOCUMENT**                ................................................................................      14
         B.PROJECT'SFIT INTHEDEVELOPMENT                       BUDGET...................................................................               19
       ANNEX 11:PROJECTDETAILS                    ..............................................................................................       20
       ANNEX 111:PROJECTCOST SUMMARY                                 ............................................................................      28
       ANNEX IV: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS                                              .............................................................    29
       ANNEX V: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT & DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS 33                                                                                   ....
       ANNEX VI: MONITORING               .....................................................................................................        36




This document has a restricteddistribution and may beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                    .        .


                     I.COUNTRYANDSECTORBACKGROUD


A. BriefCountryUpdate

1.      Afghanistan is now at a critical point in its history, where significant gains made
in the past year and a half need to be consolidated, and the tangible benefits of
development felt more widely by the Afghan people. Despite significant steps forward,
the situation remains fragile with continued serious security problems encountered almost
daily. Government security forces remain inadequate to widen state control and rein in
disaffected groups around the country. Greater andmore rapid progress inreconstruction
will require continued, high-level attention and assistance from the international
community. Afghanistan's partners also need to squarely face the need to assist in
bringingabout greater stability andsecurity.

2.      On the economic front, much has been achieved in the past year and a half. A
successful currency reform has resulted in a single, stable currency. Fiscal policy has
remained conservative with a no overdraft policy. An ordinary (recurrent) budget was
passed for SY1381 (March 21, 2002-March         20, 2003), and the authorities adhered to
the no overdraft policy during implementation. A national development framework,
which identified development priorities and policy directions, was formulated. And, for
SY1382, significant gains have been made to solidify the budget as the primary policy
tool with boththe ordinary and development budgets inplace byMarch2003.

3.      Priority has been placed on enhancing the capacity within government to manage
its reconstruction and development program. These efforts include refocusing the role o f
government on coordination, policy setting and regulation (rather than implementation),
relying on international contractors when necessary to enhance capacity on an emergency
basis in key fiduciary areas, and using NGOs and the private sector to implement
development and reconstruction activities whenever appropriate and feasible.            The
authorities have also established a mechanism to finance feasibility studies for projects
within the development budget that are not yet sufficiently prepared to implement. All o f
these efforts should result in an expansion o f absorptive capacity, consistent with the
experience in other post-conflict countries which has shown that the capacity to absorb
development assistance increases dramatically after about three years.

4.      In addition to continuing and solidifying capacity building efforts already
underway, concentrated focus is now being placed on enhancing own revenue through
sequenced customs reforms and on escalating efforts to resolve on-going payments
problems associated with the lack o f adequate banking capacity.

5.      In summary, the Transitional Islamic State o f Afghanistan (TISA) has a unique
opportunity to lay the ground work for a brighter future, by harnessing the support o f the
population which is looking for security, honest administration, and a realistic hope for a
better future for their children. By garnering public support for sound institutions, and
equitable and transparent governance, TISA has both the opportunity and the
responsibility to move forward on public administration reforms.

B. FirstEmergencyPublicAdministrationProject

6.      InApril 2002, IDA approved its first post-conflict grant to Afghanistan for a $10
million Emergency Public Administration Project (EPAP). EPAP's objective was to put
inplace, on an emergency basis, capacity inkey public administration areas to facilitate
better use o f public resources, including donor funds, for urgent reconstruction and
development efforts. Specifically, the grant finances international firms to work with
government officials to carry out procurement, financial management, and audit
functions.   The project focused on a very narrow set o f priority issues, building on
lessons from other post-conflict countries where procurement and fiduciary weaknesses
delayed reconstruction programs and put injeopardy the continued high-level o f donor
support that was needed. The three main contractors under this project were mobilized
during the summer/autumn o f 2002 under contracts that are about two years induration.
As of April 17, $3.4 out o f $10.0 million has disbursed-ahead   o f original disbursement
projections-and   the remainingbalances are largelycommitted. Overall, implementation
has been generally satisfactory.

7.      FinancialManagement. Ina staged approach, good progress has been made in
developing the foundations for a financial management system within the Ministry o f
Finance (MOF) treasury.       In the first stage, with the assistance of the Financial
Management Agent, a system for computerized check issuance went on-line in Kabul in
October 2002. This enabled real-time reporting on all expenditures that are processed in
Kabul. By the start o f SY1382, this accounting system has been augmented to allow for
control o fbudget execution against budget allotments-again    for all expenditures that are
processed in Kabul. Recording o f revenues is now also possible. Work i s progressing
towards the integration o f a standard payroll module which will be piloted in about two
ministries.    Connectivity testing has started with an aim to introduce the accounting
system in one remote location. A Grant Management Unit has been established in the
Ministry o f Finance that should assist the government in tracking donor financing and
provide donors with adequate financial management reports.         Training and capacity
buildingefforts are well underway to enhance the likely sustainability o f achievements to
date. MOF staff currently handle all data entry and check runs, and M O F staff and local
consultants are being trained to handle trouble-shooting and higher-end functions.
Within the next six months, the authorities will needto develop a clear strategy on how to
put inplace support that may be needed when the existing emergency support comes to
conclusion.

8.      While outside o f the scope o f EPAP, there remains deficiencies in the overall
expenditure system including cash management and the payments system.               Timely
budget execution remains a problem, especially in the provinces. A "nominal
headcount was completed for the sixth month o f SY1381 on the basis o f salary claims
submitted by ministries and departments, but there remain serious challenges in
maintaining an up to date list o f civil servants-a  necessary first step towards overall
control o fthe payroll. And, efforts at enhanced expenditure tracking will be needed.

9.      Procurement.      The Procurement Agent works to support the Afghanistan
Assistance Coordination Authority (AACA) procurement unit. The original concept was



                                             2

to create a focal point for building procurement capacity while ensuring that emergency
short-term support was in place.          The Procurement Agent was expected to assist in
"complex"       procurement-drawing on the input from line ministries for technical
specifications.      For "simple" procurement activities, the Procurement Agent would
provide support, guidance and oversight to the line ministries carrying out these
activities. The definition o f "simple" and "complex" was expected to shift over time as
line ministry capacity increased. However, implementation in the early stage o f the
contract was hindered because o f initial cuts by the authorities to the scope o f the
assignment during contract negotiations. The capacity building component was largely
eliminated, and initial activities focused almost exclusively on carrying out procurement
h c t i o n s directly. Earlier this year, a contract amendment restored the capacity building
element, though identification o f appropriate counterparts especially in line ministries
remains problematic. A legislative review has beeninitiated, a training program i s being
developed, and plans are being discussed to more widely disseminate information to the
local business community on procurement practices and what they need to do to
effectively bid for contracts.

10.        By end-April, 2003, a procurement agent has assisted in the placement o f 80
contracts valued at just under $50 million. Contracts valued at an additional $160 million
are inhand. While these figures remain relatively small, this reflects the fact that, to date,
not very much donor assistance for reconstruction and development activities has flowed
through the development budget, but rather has been implemented directly through UN
organizations, NGOs, or bilateral donors. However, even with the relatively low volume
and with only nine-months of the two year contract concluded, the entire cost o f the
Procurement Agent represents only 2.5 percent o f the value o f contacts already placed
and inhand. By contract end, this figure is likely to fall around one percent.

11.       Key implementationconstraints relate to recruitment o f core counterpart staff and
identification o f counterparts in line ministries; awareness o f the role o f the procurement
agent within line ministries; and logistics.           During EPAP supervision, efforts are
underway to assist the authorities to more clearly delineate roles and responsibilities o f
the A A C A procurement unit, line ministries, and other partners. On several occasions,
the authorities have not been receptive to the services o f the Procurement Agent being
utilized for projects other than those h d e d by IDA and ARTF, although this was
envisioned inthe project design. To date, this has been satisfactorily resolved on a case-
by-case basis when it emerged. However, a holistic procurement review which is now
on-going should help identify why this occurs and put in place corrective measures to
address the underlying concerns. Within the next six months, the authorities will need to
develop a clear strategy on how to put in place support that may be needed when the
existing emergency support comes to conclusion.

12.       Audit. The independence o f the Auditor General has been confirmed by
Presidential decree. A steering group within the Auditor General's Office has been
established to guide project implementation.           In addition to computer and language
training, technical courses have also started in which over 100 staff have participated.
Pilot audits have been identified and include donor supported projects (IDA projects and
an EU project) and a govemment ministry (Ministry o f Foreign Affairs), a state-owned


                                                  3

enterprise (Ariana) and a system (computerizationo f treasury functions at the Ministry o f
Finance). There i s still a need to more fully assess the overall audit framework. Within
the next six months, the authorities will need to develop a clear strategy on how to put in
place support that may be needed when the existing emergency support comes to
conclusion.

13.     Risks. Inthe EPAP documentation, a number o f risks were identified. Several
are worth noting. First, it was recognizedthat there is a need to extend the functioning o f
the core public administration functions outside o f Kabul. This has proven difficult, and
attainment o f full functionality outside o f Kabul will be gradual. Several efforts, though,
are underway to address this issue: (i) to enhance communications connectivity are
                                         plans
progressing; (ii)   local consultants are being placed in each province to assist the
Moustufiat (MOF representative) improve information flows and basic reporting; (iii)
analytical work is underway to better understand both the formal and informal nature o f
provincial-central relations; and (iv) systems are intrinsically designed for roll out when
logistics and security so permit. Second, it was noted that if an effective payment system
was not in place, this would        slow disbursement o f resources.      Indeed, technical
assistance provided to date on the payments issue has not satisfactorily addressed this
concern, and payments problems remain acute. The IMF and DFID initially provided
technical assistance to D a Afghanistan Bank (Central Bank), USAID now has in place a
program o f extensive technical assistance, ADB has programmed additional support to
developing the payments system, and the World Bank is preparing a financial sector
operation with a strong focus on kick-starting retail banking activities. Consequently, it
was determined that there was no value added in including yet more assistance in this
area under the proposedProject.

C. BroaderPublicAdministrationIssues

14.     The Afghan authorities confront a far-reaching, complex, and urgent policy
agenda as nation building and reconstruction proceeds. While EPAP focused on a very
narrow range o f primarily fiduciary issues-in      line with the immediate focus o f the
Afghanistan Interim Administration (the predecessor to TISA) to focus foremost on
enhancing transparency and accountability-over the past year, the authorities have
gained a better understanding o f key constraints and priorities for fiu-theractions on the
broader public administration and civil service reform agenda. This section provides
some broader sectoral background.

15.     Background. After years o f war and centralized state control the civil service is
ina state ofcrisis. InSY1381 there were an estimated 250,000 public sector employees,
although the total could be considerably higher than this and little is known about their
status, competence or efficiency. Management and administrative systems and skills are
lacking, and Government infrastructure has been severely damaged by war and neglect.
Untilrecently, a major difficulty inmoving forward on the public administration reform
agenda has been the lack o f a clear focal point on the government side for developing and
takingforwardpolicy options.




                                               4

 16.    The situation at the beginning o f SY1382 can be characterized by: pervasive
patronage; inappropriate pay arrangements, with widespread and counter-productive
salary top-ups; a chronic lack o f professional capacity; probable over-hiring; fragmented
and duplicated government structures; poor policy analysis and weak implementation. A
concerted and focused program for renewal and transformation o f public administration
i s urgently neededto remedythese shortcomings.

 17.    After a period of some uncertainty, leadership in administrative reform has now
been assigned to the Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission (ARCSC).
The Commission was established by decree inMay 2002, with a relatively modest set o f
functions.    However, a further decree i s being submitted to the cabinet that will
considerably strengthen its role and extend its responsibilities.

18.     Although the ARCSC was created in response to the requirements o f the Bonn
Agreement, there i s a substantial historical basis for centralized responsibility for civil
service management and oversight.

19.     The 1970 Law on the Status and Condition o f Government Employees (Article 6)
established two bodies with responsibility for public administration: the Civil Service
Commission (CSC) and the Civil Services Administration (CSA).           This is a relatively
orthodox arrangement in which an arms-length commission acts as a check on the
executive in its hiring practices, while a body within the executive is responsible for
administrative reform. This Act was amended in a 1977 Decree (1433) that seemingly
merged both functions in the ''Central Administration o f Employees and Administrative
Reforms", reporting to the Prime Minister and thus effectively ending the arms-length
oversight.

20.     During the ensuing 10 years o f Soviet occupation, the ''Central Administration"
was abolished, while the Office o f Administrative Affairs within the Presidency grew in
authority, with a responsibility to ensure that the line ministries under the Prime Minister
did in fact implement "approved" policy. This undoubtedly allowed extensive political
control over senior appointments. The Soviet period also saw an increasing role for the
Ministry o f Labor and Social Affairs, with its responsibility for maintaining full
employment.

21.     After the end of the Soviet occupation, the UN, in a report on public
administration, suggested re-establishing the Civil Service Administration (1991).
Seemingly, it was also the intention of Government at the time to merge the
Administration Section of the Ministry of Finance with the re-established CSA-again
the CSA was to report to the Prime Minister. However, nothing was implemented and,
effectively, the CSA was dissolved again upon the arrival o f the Taliban in 1996.

22.     The proposed decree expanding the role of the ARCSC returns to the pre-Soviet
arrangement.    Now, the ARCSC must address three strategic problems.             First, the
capacity o f the newly established Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission
i s low, and yet it needs to quickly assume responsibility in three key areas: (i)
appointments and appeals; (ii) service management; and (iii)
                                civil                                 administrative reform.



                                             5

Second, there is an urgent need to initiate a sensible, step-wise administrative reform
program that will allow key departments to move forward with restructuring plans, and
which will allow selective pay increases to key staff. Developing and implementing such
a program is part o f the development budget but i s not yet funded.      Third, there are
additional significant funding gaps inkey elements o f the Public Administration Reform
program as outlined inthe SY1382 and SY1383 indicative development budget.
23.      Priority Reforms.        The Public Administration Reform and Economic
Management (PAREM) program within the National Development Budget aims to create
an effective central Government that re-establishes national unity on the basis o f strong
institutions. This involves building broad-based and equitable community level
participation and effective management at the local level, installing strong systems o f
financial and information management, and using the budget as an instrument o f policy.
The SY1382 PAREM Development Budget i s presented in Annex I.Within the Public
Administration Reform agenda, urgent action i s needed to manage interim reforms,
regulate salary top-ups, and create a nominal roll o f civil servants. These issues are
described ingreater detailbelow. Inaddition, on the economic management side, priority
actions are needed ina variety o f areas including budget execution, cash management and
enhancement o f own revenue mobilization.

24.     Managing interim reforms.      Some ministries are concerned about their ability to
deliver services and frustrated by the lack o f a short-term public administration reform
program. They have signaled their determination to seek hrther donor top-ups and extra-
budgetary support, and to restructure outside o f any overall reform program, unless the
government provides a clear framework for civil service reform that will allow them to
restructure andto improve conditions for their staff inthe very short term.

25.      To resolve this issue, a decree has been prepared that would allow a program o f
interim reforms to be implemented within key Kabul ministries. This would allow pro-
active departments to formalize the chaotic hiring o f consultants and contract staff, and
would enable them to place staff on more appropriate fixed term, but better remunerated,
contracts. Staff whose skills are no longer necessary would be relocated to other units
within the ministry, or to other government departments. Such reforms are essential for
competent staff to bepaid andretained, and for managers to be givengreater autonomy in
managing their departments. Assisting the authorities to implement such a program is
one key area that the proposedProject would support.

26.     Regulating salary top-ups.     Salary top-ups are not intended to cover any
specific costs. They are intended to persuade staff with scarce skills to remain in tough
jobs, on the assumption that there really is an employment alternative for them. Donors
paying salary top-ups and other miscellaneous allowances to government staff
undoubtedly achieve service delivery improvements in 'their' project, but this i s at the
expense o fthe sector more generally. Uncoordinatedtop-ups contribute to wage inflation
within the sector, and generally entail the movement o f skilled staff within the country
rather than bringing in new skilled persons from overseas. Most damagingly, however,
top-ups and other incentives undermine management within the sectors.          Staff feel,
rightly more often than not, that there is little advantage in responding to managerial



                                             6

requests or instructions from within the government-and               every reason to respond to the
real or imagined interests o f their sponsoring donor. For operational efficiency, there
must be just one employer, either government or donor/NGO.                            Of course, non-
government employees can provide public services ingovernment facilities.

27.        Service delivery would be significantly improved by some regulation o f these
incentives. In practice, there i s little prospect for directly regulating in an effective
manner the amounts that NGOs and donors can pay. Development and donor history is
littered with many failed attempts to agree andenforce such caps. What canbe done is to
require that government employees who receive top-ups beyond a specified amount
resign from government service. It i s understood that a decree, jointly agreed by the
Civil Service Commission and the Ministry o f Finance, has been prepared and could be
passed inthe near future.

28.        Creating a Nominal Roll. There i s still no comprehensive database o f civilian
government employees (a "nominal roll") that can be regularly updated, though a list
based upon salary claims made to the center was completed for a single month in
SY1381. Such a nominal roll is the only way to guard against undisciplined hiring, and
some evidence is emerging o f a creeping increase, and may m o r s o f uncontrolled
hiring. The next phase o f DFID supported work will be to develop a nominal roll that
can be regularly updated, and to verify this against data held by the ARCSC on public
servants.

29.        The government has coordinated the work o f the Financial Management Agent,
the ARTF Monitoring Agent and other bilaterally funded technical assistance, and will
shortly be able to announce that an initial nominal roll has been prepared and that
concrete steps have been taken to ensure that this is regularly updated and used as a
control mechanism.

30.       Donor Coordination.           The budget process is government's mechanism for
seeking to obtain some alignment between a large number o f donors in a fast-changing
environment. Public Administration and Economic Management (PAREM) is one o f 12
thematic areas covered by the Development Budget. Annex Isets out details o f the
SY1382 Development Budget for PAREM.

                                   12National Development Programs

    Pillar I Humanitarian/Human and
            -                            Pillar 2 -Physical           Pillar 3 - Governance and Security
    Social Capital                       Reconstruction and Natural    10. Trade and Investment
     1. Refugee Retum                    Resources                     11. Public Administration Reformand
    2. Education andVocational           6. Transport and                  Economic Management
        Training (Education                 Communications (Transport  12. Security and Rule ofLaw (Creation of
        Infrastructure)                     Project)                       a national army, Creation o f a national
    3. Health and nutrition              7.Energy and Mining              police force, Justice System, Mine
    4. Livelihoods and social protection 8. Natural Resource               clearance and awareness and
        (National Solidarity Program and    Management (Water              Demobilization)
        Emergency Public Works)            Resource Investment)
    5. Cultural heritage, media and      9. Urbanmanagement (Urban
        sports                              Infrastructure)




                                                        7

31.     These are sectoral coordination groups chaired by the relevant minister. A lead
donor i s designated as deputy chair and provides secretariat support for each group.
Relevant UNagencies and key NGOsparticipate inthe groups.



                              11. STRATEGICCONTEXT


A. World BankCountryStrategy

32.     A key objective of the World Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) to
Afghanistan (Report No: 25440 AF, February 2003) is to support the continued
development o f a well-functioning state that i s accountable to its citizenry and able to
ensure that delivery o f services in an equitable, efficient and effective manner. This
project supports this key objective and falls within one o f the four TSS focus areas:
govemance and public administration.

B. Sector Strategy

33.     Within the govemance and public administration reform agenda, the Bank's
strategy has been to identify pragmatic opportunities for action in the short term,
initiating a set o f immediate reforms which will be supportive o f longer term
improvements-but      without seeking to over-prescribe at a time o f great uncertainty. This
approach has been pursedinconjunction with other donors such as DFID who have bene
in a position to mobilize technical assistance quickly. It has entailed: (i)   ensuring that
emergency capacity i s in place-especially      in key fiduciary areas-while       launching
medium-term capacity building efforts; (ii)undertaking extensive diagnostic work
coupled with direct, hands-on TA and policy advice, to identify and address key
constraints; (iii)identifying short term goals that are fully-owned by government and
agreedwith all major donors; and (iv) providing gap financing when needed.        The short-
term goals that address pressing issues include passing a decree that would allow
increased wage payments in selected restructured ministerial departments, regulatingtop-
ups being paid to civil servants by NGOs and donors, improving payroll execution, and
enhancing budget execution outside o f Kabul. While medium and longer-term issues are
clearly important (e.g.,addressing deficiencies in skill-set and geographic balance inthe
civil service that could lead to the need for redundancies or undertaking comprehensive
wage reform), these measures will take time to implement and may be politically or
fiscally more difficult. The strategy recognizes that progress can be made through quick-
wins, and that this could gamer support for the more politically difficult medium-term
measures. Key to the strategy is to seek to ensure that short-term policy advice and
recommendations "do-no-harm" interms o f locking inlong-term obligations that may not
be consistent with the future vision ofthe public sector.

34.     EPAP focused on supporting the first prong o f the above strategy. Through
extensive analytical work and policy notes, buttressed by intensive dialogue in
Afghanistan with government and donor counterparts, the Bank identified a range o f
urgent technical assistance requirements (in areas such as developing a roster o f civil


                                             8

servants) which were financed by other donors. The Bank is currently working in a
similar fashion to better understandthe key issues at play inthe administrative and fiscal
relationships between the center, provinces and districts.       Policy notes have been
prepared in a variety o f areas, from improving payroll management to streamlining
government to pay policy.

35.     The World Bank and European Commission are the lead donors for the Kabul
based, PAREM consultative (working) group. The IMF also plays a lead role on a range
of economic management issues. With members o f this group, the World Bank has
sought to build strong collaboration and partnerships with government and donors. As
noted earlier, the PAREM development budget for SY1382 has now been prepared, and
the proposed Project would help implement key elements.


                           111. THE PROPOSEDPROJECT
A. Objectives

36.      The objective o f the Project is to assist the authorities to enhance the
accountability and transparency inthe management o fpublic resources and to implement
its National Development Budget. Specifically, this includes continued emphasis on the
objective o f the first EPAP-putting in place, on an emergency basis, capacity in key
public administration areas to facilitate better use o f public resources, including donor
funds, for urgent reconstruction and development efforts. A further emphasis o f this
project i s to begin to lay the foundation for more broad-based civil service reform
directed at increasing the efficiency with which basic services are delivered to the
population.

37.     Success in meeting the Project's objective will be measured by: the delivery o f
goods, services and works in line with the agreed procurement plan in a transparent
manner; accurate accounting andtimely reporting on budget execution, including detailed
reports submitted to donors (to the extent that their resources flow through the budget);
and the Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission gaining capacity to carry
out its core functions.

B. Projectdescription

38.     The Grant will finance the continued employment by TISA of qualified firms to
assist the authorities in carrying out, on an interim basis, government procurement and
selected financial management functions; develop the administration's capacity in these
areas; and assess existing systems andprocedures to recommend suitable policy reforms.
Services will also be provided to assist the ARCSC to develop its capacity to undertake
the development and oversight o f merit based appointments o f senior civil servants and
appeals, civil service management, and overall management and implementation o f
public administration reform program. Further services will be provided to ministries for
approved restructuring and for studies andinstitution buildingwithin selected entities.




                                            9

39.     The overall project cost i s $10.9 million, o f which the IDA grant i s $8.4 million
andDFIDis co-financing $2.5 million.

Component 1:Supplemental Supportfor EPAP Contracts
(US$4.3 million)

40.     The Emergency Public Administration Project was prepared rapidly under
difficult conditions with imperfect information. No reference information was available
on the cost o f service provision, given Afghanistan's difficult security and logistical post-
conflict environment. The EPAP appraisal document recognizedas a project risk that the
financial support notionally allocated for the procurement and financial management
agents may have been significantly under-scoped. Duringnegotiations, it was agreed that
should this be the case, supplemental financing would be sought. Since this eventuality
materialized, this component o f the proposed Project would provide the supplemental
financing   necessary to complete the originally envisioned work program for the
procurement and financial management agents.            The following table provides an
overview o f the original notional and revised EPAP allocations, and the supplemental
resources needed. Greater detail on the scope o f services being provided is provided in
the technical annex for the Emergency Public Administration Project (Report No: T 7520
AF, March2002).

                                   EPAPConsultant Services

                                   Original      Revised       Expected     Supplemental
    (US$ million)                    EPAP         EPAP           Actual         SEPAP
                                   Allocation   Allocation                     financinn
    Procurement Agent                 3.0           3.O            5.6            2.6
    Financial Management Agent        3.0           3.0           4.7             1.7
    Audit Agent                        1.5          2.3            2.3            0.0
    Other activities                   1.5          0.7            0.7            0.0
    TOTAL.                            9.0           9.0           13.3            4.3



41.     Procurement Strengthening (additional US$2.6 million). As defined in EPAP,
support i s being provided to put in place emergency procurement capacity to facilitate
rapid, transparent utilization o f donor resources for reconstruction and development.
This is being achieved by employing a specialized intemational firm (Procurement
Agent) for a two-year period to assist the authorities to c m y out government
procurement activities. The Procurement Agent mobilized at the end o f July 2002. The
terms o f reference for the Procurement Agent also include: building local procurement
capacity; and assessing existing laws, regulations, and procedures, and developing a
concrete action plan for enhancing the procurement environment and building human
capacity. This sub-component is expected to be fully implementedby September 2005.

42.     Accounting and Treasury Department Strengthening (additional US$l.7 million).
As defined in EPAP, support i s being provided to put in place emergency financial
management capacity to facilitate transparent accounting o f governmental expenditures


                                             10

and timely disbursements. This i s being done by employing a specialized international
firm (Financial Management Agent) for a two-year period. The Financial Management
Agent mobilized inthe beginningo f September 2002. The FinancialManagement Agent
works closely with the staff o f the MOF to ensure transfer o f knowledge and
development of capacity. This sub-component i s expected to be fully implemented by
September 2005.

Component 2: CivilService and Administrative Reform
(US5.1millionofwhichUS2.6 millionfromIDA)

43.     The United Kingdom, through DFID, is jointly co-financing this component,
which provides partial financing for critical parts o f      the Government's PAREM
development budget. There are three sub-components.

44.     Capacity building in the ARCSC ($1.7 million).      Technical assistance will be
provided to assist the ARCSC develop its capacity in three critical areas:              (i)
appointments and appeals; (ii) service management; and (iii)
                                 civil                                management o f the
public administrative reform program.     In addition, the ARCSC needs to be able to
provide support to line ministries for costing proposals when they seek priority reforrn
andrestructuring (PRR) status.

45.     Support to Public Administration Reform ($3.2 million).       The sub-component
provides technical assistance in two critical areas. The first area assists ministries that
have approved restructuring plans under the PRR decree to implement those plans. The
second area i s to provide gap financing for critical activities within the PAREM
development budget that are not funded by other donors. A total o f $1.3 million i s
reserved for the first activity. There is a disbursement condition on this activity. The
disbursement condition i s that regulatory action i s taken to put in place a framework
acceptable to the association to permit PRR o f ministerial departments. Several donors
have expressed interest inproviding additional resources to help ministries to implement
their reform and restructuring plans if the seed financing provided under the proposed
Project allows the ARCSC to demonstrate a viable framework.

46.     Support for Independent Evaluation ($0.2 million). To support the ARCSC to
more effectively absorb the technical assistance that would be provided under the
proposed Project, this sub-component provides resources for a six-monthly review o f
activities under the first two sub-components, with an aim to assess progress and make
recommendations to enhance the effectiveness o f the work planningandprogramming.

47.     Additional details on this component are provided inAnnex 11.

Component 3: Studies and Institutional Strengthening
(US1.5 million)

48.     Studies and Targeted Institutional Strengthening (US$I.5 million).      This sub-
component provides TISA with flexibility to commission studies that could generate
quick impact or which deal with key policy issues.       Flexibility is designed into this



                                            11

component in recognition o f the rapidly changing environment. The aim i s to provide
services to various ministries or agencies as may be requested by TISA. Requests for
financing under this component will be vetted through the Ministry o f Finance. This
component provides funding o f last-resort if other donor funds are not able to be quickly
mobilized for a priority activity. Activities will be screened against fit with the National
Development Budget and/or support to the principles underlying o f the National
Development Framework (e.g., role o f the state as supportive to the private sector,
environmental sustainability, role o fwomen indevelopment).

C. ImplementationArrangements

49.      ImplementationArrangements. Implementation arrangements will remain the
same as under EPAP for component 1. A A C A i s responsible for implementation o f
procurement strengthening; MOF i s responsible for implementation o f accounting and
treasury department strengthening.      Component 2 will be implemented by ARCSC.
Under this component, technical assistancebeingprovided for restructured ministries will
be carried out through the beneficiary ministerial department. Component 3 will be
implemented by the MOF.          However, no activities will be carried out without the
endorsement o f the relevant line minister. MOF will simply screen assistance needs
against available donor funding, and fit with the development budget. It i s recognized
that if there are institutional changes during the period o f implementation, implementing
agencies may need to be adjusted. A A C A has recently recruiteda core focal point for the
procurement unit. MOF and ARCSC will each need to appoint a specific individual as
the project focal point. Since the project emphasizes capacity building, continued efforts
will be needed to identify and appoint an adequate number o f civil service counterparts
with sufficient qualifications to work with the firms that will be providing services.
MOF will play the overall coordinating role.

50.      Procurement. There is limited procurement activity under this project. Each
implementing entity is responsible for providing terms o f reference and selection criteria
to the A A C A procurement unit which, with support from the Procurement Agent, will
undertake the procurement process for the various firms and individuals to be retained.
These arrangements should ensure compliance with IDA procurement procedures and
expedite implementation o f Project activities. Annex IV provides more information on
procurement arrangements.

51.      Disbursement and FinancialManagement Arrangements. Since there is no
Country Profile o f Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) for Afghanistan, there is inadequate documented knowledge o f
country issues and related strengths and weaknesses. However, IDA has gained
substantial insight from the four IDA projects that have been under implementation over
the past year. The overall assessment is that though the country's financial management
system i s not fully functional, appropriate mitigation measures are being taken such as
the engagement of the Financial Management Agent. Additional details are available in
Annex V.




                                             12

52.     Disbursements: Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be made in the
traditional mode (reimbursement with full documentation and against statements o f
expenditure) for boththe IDA and DFIDGrant, which will be administered by IDA. Due
to the nature o f the Project activities, this Project will have a relatively small number o f
direct payments.      However, provision for a Special Account with an Authorized
Allocation o f $500,000 will be included inthe Grant Agreement, inthe event such funds
are needed. This account will be opened and maintained in a commercial bank or D a
Afghanistan Bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.

53.     Audit: The accounts o f the Project will be audited by the Auditor General, with
the support o f the Audit Agent, with terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association.
The annual Project financial statements audited by external auditors would be submitted
within six months o fthe close o fTISA's fiscal year.

54.     Monitoring and Evaluation.            Monitoring arrangements include plans for
intensive supervisionby IDA to ensure that any implementation difficulties are dealt with
promptly.    At a minimum, a full supervision mission is needed twice a year, with
specialists visiting Afghanistan more frequently ifneeded duringProject implementation.
DFID has seconded a public sector management specialist to the World Bank Office in
Kabul, who will play a key role in day-to-day supervision o f the civil service reform
component o f the Project.        The Project also builds in twice-yearly independent
monitoring and evaluation o f the technical assistance being provided under the civil
service component to assist the authorities in evaluating the quality o f technical
assistance being delivered and to provide specific suggestions for enhancing its
effectiveness. IDA will carry out a mid-term performance review. A quarterly progress
report will be prepared and submitted to IDA, which consolidates all components
including progress towards meeting implementation and development objectives.
Responsibility for this reporting rests with MOF, with each implementing agency
agreeing to provide requisite input. Annex VI provides additional details on monitoring
indicators for the Project.

D. Justification

55.     Emerging from more than two decades o f crisis, the Afghan administration does
not have a track record o f transparent and efficient implementation o f a development
budget. This severely limits the scope for successful implementation o f a large recovery
program. Furthermore, concerns about accountability couldjeopardize the magnitude o f
donor support that has been pledged and will be required. Continuing to assist TISA in
building a nucleus o f implementation capacity (in procurement and financial
management) and showing credible results on the ground will help the TISA builda track
record o f performance, while also providing some assurance to donors o f appropriate
fiduciary accountability for budget resources. The additional activities supported by the
Project begin to lay foundations for reform in selected key areas o f the public
administration. Although public sector enhancement is a medium-term objective, it i s
crucial to set the tone in the short-term with effective support for initial steps in this
process.




                                               13

                        ANNEXI:PAREMDEVELOPMENT              BUDGET

A. GovernmentBudgetDocument

National DevelopmentProgram3.2:
Public Administration Reformand Economic Management

Source: Text directly reprintedfrom budget document. Transitional IslamicState of Afghanistan;
National Development BudgetAnd Ordinary Budget For Solar Year 1382 (1 Hamal-29 Hoot
1382).

Goal: To create an effective central Government that re-establishes national
unity on the basis of strong institutions. This involves building broad-based and
equitable community level participation and effective management at the local
level; installing strong systems of financial and information management; and
using the budget as an instrument of policy.

Program Backgroundand Description: The PublicAdministration Reform and
Economic Management program is an enabling program vital to the successful
development of Afghanistan and the establishment of a sound base for its
Government.

Benefits to the people of Afghanistan include the management and facilitation of
the Loya Jurga in December 2003 and the election in June 2004. The Public
Administration Reform and Economic Management Program will also manage
the major census and statistics gathering program across Afghanistan,which will
facilitate the delivery of goods and services across the country based on needs.

The program provides a range of services and functions that cut across
Ministries and support the effective operation of the Government. These include
the development and provision of financial and management systems and
support across Government, the management of the whole-of-Government
program of building reconstruction (considerably lower cost than running
individual projects in every Ministry), and the development of central policies and
strategies to reform and improve the civil service. The program will also manage
a venture capital fund to encourage investmentand facilitate the transfer of many
unnecessary SOEs to the private sector.

Policy Issues BeingAddressed:

      Development and implementation of primary and secondary legal
      framework.
      Personnel management (payscales, policies, retrenchments, capacity
      building, personneldatabase).
      Streamlining of institutional and functional structures (of the Civil Service
      Commission and of central Governmentstructures).



                                             14

     Cabinet processes, policy formulation capacity building, and Machinery of
     Government systems.
     Administrative efficiency (reviews and InformationTechnology)
      Support and capacity buildingto develop systems and processesfor:
       -   Operating/ development budgets
       -   Office of the Ministerfor Finance
       -   MoF provincialoffices
       -   Revenue (customs)office
       -   Da Afghanistan Bank
       --  Aid Coordination Unit
           Financial capacity of Government (CFOs)
       -
       -   Procurement
           Women in senior economic management
      Projectsto support gender analysis and balanceacross Government.
      National population census.
      Planning,preparationand implementation of Loya Jurga and election.
      Geodesy, cadastral and cartographicsurvey and mapping.
      Capacity building for CSO.
      Capacity BuildingGroups project (supportingall Ministries).
      Support for AACA.
      Coordination of national physical infrastructure of Government project
       (Kabul and provinces).


Sub-program I:Public Administration Reform

ExpectedResults:

Civil service regulatory framework and revised pay scale system; improvements
to senior management structures in Government, clarification of the roles and
responsibilities of all Ministries, and strengthened capacity of the Civil Service
Commission and Officeof the President.

Summary of Main Activities:

       Development and implementation of primary and secondary legal
       framework.
       Personnel management (payscales, policies, retrenchments, capacity
       building, personneldatabase).


                                         15

      Streamlining of institutional and functional structures (of CSC and of
      central Governmentstructures).
      Cabinet processes, policy formulation capacity building, and Machinery of
      Government systems.
      Administrativeefficiency(reviews and IT)



MANAGEMENT
     ADM"lSTRATloN      AND ECoNoMIC      Total proposedfunding ($USDm)    Total funded component($USDm)

       Project name    Program Ministry 1381  1382    1383    1384   Total 1381   1382   1383  1384  Total




Sub-program 2: Governance

Expected Results:

Expected resultsfrom this sub-program include:
       Improvegender balanceand the participationof women in Government.
      Completion of the bulk of Phase I of the populationand housing census.
      Successful facilitation of the Loya Jurga in December, and significant
      progress preparingfor the election in June 2004.
      Coordination of whole-of-Government Capacity Building Groups and
      functions (AACA).

Summary of Main Activities:

The Governance sub-program contains a range of public administration priorities
that do not fall within either the Public Administration Reform or the Economic
Managementsub-programs. These include:
      Projects which aim to improve gender balance and the participation of
      women (MoWA).
      Populationand housingcensus (CSO).
      Coordination of central Government documents such as ID cards (MoF).
      Loya Jurga and election (ElectoralCommission).
      Cadastral and mapping projects, and support to develop the Central
      Statistics Office.



                                               16

      0     Coordination of whole-of-Government Capacity Building Groups and
            functions (AACA).


GOVERNANCE:
                                                        Total proposedfunding ($USDm)      Total fundedcomponent ($Usom)

             Project name            Program Ministry 1381  1382    1383    1384   Total  1381    1382  1383  1384   Total

Gender analysis of civil service
staffing, recruitment,placement,      3.2.2  MoWA            0.100                 0.100          0.100               0.100
training and promotion
Gender responsive planning,
programming, budgeting, monitoring,   3.2.2  MoWA            0.100                 0.100
and evaluation
Gender impact assessment of public
enterpriseiadministrationreform       3.2.2  MoWA            0.050                 0.050
policiesand processes
Nationaldirectiveand technical
assistancepackageon gender
mainstreamingin policy making,       3.2.2   MoWA            0.070                 0.070
planning, programming, monitoring
and evaluation
Pilot projecton gender




(upgradeembassygrounds and          1                                             I12.000l      I      I     I      I      I



Sub-program 3: Economic Management

Expected Results:
            Implementation of a consistent national revenue management system, and
            improved procurement systems, aid coordination and public information
            systems for Government.
            Improved capacity in all Ministries to operate financial management and
            planning functions; improved opportunities for (and representation of)
            women in senior economic management positions.



                                                            17

            Functioning systems in the Da Afghanistan Bank.

Summary of Main Activities:

Key priorities in the Economic Management sub-program include capacity
building and support to develop:
            The operating/development budget, the Office of the Minister for Finance,
            the Ministry of Finance provincial offices, Revenue (Customs) office, Da
            Afghanistan Bank, procurement function, and the Aid Coordination and
            Public Information Units;
            Improved financial capacity of Government (Chief Financial Officers in
            Ministries), and improved opportunities for women in senior economic
            management.

                                                   Project Summary

ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT:
                                 -
                                   'rogram
                                 -         'dinistry 1381II1382 I1383 I1384 IITotal 11381I1382 II1383 1I   IITotal
Women in senior economic                           I            I     I            I     I
                                     3.2.3  MoF    1     I 0.150/     I     I 0.1501     I0.1501     I 1384 I0.1501
                                                                                                                  i
Treasury department assistance
(Grants Management System,
Financial Management Information     3.2.3  MoF      1.293 3,000 0.835        5.128 1.293 3.000 0.835        5.128

                                 -
Office of the Auditor-General:
technicalassistance                  3.2.3  MoF      0.455 1.000 0.745        2.200 0.455 1.000 0.745        2.200


of Government(CFOs)                  3.2.3  MoF            3.600 3.600  1.843 9.043       3.600 3.600 1.843 9.043


Ministryof Finance               -   3.2.3  MoF            0.050 0.050        0.100


capacity building                    3.2.3  MoF            3.399  1.999       5.398       3.399 1.999        5.398


technicalassistanceand facilities    3.2.3
rehabilitation
MoF provincialoffices: equipment     3.2.3

Developmentbudget: supportand        3.2.3  MoF            4.000  7.000 3.000 14.000      4.000 4.000        8.000

Aid CoordinationUnit and Public
InformationUnit:establishand         3.2.3  MoF      0.400 0.500  0.200       1.100 0.400 0.500 0.200        1.100
develoo
Procurement: technical assistance  - 3.2.3  MoF      1.345 2.994  4.339       8.678 1.345 2.994 4.339        8.678

                                     3.2.3  DaB      4.051 3.038  3.038       10.128 4.051 3.038 3.038       10.128

DaAfahanistanBank: equipmentand
                        . .
structiral support                 - 3.2.3  DaB            1.100              1.100        1.100              1.100

Da AfghanistanBank: Evaluation     - 3.2.3  DaB            0.270              0.270        0.270             0.270




                                                           18

B. Project'sFit in the DevelopmentBudget

          As illustrated in the table below, EPAP and SEPAP are in-line with the
government's developmentbudget.



'rojectname                                                 1381-83
PAREM budget)                      Entily 1381  1382  1383  Total              Funding sources: notes


Civil Service Legal Framework      ARCSC        0.6    0.1   0.7


PersonnelManagement                ARCSC        2.1    3.8   5.9    SEPAP: $1.7 million. A donor has indicated
                                                                    support of about $3.3 million for likely
                                                                    financing under this area.


Institutional and Functional       ARCSC        0.7    0.9   1.5    SEPAP: $1.3 million. Additional bilateral
Streamlining and Development                                        support i s expectedto provide interim
                                                                    assistance until SEPAP consultants are in
                                                                   place.


Administrative Efficiency          ARCSC         0.6   0.7   1.5

                                                                    SEPAP: $2.1 million. For priority activities
                                                                    inthe aboveareasnot fundedby other
                                                                    donors.


Total PAREMBudget under ARCSC                    4.0   5.5   9.6    SEPAP: $5.1


Treasury department assistance     MOF     1.3   3.0   0.8   5.I    EPAP: $3 million, SEPAP: $1.7 million.
                                                                    Additional resources possible for
                                                                    strengthening grant management, payroll.


Office of the Auditor-General: TA  AGO     0.4   1.0   0.7   2.2    EPAP: $2.2 million.


Procurement: TA, capacity building AACA    1.3   3.0   4.3   8.7    EPAP: $ 3 million, SEPAP: $2.6 million.

(Corrected numbers)                       (1.3) (3.0) (1.3)  (5.6)  Figures inparentheses correct what seem to
                                                                    be a typo in the development budget.




                                                     19

                               ANNEX11: PROJECT          DETAILS

Component2: CivilService andAdministrativeReform

        Summary. The Civil Service and Administrative Reform Component o f the
proposedProject i s beingjointly co-financed by DFID. It i s summarized inthe following
table:

          Project           Purpose                                            Resources
          subcomponent
                            Assistingthe ARCSC to developits capacityto        $1.7 m
          ( 1) Capacity     undertake:
          buildinginthe      - Appointments and Appeals
          ARCSC              - Civil Servicemanagement
                             - Mgt o fthe PublicAdministrativeReformProgram
                            Costingministries'            To assistMinistries
                           restructuringproposals         indeveloping

                            ProvidingTA to ministries     proposalsto reform
          ( 2 ) Public                                    and restructure      $3.lm
                            approvedfor restructuring     depmentswhich        (40%
          Administration   under the ''Priority Reform
          Reform           andRestructuring"Decree        are            out   reservedfor
                                                          critical functions   p m
                                                          within the Ministry  ministries)



                           Assistingthe ARCSC to implement the PAREM
                            programofthe NationalDevelopmentBudget
          (3 ) Independent 6-monthlyreviewsofprogressto provideguidance        $0.2 million
          evaluation        to govemment on the directionofadministrative
                           reform


        There will be one consultancy contract for each sub-component. It i s anticipated
that the services provided will be primarilytechnical assistance inthe form o f reports and
training, with some longer-term resident advisers. Once a contractor is mobilized, the
firm will provide consulting support based on the agreed work plan. Staff to be used
should meet the pre-agreed qualifications and experience standards and the govemment
will be providedwith the CVs o f all staffto be usedprior to their involvement inspecific
tasks.

        Sub-component 1: Capacity Building in the ARCSC.                                  This project
subcomponent will assist the ARCSC in developing its capacity to undertake each o f its
three key tasks:

    0   Appointments and Appeals. In order to fulfill its mandate under the Bonn
        Agreement, the Commission will recruit and promote candidates for senior civil
        service posts on merit, and will develop and oversee the application o f merit-
        based recruitment procedures for the remainder o f the Civil Service.                    The
        Commission will also hear appeals and deal with grievances from civil servants.
        Two independent Boards are being appointed for these purposes.

    0   Civil Sewice management. The Commission will develop a new Civil Service
        Law, andwill review and amend as necessary existing legislation on Civil Service
        employment, and will develop personnel policies and procedures to ensure the


                                                 20 .

        legislation i s applied in practice.     The Commission will be responsible, in
        consultation and collaboration with Ministries, for conducting reviews of
        institutional structures and administrative processes in order to improve the
        efficiency and effectiveness o f government business, and will develop strategies
        for enhancing the use o f modem information technology throughout government.
        A Civil Service Management Department is beingformed to carry out these tasks.

    a  Administrative Reform. The Commission is the focal point within government for
        oversight, coordination and management o f the Public Administration Reform
        Program. This addresses seven priority areas:
        1.       Civil Service legal framework
        2.      Personnel management
        3.      Institutional and functional streamlining and development
        4.      Financialmanagement and accountability
        5.      Policy management andmachinery o f government
        6.      Administrative efficiency
        7.      Physical infrastructureimprovement.

        These priority "pillars" however have far reaching implications for all ministries,
and a number have begunwork in areas relevant to them. For example, the Ministry o f
Finance has led on much o f the forth item, and obviously have an interest in the fiscal
implications o f the institutional and functional streamlining and pay reform policy.

        This subcomponent o f the proposed Project is primarily a contribution towards
priority area 3 o f the PAREM Development Budget: "Institutional and fbnctional
streamlining and development."

        The structure proposed for the ARCSC to undertake these tasks is indicated inthe
figure on the following page, showing the three discrete functions contained within the
Commission. However the organization structure may evolve differently as the work
proceeds. The structure has been developed to maintain some distinction between the
independent oversight functions o f the ARCSC andthe public sector reformmanagement
tasks. It i s unusual and less than ideal that these functions are combined within the same
organization but capacity constraints elsewhere ingovernment make this unavoidable.

        In addition, this subcomponent will provide the facility to prepare and cost
proposals for restructuring ministries and departments under a decree currently under
preparationby the government. This decree will allow Ministries to develop proposals to
reform and restructure departments that are carrying out critical functions within the
Ministry, and for approval for these departments to be granted priority reform and
restructuring (PRR) status. With the exception o f `beyond' grade posts, Ministries may
propose that specified posts within Departments granted PRR status should be placed on
an interim additional allowance (IAA) scale pending the introduction o f comprehensive
pay and grading reforms; and may nominate individuals for appointment to such posts on
a time-limited basis and subject to performance.




                                              21

1n




                    N
                    N


 ------l




      --A----- (

        I

        Granting o f PRR status and transfer o f posts and staff to the interim additional
allowance scale will be subject to the approval o f a Reform and Restructuring Board
chaired by the Vice President. The Reform and Restructuring Board will be assisted by
the Administrative Reform Secretariat within the Administrative Reform and Civil
Service Commission, which will provide technical analysis o f the proposals. Approval
for PRR status will be granted only ifspecified criteria are met, which demonstrate:
    a.      the strategic importance o fthe departmentis concerned; and
    b.      that the proposed reforms and restructuring will significantly improve
            operational efficiency and effectiveness.

        Approval for transfer o f specified posts and staff to the interim additional
allowance scale will be granted only on the basis that:
    a.      the specified posts are essential to the operational effectiveness o f the PRR
            Department; and
    b.      staff nominatedto fillthe specified posts are demonstrably capable o f carrying
            out the requiredduties.

        The subcomponent will provide funding for development and costing o f
ministries' restructuring proposals prepared under the PRR decree or equivalent. The
development and costing o f ministry and departmental restructuring proposals i s to be
separated from their implementation to avoid the conflict o f interest inherent inthe same
firm both specifying how much TA is needed for a particular ministry or department
which is being restructured, and also providing that TA.

        The subcomponent i s expected to cost about $1.7 million and would be
implemented over a two year time period. It is anticipatedthat the services provided will
be primarily technical assistance in the form o f reports and training, with some longer-
term resident advisers. Provision o f a limited amount o f goods and equipment is to be
included inthe consultant contract.

        Sub-component (2): Support for public administrationreform. This project
subcomponent provides a flexible facility to assist the Administrative Reform and Civil
Service Commission to implement the PAREM program o f the National Development
Budget (NDB) in any o f the following areas where other resources and donor inputs are
insufficient:
1.      Civil Service legal framework
2.      Personnel management
3.      Institutional & fictional streamlining& development
5.      Policy management andmachinery o f government
6.      Administrative efficiency

        The PAREMprogram o f the NDBprovides ceilings for each o f these areas during
the two years inwhich the project will be effective. These are set out in Annex B. The
amounts to be funded under this project fall within the ceilings provided by the PAREM
program. It i s anticipated that other donors will make up any shortfall between the
resources provided by this project andthe amount required.



                                             23

        The subcomponent i s expected to cost about $3.1 million to be implementedover
a two year period. The services and goods will be provided through a single firm or
consortium. Provision o f a limited amount o f goods and equipment are to be included in
the consultant contract. It i s anticipated that the services provided will be targeted at
those areas where other donors are not supporting priorities within the PAREM program
of the National Development Budget.

        Forty percent o f the value o f this subcomponent will provide support for
ministries in implementing agreed restructuring proposals under the PRR decree. It i s
important to note that if the PRR decree, or an equivalent, i s not passed then this
subcomponent will be reduced by that amount. It is anticipated that the services provided
by this 40% o f the subcomponent will consist primarily o f the preparation of detailed
implementation plans for departmental or ministry restructuring, assistance in the
evaluation o f current staff and in assessing their suitability for employment within the
restructureddepartment or ministry, and training.

        It is important that the development and implementation o f PRR proposals takes
place as quickly as possible. The ARCSC, with DFID support, has already begun to
complete an initial snapshot o f ministries' main functions, structures and senior staffing
levels, in order to pave the way for institutional streamlining. Individual ministries are
actively participating in this process. It is anticipated that initial PRR proposals will be
completed inup to 15 to 20 departments by the end o fNovember 2003, that consideration
and approval takes place by the end o fDecember, and that implementation commences in
upto 10departments from January 2004.

        Proposals will be concise and follow a standard format. Technical assistance will
be provided to develop the proposals but it is important that these do not become overly
bureaucratic.    The approach o f the proposed Project i s to support the rapid
implementationo fpublic administration reforms.

        Sub-component (3): Independent evaluation of progress and priorities in
administrative and civil service reform.        This subcomponent will provide 6-monthly
reviews o f progress as guidance to the government on the direction of administrative
reform. This will be o f strategic value to the ARCSC as it develops and refines its reform
approaches.

        Firms/consortia providing services under the first two sub-components are
required to provide the government with six monthly reports on progress, together with a
plan showing the anticipated projects and business activities to be provided under the
contract duringthe next six months. This component will assist government inits review
of these six monthly reports andplans.

        The subcomponent will provide professional services o f about $200,000 over the
period in which the first two sub-components are under implementation. The services
will beprovidedthrough a single firm or individual.




                                              24

         Anticipated Achievements. Given the flexible nature o f this component, it is
not possible to specify anticipated concrete project results.                    However, several broad
project outcomes can be identified, including:

    a    The establishment o f a sound legal framework for a professional, ethical,
          equitable and politically impartial Civil Service;
    0    The establishment o f effective civil service management systems to attract, retain
         andmotivate qualified employees on the basis ofmerit;
    0    Functional structures and administrativeprocedures that enable the govemment to
          fulfill its commitments;
    a    Improved managerial and administrativecapacity within the Civil Service.

         Some o f the specific results from projects inthe PAREM budget are summarized
inthe following table.

                     PAREMBudgetProjectsUnder the Responsibilityof the ARCSC

 ACTIVITY                                    EXPECTEDRESULTS


 Civil Service law & employment regulations  Clarity about the role andfunctions o f the Civil Service; the
                                             principles and the ethical standards governing its activities; and
                                             the basic terms on which Civil Servants will be employed (by
                                             end 2003)



    Interim salary scale for key staff       Highcaliber staff appointedto key posts on the govemment
                                             payroll (by end 2003)
    Phasingout o f donor top-ups             Regularization o f donor-supported posts within the govemment
                                             payroll (mid 2004)
    Develop comprehensive                    A nominalroll of all govemment employees andtimely
    govemment payroll system                 payments in Kabul and the provinces (end 2003)
    Labor market surveys                     Realistic comparators for Civil Service pay
    Pay and grading structure review         Pay & grading structure which reflects fiscal realities and
                                             provides career incentives to all civil servants
    Job classification                       All existingposts assigned to new grading structure

 B:PersonnelDolicies & urocedures            A personnelmanagement handbook provinginstruction &
                                             guidance on the application of common standards o f good
                                             personnel practices across the Civil Service

                                             Senior managers and personnel staff trained to apply personnel
                                             management policies & procedures

 D:Retrenchment                              Affordable arrangements which effectively and considerately
                                             enable rightsizingo f govemment institutions
    Develop retrenchment arrangements        Agreement on financial, re-training & redeployment options
                                             for retrenched staff
   Implement retrenchment arrangements       Retrenched staffare retired, retrained or redeployed

 E:PersonnelManagement Information System   A comprehensive database to support Civil Service personnel
                                             planning and training, sustainable on a long-term basis
   PMIS specification & design               Personnel management information needs assessedand system
                                             designed
    Installation and operation               PMIS system installed and operational

 ACTIVITY                                        EXPECTEDRESULTS

 Institutional & functional streamlining& development
 A Center of government resuonsibiliLiesfor      A decree establishingthe respectiveroles andresponsibilities
    admnistrative reform                         for administrativereformo f centralgovernment agencies (mid
                                                 2003)
 B ARCSC cauacitvbuilding                        ARCSC is fulfilling itsremit efficiently and effectively
    Establishmentof ARCSC                        Key staffinpost and senior staffrecruitment procedures
                                                 developed(mid 2003)
    Work programdevelopment                      Work programfor ARCSC unitsdevelopedandagreed(mid
                                                 2003)
    Training & mentoring                         ARCSC staff are carryingout their dutieseffectively

 C: Ministrv reviews                             Ministries are structuredand staffed appropriatelyto fulfill
                                                 their responsibilities
    Methodology                                  Methodologyandprioritizedreviewprogramdevelopedand
                                                 agreed
    Program                                      Rollingprogramofreviewsconductedand implemented

 E: Management& Admnistration institutional
 cauacitv building
    Reviewrequirements andfundingoptions         Agreement on affordableand sustainableinstitutional
    for Civil Service managementtraining         arrangements for Civil Servicemanagementtraining
    Establishment of Civil Service               Management& admnistrationtraining & development
 managementtraining mstitutiods                  providedto key staffacross the Civil Service

 A: Administrative efficiencvreviews             Govemmentbusinesstransactedmore economcally,
                                                 efficiently andeffectively

 B:IT enhancement                                Affordable, time-boundandprioritized ITimprovement
                                                 programs implementedleadingto increasedefficiency &
                                                 effectivenessof governmentbusiness



          The overarching objective i s the implementationo f a strategy for reform o fpublic
administration, contributing to a sound, ethical and lawful public administration that can
contribute to the hture peace, stability and economic prosperity o f Afghanistan, and the
reductiono fpoverty among the Afghan people.

          Some basic actions inpublic administration should be achieved by the launch o f
the project component. Ifnot, these will form the initialpriorities:

    0     Controlling employment totals. An employee database has been compiled on the
          basis o f all o f the salary claims submitted by government departments inmonth 6
          of SY1381. A further Accounting Entry Module database is being developed to
          record claims submitted on an accrual basis (Le., the month for which the
          payment i s due) rather than a cash basis (i.e., the month for which a payment is
          made. Government has said it will take concrete steps to ensure the nominal roll
          is regularlyupdated to serve as a control mechanism.

    0     Disciplining the use of salary top-ups. Uncoordinated top-ups contribute to wage
          inflation within the public sector, and generally entail the movement o f skilled
          staff within the country rather than bringing in new skilled labor from overseas.
          Most damagingly, however, top-ups and other incentives undermine management
          within the individual sectors. Service delivery would be significantly improved



                                                        26

 by some regulation o f these incentives. Government has indicated that a decree,
 jointly agreed by the Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission and
  the Ministryo fFinance, i s about to be passed.

0 Reducing ad hoc restructuring. It i s understood that a decree will shortly be
  passed allowing a program o f interim reforms to be implemented within key
  government ministries. This would allow pro-active departments to formalize the
  chaotic hiring o f consultants and contract staff, and would enable them to place
  staff on more appropriate fixed term, but better remunerated, contracts. Staff
  whose skills are no longer necessary would be relocated to other units within the
  ministry, or to other govemment departments.        Such reforms are essential for
  competent staff to be paid and retained, and for managers to be given greater
  autonomy inmanagingtheir departments.




                                       27

                      ANNEX111:PROJECTCOST SUMMARY



        Project Cost by Component,ExpenditureCategory, andFinancier
                                    (US$ million)

                                         EPAP   Civil Service  Studies       Total
                                   Supplement         Reform
Consultants, Training, Audit              4.30           5.10     1.50       10.90
 Of which financed by IDA                 4.30           2.60     1.50       8.40
 Of which financed byDFID                    0           2.50        0       2.50




                         Project Costsby Component (%)

   Component                               Percent of Total   Percent o f IDA
                                               costs           Financing
   EPAP Supplemental                            39.4              51.2
   Civil Service Reform                         46.8              31.0
   Studies                                      13.8              17.9
   Total                                       100.0              100.0




                    Project CostsbyExpenditureCategory (YO)

                  ExpenditureCategory             Percent

                   Consultants and Training        100.0




                                         28

                          ANNEXIV: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

A. InstitutionalCapacity

         There are limited procurement activities under this project, all related to the
retention of consultant services. Two contracts are on-going for which supplemental
financing   is being sought, and two additional large contracts are to be finalized within the
first three months o f project implementation. Hence, it i s expected that by September 30,
2003, the project will be over 80 percent committed. The ARCS currently has the
assistance needed to provide the A A C A procurement unit with the necessary terms o f
reference and selection criteria for the consultancy assignments under the component it i s
implementing. The Procurement Agent i s inplace to ensure that the A A C A procurement
unitis able to handletheprocurement process.

         Balancing the limited procurement activities and the presence o f a Procurement
Agent with the post-conflict environment, the procurement risk is considered medium.
Project supervision will include procurement expertise inmost early missions, and to the
extent needed over entire period the o f the IDA Grant. Threshold limits described below
have been set considering these risks.

B. ProcurementMethods

         Procurement under the IDA Grant would be carried out in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
(January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The "Bank's Standard
Request for Proposals: Selection o f Consultants" (July 1997, revised April 1998, July
 1999, andM a y 2002) would beused for consulting services.

         Consulting Sewices (US$lO.9 million). A description, estimated cost and method
of selection o f consultancies are provided below:
-~
No.     Description of Services                     Estimated Cost  Method of Selection
 1.     Technical Assistance and Support to AACA     US$ 2.6 million CQ (on-going contract)
        Procurement Agent
2.      Technical Assistance and Support to MOF      US$ 1.7 million CQ (on-going contract)
        Financial Management Agent
3.      Technical Assistance and Support to          US$1.7 million QBS
        ARCSC Capacity Building

4,      Technical Assistance and Support for Public  US$ 3.2 million QBS
        Administration Reform
5.      Technical Assistance and Support to          USS0.2 million CQlInd
        ARCSC Independent Evaluation
6.      Studies and Institutional Capacity Building  US$1.5 million QCBSlQBSlCQlSSlInd
        (estimated two to six contracts)




                                                   29

        Contracts may also include supply o f goods o f about 15 percent o f the value o f
consultancy to be brought by the consultants for their use duringthe course o f assignment
andto be left withthe client, after its use.

        IDA'S clearance of terms o f reference and single source selections will be
mandatory irrespectiveof the value o fthe assignment.

C.ProcurementPlanning

        With a very limitednumber o f contracts, the procurement plan for this project is
very straightforward. Two contracts are on-going for which supplemental financing i s
being sought, and two additional large contracts are to be finalized within the first three
months o f project implementation. Hence, it is expected that by September 30, 2003, the
project will be over 80 percent committed. Procurement planning for the remainder o f
the Project will be done in conjunction with the identification o f specific activities that
will be supported.

D. Prior andPostReview

        All contracts for consulting services contracts above US$lOO,OOO for firms and
above US$50,000 for individual consultants, would be subject to prior review by IDA.
All other contracts would be subject to post-review on a randombasis duringsupervision
missions and audits.

E. ProcurementInformation

        The Procurement Agent will prepare procurement information that will be
collected and recordedas follows:

    1.prompt reportingof contract awardinformation for the respective components; and

    2. comprehensive quarterly reports prepared byAACA indicating:
        a      revised cost estimates for individual contracts andtotal cost;
        a      revised timings o f procurement actions including advertising, bidding,
               contract award andcompletion time for individual contracts; and
        e      compliance report by A A C A within three months o f the Grant signing
               date.

F.ProposedProcurementArrangements

        The Project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods o f procurement
are summarized in Table A. Consultant Selection Arrangements are given in Table Al.
Thresholds are given inTable B.




                                            30

               Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                    (US$ million equiva1ent)l




  Services                             0.0                  10.9                   10.9




11  All costs include contingencies
21  Includes goods to be procured through limitedintemational bidding; nationallinternational
    shopping andor through UNagencies, and under direct contracting consulting services, training,
    and audit.



                   Table A1:Consultant Selection Arrangements
                                 (US$ million equiva1ent)l




                      (0.0)      (3.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)      (4.6)     (0.2)       (0.0)      (7.8)
 B.Individuals         0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0        0.7        0.0        0.7
                      (0.0)      (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.6)       (0.0)      (0.6)
 Total                 0.0        5.4     0.0      0.0       4.6         0.9        0.0        10.9
                      (0.0)      (3.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)      (4.6)     (0.8)       (0.0)      (8.4)

1/  All costs include contingencies

    Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA.

    QCBS: Quality and Cost-Based Selection
    QBS:   Quality-Based Selection
    SFB:    Selection under a FixedBudget
    LCS:    Least-Cost Selection
    CQ:     Selection Based o n Consultants' Qualifications
    Other: Selection o f Individual Consultants (per Section V o f Consultants Guidelines), Single
            Source Selection o f Firms, SOEs for Audit, Training, Commercial Practices, etc.




                                               31

                   Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPriorReview

       . Expenditure
                                                           Procurement
                                                    ,--- ' e
                                                          7 ' Method            =.
                                                               1     J    s
                                                                            I , /
                                                             'i' f
  ~                      i
   1.Services

   a) Firms                Above US$lOO,OOO        Bank Guidelines as per             10.2
                                                   ParagraphB2above.




   b) Individuals          US$50,000 or above                                         0.7



TOTAL Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review: US$10.9 million


OverallProcurementRiskAssessment: Medium

Frequency o fprocurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 months and as
needed (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).




                                            32

      ANNEXV: FINANCIAL        MANAGEMENT       & DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS

CountryIssues

        Since there is no Country Profile o f Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Afghanistan, there i s inadequate
documented knowledge o f country issues and related strengths and weaknesses.
However, IDA has gained substantial insight from the four IDA projects that have been
under implementation over the past year. The overall assessment is that although the
country's financial management system i s not filly functional, appropriate mitigation
measures are being taken such as the engagement o fthe Financial Management Agent.

Strengths

        The engagement o f the Financial Management Agent; the government's
commitment to transparent and accountable financial management; and the use o f direct
payments for the very limited number o f contracts under the Project are the primary
strengths of the Project's financial management system.

AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

        The Project will follow standard government financial management policies and
procedures, including using the Chart o f Accounts developed by the Financial
ManagementAgent to recordProject expenditures.

        Project accounts will be consolidated centrally in the Ministry o f Finance, in
particular, the Grant Management Unit (GMU), with support from the Financial
Management Agent. Consolidated Project financial statements will be prepared for all
sources anduses o fProject finds.

Audit Arrangements

        The accounts o f the Project will be audited by the Auditor General, with the
support o f the Audit Agent, with terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association. The
annual Project financial statement to the Association would include a summary o f funds
received (showing funds received from all sources), and a summary o f expenditures
shown under the main Project components/activities and by main categories o f
expenditures. The format o f the annual Project financial statements will be similar to the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).      The audit o f the Project accounts would also
include an assessment o f (a) the adequacy o f the accounting and internal control
systems; (b) the ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions; and (c) the
eligibility o f incurred expenditures for Association financing.       The annual Project
financial statements audited by the Auditor General, supported by the Audit Agent,
would be submitted within 6 months o f the close o f fiscal year, i.e. by September 22 o f
each year.     The following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Reports
Compliance System (ARCS):



                                            33

ResponsibleAgency               Audit                           Auditors
MOF                             SOE, ProjectAccounts and        Auditor General
                                Special Account

ReportingandMonitoring

        Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will beproducedshowing: (i) and  sources
uses of funds by disbursement category and project component; (ii)        physical progress;
and (iii) o f procurement activities.
          status                               These will be submitted to the Association
within 45 days o fthe end ofthe quarter.

DisbursementArrangements

                                Allocation of GrantProceeds

                  ExpenditureCategory            Amount (USD)            Financing
                                                                         Percentage
             Consultants services                       8.4 million         100%
             Total                                      8.4 million

        Financing Percentage.      The SDP for Afghanistan has been set at 100%.
However, the SDP was set based on the working assumptionthat no taxes being collected
on IDA financed activities.      In the future, if it becomes apparent that withdrawal
applications are being submittedthat are not net o f taxes, then the SDP would need to be
adjusted and the financing percentage for hture operations would be less than 100%.

        Disbursement Method. Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be transaction-
based (replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special
Commitments) with full documentation or against statements o f expenditures as
appropriate).

        Cojinancing. DFID is providingjoint co-financing inthe amount of $2.5 million
for component 2.

        Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements will be made on the
basis o f SOEs for: (a) consultants and training for contracts not exceeding US$lOO,OOO
for firms andUS$50,000 for individual and all training andaudit.

        Special Account.      The Special Account will opened and maintained in a
commercial bank or Da Afghanistan Bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association; and would be operated by MOF-GMUin accordance with the Association's
operational policies. The Authorized Allocation will be $500,000.

        Minimum application size. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account
will be submitted (a) monthly, regardless o f amount, or (2) when the Special Account
balance is reduced by 40%, whichever comes first. The minimum application size or




                                             34

withdrawal applications for reimbursement, direct payment, or for applications for
Special Commitments i s 20% o fthe Authorized Allocation o fthe Special Account.

       Authority to withdraw Grantfunds. MOF-GMUwill retain the right to sign and
submit withdrawal applications to the Association.

                                     Disbursementschedule

                                                                  % of Expenditures
          ~                               Amount o f the Grant
                                          Allocated (Expressed    to be Financed
           Category                       inSDREquivalent)
           Consultants, training, audit             6.1                   100
           TOTAL                                    6.1                   100

                     Disbursementtimetable (World Bank fiscal year)

                                       Amount        Total for period      Cumulative
                                        US$ m              ("/.I disbursements
                                                                              ("/.I
      FY04 first semester                     0.30                3.6                3.6
      FY04 second semester                    2.05              24.4                28.0
      FY05 first semester                     3.15              37.5                65.5
      FY05 second semester                    1.80              21.4                86.9
      FY06 first semester                     0.65                7.7               94.6
      FY06 second semester                    0.45                5.4              100.0


SupervisionPlan

       From a financial management perspective, the Project will need close supervision.
The focus during supervision will be on the internal control arrangements for the Project
andfunctioning o f accounting, financial reporting and auditing.

FinancialCovenants
   (a) TISA shall submit to IDA audited financial statements within 6 months o f the end
       of each fiscal year.
   (b) TISA shall maintain throughout the Project implementation period, a satisfactory
       financial management system.
   (c) Financial MonitoringReports will be submitted on a quarterly basis.
   (d) Audit of the Special Account, SOEs and the Project financial statements will be
       performedinaccordance with terms o f reference agreed with the Association.




                                              35

                                    ANNEXVI: MONITORING

The following table provides detailed information on monitoring outputs and outcomes
for each component o f the project.

Component                Monitoringindicators                              Goals

                                               Component 1

Procurementstrengthening  September 2005: Auard the work specified inthe     Procurementcapacitynot a
                         agreedprocurement planto ensure that rhc goods,     constraint to the
                          sen ices and works are deli\ ercd as per agreed    reconstructionprogram.
                          schedule (Progressreports) Action plan for         (Supervisionreports,
                         procurement strengtheningagreed and under           including from other IDA
                          implementation(Supervisionreports).                financed projects).

                                                                             Programinplace for
                                                                             medium-termenhancement
                                                                             of procurementenvironment,
                                                                             including any continued
                                                                             temporary arrangements
                                                                             (Supervisionreports).

Treasury andAccounting   Sept 2005: Computerized systemfor basic             Accuratelyrecorded
Department Strengthening expendituremanagement inplace andhnctioning         expendituresandstrong
                         inselect locations. Action planto further enhance   intemalcontrol, including for
                         the financialmanagement environment prepared        all IDAprojects; regularand
                         (Progress andsupervisionreports).                   timely reporting(Supervision
                                                                             reports, including from other
                                                                             IDA financedprojects).

                                                                             Programinplacefor
                                                                             medium-termenhancement
                                                                             of financialmanagement
                                                                             environment, includingany
                                                                             continuedtemporary
                                                                             arrangements(Supervision
                                                                             reports).



Capacity building ARCSC  Jan 2004: ARCSC is staffed, work programis          ARCSC undertakesits role in
                         developed. (Supervisionreports, DFID                appointmentsandappeals,
                         monitoring).                                        civil servicemanagement and

                         March2004: Recruitmentfor senior civil service      managementof the public

                         positionsbasedonmerit (Progressand supervision      administrationreform

                         reports). Work programis beingimplemented.          program(Supervision
                                                                             reports).
                         Throughout projectimplementation: Ongoing
                         implementationof work programsagreed on a
                         quarterlybasisbetweenARCSCIDFID andWorld
                         Bank(supervisionreports, DFID monitoring).

Supportto PublicAdmin    Dec 2003: Methodologyandprioritized review          Througharollingprocess,
Reform                   programdevelopedand agreed(Progressand              ministries are structured and
                         supervisionreports).                                 staffedappropriatelyto fulfill

                         June 2004: Restructuringcompletedinat least 5-      their responsibilities

                          10departments(Progressandsupervisionreports).       (Supervisionreports)

                         Gap financingof essentialprojectsinthe PARAM         Critical projectsinthe Public
                         budget (Budget executionreports).                    AdministrationReform
                                                                              nPriPinnmPnt  rzllrlmPt




                                                    36

                            IJune 2006: Restructuring completed inat least 15
                                                      -~                         I Development Budgetare-
                             departments (Progress and supervision reports).       financed.

Support for Independent      June 30,2005:    At least one independent             Effectiveness o f TA being
Evaluation                   evaluation completed, and results incorporated into   provided for capacity
                             future work planning (Progress and supervision        building and support to
                             reports).                                             public administrationreform

                             June 30,2006: A total o f at least three evaluation    i s enhanced (Supervision

                             completed, and results incorporated into future       reports).

                             work planning (Progress and supervision reports).




Studies and Institutional    June 30,2004: At least one interventions financed      Support providedto facilitate
Strengthening                (Progress reports).                                   the initiation o f at least two

                             June 30,2005: A total o f at least two interventions   "quick-win"/priority
                                                                                    activities (Progress and
                             financed (Progress reports).                           Supervision reports).
                             March 20,2006: A total o f at least three
                             interventions financed (Progress reports).




                                                        37


