                                                                                   35528

                                    I. BACKGROUND

1.     The Economic Governance Reform Operation has provided financial support to
the Government's stabilization program and helped implement critical economic
governance reforms to increase transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources
and external assistance. Critical objectives included: (a) improvement of budgetary
processes; (b) strengthening of public procurement processes; (c) stepping up of anti-
corruption efforts; (d) improving efficiency and transparency in the management of
public enterprises and the Road Maintenance Fund; and (e) creating a mechanism for
civil society to monitor economic governance reforms and supporting Government
communications efforts to increase public understanding and raise awareness of
governance reforms.

                         II.    RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

2.     During 2005, the Interim Government implemented a prudent macroeconomic
policy that helped to stabilize the Haitian economy. The continued maintenance of a
sound macroeconomic framework beyond the April-September 2004 IMF Staff
Monitored Program period and up to now allowed the authorities to secure a one year
(October 2004-September 2005) IMF-supported Emergency Post Conflict Assistance
(EPCA I with US$15.6 million BOP support), and a second EPCA (October 2005-
September 2006) also with US$15 million BOP support. In addition, the Government
mobilized significant budget support and concessional assistance from donors, including
the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United States, the
European Union (EU) and Canada.

3.     Considerable improvement in macroeconomic performance was achieved in 2004
and in the first half of 2005. Real GDP growth is estimated at 1.5 percent for FY04-05
(October-September), up from -3.8 percent in FY03-04. Average inflation was reduced
despite the high prices of petroleum products on the international market (FY04-05
average Consumer Price Index was 17 percent, down from 27 percent in FY03-04).
However, the deterioration in the security situation later in 2005 as well as high oil prices
and slower than anticipated donor disbursements worsened the macroeconomic outlook
in the second half of 2005. In particular, the increase in violent incidents over the
summer and afterwards reduced confidence and led to capital outflows and a drop in
private remittances and visitors. As a result, following several months of stability, the
gourde depreciated by about 10 percent during May-September 2005. In real effective
terms, however, the gourde remained 19 percent above the March 2004 level. The
external current account is estimated at 0.5 percent of GDP for FY04-05 despite pressures
stemming from higher oil prices for Haiti's fuel imports and capital outflows. Aided by
disbursements of budgetary assistance, net international reserves rebounded to about
US$68 million by mid-September 2005.

4.     The authorities also pursued prudent fiscal policies, with their main objective
being to reduce Central Bank financing to the government budget. Despite the difficult



                                             1

security situation and strikes by custom officials, revenues were 9.9 percent of GDP in
FY04-05, up from 8.9 percent in FY03-04. Current expenditures were contained at 9.9
percent of GDP and capital expenditure at 4.5 percent. As a result, the overall fiscal
deficit (excluding grants) was 4.5 percent of GDP, lower than the programmed 6.2
percent under EPCA I. With a tighter fiscal stance, the use of Central Bank financing of
the fiscal deficit was practically eliminated. Also, public sector debt as a share of GDP
declined from 44 percent at end-2003 to 37 percent at end-2004 and an estimated 33
percent at end-2005.

5.      Against the backdrop of lagging economic recovery, lower-than-anticipated donor
disbursements, and persistent security concerns, the Government, seeking to address the
country's critical needs, released in June 2005 a supplementary budget that envisaged an
increase and re-prioritization of expenditures during June­September 2005. However, in
view of weak revenue performance and the absence of additional external financing, the
Government moved expeditiously to implement a set of budget adjustments, including
reductions in capital expenditures in order to reduce the fiscal deficit to a level consistent
with its commitment to avoid central bank financing.

6.      The 2005/06 budget approved on September 30, 2005 is consistent with the IMF-
supported EPCA program. While the first half of the fiscal year is fully financed, the
financing gap for the second half of the fiscal year (April­September 2006) is expected to
be financed by increased donor funding, following the February elections. Preliminary
data for FY05-06 indicate that macroeconomic indicators have proved resilient to the
challenging political and security situation: inflation, exchange rate and net international
reserves developments have been broadly on track. Central Government revenues and
expenditures also remained broadly in line with the budget during October 2005-
February 2006.

                III. PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING THE REFORM PROGRAM

7.      The Government's program of economic governance reforms to increase
transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources and external assistance has
been implemented satisfactorily. The activities supported under the EGRO components
are assessed in the following paragraphs. Implementation of the conditions pertaining to
the release of the floating tranche of the EGRO is discussed in the following section.

8.      Improvement of budgetary processes. The Government was able to restore
basic budgetary processes through: (1) timely preparation and adoption of the annual
budget; (2) better alignment of budget allocations with poverty reduction and economic
recovery priorities; (3) better budget execution monitoring which resulted, inter alia, in
the significant reduction of the use of discretionary accounts; and (4) more transparency
in the budget preparation and execution through public dissemination of budget
allocations and expenditures.

9.      Following several years of lack of budgets or budgets being approved with delays,
the FY2004-05 and FY2005-06 budgets were approved on time before the beginning of



                                             2

the fiscal year on October 1. These budgets incorporated key objectives of the Interim
Cooperation Framework, particularly those relating to the economic governance program
and the objectives of the macroeconomic stabilization program. Civil society and donors
were consulted during budget preparation.           The approved budgets have been
disseminated publicly (by posting them on the Ministry of Economy and Finance's web
site, and through newspaper articles, the official gazette and leaflets). Execution of the
budgets has been broadly satisfactory, and key budget execution data have been widely
disseminated.

10.      As detailed below, strong efforts made by the Government to reduce drastically
and regulate stringently the use of public agencies' discretionary accounts have resulted
in a better budget execution monitoring.       This has led, inter alia, to a significant
reduction of the use of discretionary accounts and improved transparency in the use of
public resources. Also, the strengthening of the CSCCA through the adoption of a decree
will enhance the oversight of the use of public resources. The Government accounts are
now being audited more regularly by the CSCCA following acceptable auditing
standards. The Government is also reviewing its accounting system with a view to
improve the quality of financial information.

11.      Improvement of public procurement processes. In early 2005, the Government
adopted a new Procurement Decree to establish the Interim National Commission for
Public Procurement (CNIMP), re-affirm the use of competitive procurement methods as
the norm and introduce other good practices in public procurement. The creation of the
CNIMP, which is now operational, has strengthened the institutional framework for
procurement and is helping to introduce more effective procurement controls in the
public administration. The recent hiring of an international procurement consulting firm
will allow the CNIMP to perform an extended range of its mandated functions, in
particular those associated with strengthening procurement capacity in line ministries.
Finally, clear advances in transparency have been achieved through the publication of
lists of government contracts awarded and a supplier database, both available through the
CNIMP website.

12.      Stepping up of anti-corruption efforts. The EGRO supported the creation and
staffing of an Anti-Corruption Unit (ULCC) as an autonomous entity under the Ministry
of Economy and Finance and its efforts to develop and implement a strategy to improve
governance and fight corruption in the public sector. As part of this, the Unit has
conducted a detailed comprehensive diagnostic survey (households, public, private and
the NGO sectors) on the state of governance and the perception of corruption in Haiti as
an input to designing a multi-sectoral governance program. A Steering Committee was
established with twenty representatives from civil society and Government to follow up
on this effort. The Committee is expected to play a major role in the dissemination of the
survey results and contribute in the elaboration of the governance program. The Anti-
Corruption Unit is also developing a staff training plan that focuses on international best
practices, and lessons learned from the successful and less successful efforts around the
globe.




                                            3

13.     Improving efficiency and transparency in the management of public
enterprises and the Road Maintenance Fund. As part of its efforts to improve the
management and transparency of key public enterprises, and with the support of the
World Bank Group (IDA and IFC), the IDB, Canada and the EC, the Government hired
international audit firms on a competitive basis to undertake financial audits for the
national port authority (APN), the telecommunications utility (TELECO) and the national
electricity company (EDH). The Government is also close to completing the selection of
international firms for the financial audit, administrative audit and technical review of the
metropolitan water authority (CAMEP) (details for specific enterprises are provided
below). It should be noted that the Government made an extraordinary effort to solicit
the interest of international audit firms to bid for these contracts given the country's
difficult security environment of recent months--a demonstration of its commitment to
pursue its governance efforts in this area.

14.     The Government also undertook a comprehensive accounting rehabilitation of
TELECO, together with a major management overhaul of the company, with the aim of
straightening the finances of the company and eliminating non transparent practices of
the past. Within the broader telecommunications sector perspective, the Government has
recently concluded a sector-wide review and is finalizing the preparation of a
comprehensive action plan aimed at improving the sector performance, as a whole. A
newly licensed mobile private operator recently started operating and is in the last stages
of negotiating an IFC investment.

15.     Furthermore, in October 2005 the Government and EDH committed themselves to
a series of measures to strengthen the governance and increase the efficiency and
transparency of the investment in the electricity sector, in a Memorandum of
Understanding signed in Brussels with most donors involved in the sector. The MoU
also included the commitment of the donors to financing key investments and technical
assistance to allow for an effective response to the difficult challenges in the sector.

16.     Regarding the Road Maintenance Fund (FER), the Government has been taking a
number of measures to strengthen this institution whose ultimate objective is to become
the corner stone of the road maintenance strategy in Haiti: members of the FER Board
were appointed, the list of roads whose maintenance will be financed by FER was
published and FER has reached basic institutional capacity with the recruiting of key staff
and the definition of its operational procedures. Also, the first road maintenance contract
to be financed by FER was awarded and the contract was signed in early 2006. The
preparation of this first maintenance contract has been a useful "learning-by-doing"
process for the three key actors involved in road maintenance: (1) the FER; (2) the
Ministry of Economy and Finance; and (3) the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications. As of March 2006, other routine maintenance contracts to be financed
by FER were under preparation with the financial support of the EU. While the FER
remains a new institution with limited implementing capacity, the Government is now
aware of the critical importance of road maintenance and of the role that FER can play in
this regard. A Bank-supported Transport and Territorial Development project, about to be




                                              4

presented to the Board of IDA is expected to build on and further the progress that has
been achieved in this area.

17.     Civil society monitoring mechanism and public communication. The EGRO
supported the creation of a mechanism for civil society to monitor the Government's
program of economic governance reforms. The creation of such a mechanism required
significant capacity building on both the Government and civil society organizations side
due to the novelty of such an approach in Haiti, and thus encountered some initial delays.
However, as a result of important efforts from all parties involved, the civil society
monitoring mechanism is now operational and monitoring reports have been prepared on
progress made in the implementation of governance reforms. It is expected that as the
mechanism further develops and strengthens, regular reports will continue to be produced
and disseminated, the relevant organizations will develop expertise in monitoring, and the
Government and donors will effectively use the information and recommendations
contained in these reports to fine tune policies.

18.     The EGRO also supported Government efforts to increase understanding and raise
awareness of governance reforms. In addition to the communication activities mentioned
in the respective components, the Ministry of Economy and Finance appointed a civil
society and communication coordinator, and prepared a draft communication strategy and
a LICUS grant proposal to finance its implementation; the Minister of Economy and
Finance held press briefings and interviews to raise awareness about the reform program;
and the Ministry's website is now updated more regularly and its users have increased in
numbers.

                 IV. PROGRESS AGAINST TRANCHE RELEASE CRITERIA

19.     The conditions of release referred to in Schedule 2 of both the Development
Credit Agreement and Development Grant Agreement between the Borrower and IDA
dated January 06, 2005 (DCA and DGA) state that for the release of the second (floating)
tranche the following conditions must be fulfilled:

"The macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is satisfactory"

20.     The Borrower has met this condition. Despite the deteriorating security situation
and the resulting difficulties in collecting revenues, the Government's macroeconomic
management and the implementation of the first EPCA have been satisfactory and a
second EPCA was endorsed by the IMF Board in October 2005.                 Details on the
Government's macro-economic performance are provided in paras. 4-8 above.

"(a) The execution of the Borrower's fiscal year 2004-05 budget has been in accordance
with its objectives and the allocations of the approved budget; and (b) key data regarding
such execution has been disseminated to the local media."

21.     The Borrower has met this condition.          The FY2004-05 budget has been
implemented broadly consistently with its objectives and approved allocations.         As



                                              5

indicated in para. 7, in June 2005 the Government released a supplementary budget for
June­September 2005. The expenditure allocations for key sectors needed to meet the
EGRO-supported reform objectives were maintained in the supplementary budget. In
addition, the FY2005-06 budget which was approved by the Cabinet on September 30,
2005, and its implementation as of end-January 2006 were broadly consistent with the
EGRO-supported reform objectives.        The website of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance has been re-activated and budget execution data have been published on the site
and in local newspapers.

"No more than 10 percent of the Borrower's cumulative non-salary current public
expenditures since beginning of its fiscal year 2004-05 has been disbursed through
Comptes Courants."

22.     The Borrower has met this condition.        The authorities were able to reduce
significantly the percentage of cumulative non-salary current public expenditures
disbursed through comptes courants (i.e. Ministries' own accounts where in the past
budgetary resources were channeled and used non-transparently for discretionary
expenditures at the spending agency level) from 62 percent during October 2003-March
2004 to less than 10 percent during FY04-05 and the period October 2005-January 2006
(for which the latest budget execution data is available). This was achieved through strict
control to increase compliance with the procedures defined by the Ministry of Economy
and Finance for the use of discretionary accounts under specific conditions.

"The Borrower has enacted and published in the official gazette a decree, satisfactory to
the Association, modifying the organization and functioning of the CSCCA (the Supreme
Audit Institution)."

23.     The Borrower has met this condition. The Decree was adopted by the Council of
Ministers on March 9, 2006, and published on March 14, 2006. The decree modifies the
1983 decree on the organization and functioning of the CSCCA, consistent with the new
Loi Organique. It clarifies the role of the CSCCA, focusing it on ex-ante controls. Also,
it adapts its organizational structure in order to discharge efficiently its new mandate,
which will contribute to strengthening the oversight of the use of public resources.

"The Borrower has: (a) completed the competitive recruitment of the members of CNIMP
(National Interim Commission for Public Procurement); (b) hired international
procurement consultants; (c) adopted standard bidding documents; (d) disseminated via
Internet and/or local newspapers the results of all bids tendered since December 2004;
and (e) created a database of Government suppliers available to the public through
CNIMP."

24.     The Borrower has met this condition. All five members of the CNIMP have been
selected and started work.      In February 2006, the CNIMP hired an international
procurement firm through a competitive selection process to provide technical assistance
for the procurement reform effort. Also, standard bidding documents for works were
prepared by the CNIMP and adopted through a communication signed by the Prime



                                             6

Minister requiring all public sector entities to apply them. Lists of contracts issued since
December 2004 by Government agencies have been published in local papers and posted
in the Ministry of Economy and Finance website. A database of Government suppliers
has been prepared by a local consultant and posted on the CNIMP web site.

"The Borrower has completed: (a) data collection from a survey on corruption practices;
and (b) the first draft report on said survey."

25.    The Borrower has met this condition.          The survey was completed at end-
December 2005.       A preliminary paper on corruption perception using all available
information, including the report on the pilot survey and previous surveys by other
national and international institutions, was prepared and submitted by the Minister of
Finance to IDA on December 12, 2005.

"FER (the Road Maintenance Fund) has awarded and published its first road
maintenance contract since its creation."

26.    The Borrower has met this condition.          The first road maintenance contract
financed by the FER was awarded on January 13, 2006 following a competitive bidding
process and was published on the Ministry of Economy and Finance and FER websites.
Since late 2005, the Ministry of Economy and Finance also started transferring to the
FER budgetary resources for road maintenance. The road segment chosen for this first
road maintenance contract under the FER is a 43 km paved road from Carrefour Dufort to
Jacmel (one of the key road assets for Haiti). This road had been rehabilitated in the early
1980s and a periodic maintenance was becoming necessary (last year, one section of the
road collapsed and an emergency intervention was performed).           The award of this
contract has launched the operations of the FER and has provided valuable lessons for the
contracting of road maintenance activities in the Haitian context, notably with respect to
the objectives of: (1) designing procurement processes customized to Haiti's limited
implementation capacity; (2) designing proper coordination between FER, the Ministry
of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
and the CNIMP with regard to road maintenance; and (3) planning adequately for road
maintenance activities, taking into account technical alternatives, their costs and their
consequences for the life cycle of road assets.

"The Government has undertaken the following actions for at least three of the five
public enterprises included in the economic governance program:

    · CAMEP (Metropolitan Water Authority): (a) international audit firm has been
       selected to carry a financial audit; and (b) international technical review firm has
       been selected to carry out a management and technical audit.

    · AAN (National Airport Authority) and APN (National Port Authority): (a)
       international audit firms have been selected to carry out a financial audit; and (b)
       financial audits of APN and AAN have been initiated.




                                              7

    · EDH (National Electricity Company): (a) accounting rehabilitation of EDH is
        ongoing and has progressed satisfactorily; (b) international audit firm has been
        selected to carry out a financial audit; and (c) bidding process to recruit an
        international firm to carry out an assessment of environmental liabilities has been
        started.

    · TELECO (Telecommunications Company): (a) international firm has been
        selected to carry out financial audit; and (b) the Borrower has selected on option
        for restructuring the telecommunications sector based on, inter alia, the results of
        a sector-wide review."

27.     The Borrower has met this condition. Following a competitive bidding process,
the Government selected an international audit firm to conduct the financial audit of
APN, the contract was signed on November 14, 2005, and the financial audit is currently
ongoing. The audit is financed by a LICUS Economic Governance Trust Fund.

28.     For EDH: (a) The account rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily with the
preparation of financial statements as of Sept. 30, 2005.        In addition, the EDH is
completing the evaluation of bids for the inventory and valuation of its technical assets.
Both the account rehabilitation and the inventory and valuation of EDH's technical assets
are financed by the European Union. (b) Following a competitive bidding process, an
international audit firm was selected on February 23, 2006, to conduct the financial audit
of EDH and a contract is in the process of being signed. The audit is financed by Canada.
(c) On July 20, 2005, the Government authorized the launching of call for bids to recruit
an international firm to undertake an assessment of environmental liabilities to pave the
way for a Management Contract for EDH. This assessment is financed by a PPIAF grant
managed by the World Bank.

29.     Following a competitive bidding process, the Government selected an
international audit firm on February 2, 2006 to conduct the financial audit of TELECO.
The audit is financed by the Haitian Government (through the Haitian Central Bank and
TELECO). Also, the Government prepared a Letter of Telecom Sector Policy that was
signed by the Prime Minister and transmitted to the World Bank on November 9, 2005.
The document outlines the current situation of the telecommunications sector in Haiti, as
a bottleneck for the country's economic development and competitiveness, and identifies
a number of policy reform and investment objectives to meet the challenges of the new
millennium. Among others, the letter outlines the Government's plans for a more
conducive regulatory and institutional framework to promote further private investment
in the sector, a public universal access financing mechanism to ensure remote and rural
locations are connected and can effectively participate in the economy, and the
transformation of the national operator TELECO into an efficient enterprise, possibly
including its future privatization. The letter concludes by requesting the support of the
World Bank and other donors in this endeavor.

30.     As indicated in para. 15, the Government is also close to completing the selection
of international firms for the financial audit, administrative audit and technical review of



                                              8

the metropolitan water authority (CAMEP).          In this respect, the Government has
performed beyond what was requested under the EGRO tranche release criteria.

31.     The Government was not able to proceed with the financial audit of AAN because
of lack of available donor funding. It has reconfirmed its commitment to proceed with
the audit as soon as financing is secured.

"The Borrower has (a) provided on a timely basis all necessary information to civil
society organizations in charge of monitoring selected modules of the Borrower's
economic governance program; and (b) held monthly discussions with the Executive
Secretariat and said civil society organizations on the results of said monitoring
activities."

32.     The Borrower has met this condition. In April 2005, a workshop was held in
Port-au-Prince attended by civil society organizations and relevant government entities to
jointly define the monitoring framework and indicators. In June 2005, a Consultative
Committee was established consisting of twelve reputable members of eight sectors of
civil society, including the private sector, academia, grassroots and women organizations,
and the churches. In November 2005, the Consultative Committee competitively hired a
Haitian think tank (ECOSOF) as its Executive Secretariat.          All (five) civil society
organizations were also competitively hired to monitor the five components of the
economic governance program. The Consultative Committee has been meeting on a
regular basis with representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance to discuss
progress made in the setting up of the monitoring mechanism.            The first monthly
discussion of monitoring results by the Executive Secretariat and civil society
organizations was held on February 16, 2006, and by the Government, the Consultative
Committee and Executive Secretariat was held on March 2, 2006. The summary of the
civil society organizations' monitoring reports has been published on the Ministry of
Economy and Finance website.

                        IV. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION

33.     In view of Haiti's overall performance and progress with the implementation of
the program supported by the Credit and Grant and its compliance with the specific
conditions of release referred in Schedule 2 of the DCA and DGA respectively, IDA has
informed the Borrower of the availability of the second (floating) tranche of SDR10
million (of which SDR6 million in the form of credit and SDR4 million in the form of
grant).




                                               9

