Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H142-0-HA 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Economic Governance Reform Structural Adjustment Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H142-0-HA 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 6, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Recipient a letter dated 
December 6, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Recipient's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Recipient has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards financing the Program and, by the Development Credit 
Agreement of the same date herewith between the Recipient and the Association (the 
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty four million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR24,300,000) (the Credit);  
 
(C) 
the Recipient and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the grant provided for in this Development Grant Agreement be disbursed 
on account of expenditures for the Program before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Credit are made; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant in 
two (2) tranches as hereinafter provided; and 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Grant Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“AAN” means 
Autorité Aéroportuaire Nationale
,
the Recipient’s Airport 
Authority; 
 
(b) “APN” 
means 
Autorité Portuaire Nationale
,
the Recipient’s Port Authority; 
 
(c) “CAMEP” 
means 
Centrale Autonome Métropolitaine d’Eau Potable
,
the 
Recipient’s Urban Water Company; 
 
(d) “CNIMP” 
means 
Commission Nationale Intérimaire des Marchés Publics
,
the 
Recipient’s Interim National Procurement Board; 
 
(e) “
Comptes Courants
”
means the Recipient’s discretionary accounts used for 
channeling disbursements from the Recipient’s central budget to its public spending agencies’ 
own accounts; 
 
(f) “CSCCA” 
means 
Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif
,
the Recipient’s Supreme Audit Institution; 
 
(g) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(h) “EDH” 
means 
Electricité d’Haiti
,
the Recipient
’s Electricity Company; 
 
(i) 
“Executive Secretariat” means an independent entity selected by the Recipient 
for the purposes of hiring civil society organizations in charge of monitoring the Recipient’s 
economic governance program and disseminating their work; 
 
(j) “FER” 
means 
Fonds d’Entretien Routier
,
the Recipient’s Road Maintenance 
Fund; and 
 
(k) “TELECO” 
means 
Telecommunications d’Haiti
,
S.A.M.
,
the Recipient’s Public 
Telecommunications Company. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR16,400,000). 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the Grant Account in 
support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in U.S Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Grant shall have been used 
to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association; (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be Granted to the Grant Account for 
cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
twelve million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR12,400,000), unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in the carrying out of the 
Program;  
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
satisfactory; and  
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
taken. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association may 
give notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Recipient 
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, as the 
case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn amount 
of the Grant or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Page  5
-
4
-
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the 
actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the last disbursement from the Deposit Account has been made, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date April 6, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient is designated as the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
Page  7
-
6
-
For the Recipient: 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(509) 299-1732 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By  /s/ Raymond Joseph 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Pamela Cox 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Recipient; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another Grant or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  10
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the Recipient is 
a
party;  
 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of 
the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
1. (a) 
The execution of the Recipient’s fiscal year 2004-05 budget has been in 
accordance with its  objectives and the allocations of the approved budget; and (b) key data 
regarding such execution has been disseminated to the local media. 
 
2. 
No more than 10% of the Recipient’s cumulative non-salary current public 
expenditures since beginning of its fiscal year 2004-05 has been disbursed through 
Comptes Courants
.
3. 
The Recipient has enacted and published in the official gazette a decree, 
satisfactory to the Association,  modifying the organization and functioning of CSCCA. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has: (a) completed the competitive recruitment of CNIMP’s 
members; (b) hired international procurement consultants; (c) adopted standard bidding 
documents; (d) disseminated via internet and/or  local newspapers the results of all bids 
tendered since December 2004; and (e) created a database of government suppliers 
available to the public through CNIMP. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has completed: (a) data collection from a survey on corruption 
practices; and (b) the first draft report on said survey. 
 
6. 
FER has awarded and published its first road maintenance contract since its 
creation. 
 
7. 
In at least three of the following Recipient’s public enterprises the following 
actions have been taken: 
 
CAMEP: (a) international audit firm has been selected to carry out a 
financial audit; and (b) international technical review firm has been selected to 
carry out a  management and technical audit. 
 
AAN and APN: (a) international audit firms have been selected to carry 
out a financial audit; and (b) financial audits of APN and AAN have been 
initiated. 
 
EDH: (a) accounting rehabilitation of EDH is ongoing and has progressed 
satisfactorily; (b)  international audit firm has been selected to carry out a 
Page  12
-
11
-
financial audit; and (c) bidding process to recruit an international firm to carry out 
an assessment of environmental liabilities has been started. 
 
TELECO: (a) international firm has been selected to carry out financial 
audit; and (b) the Recipient has selected an option for restructuring the 
telecommunications sector based on, inter alia, the results of a sector-wide review. 
 
8. 
The Recipient has: (a) provided on a timely basis all necessary information to civil 
society organizations in charge of monitoring selected modules of the Recipient’s economic 
governance program; and (b) held monthly discussions with the Executive Secretariat and 
said civil society organizations on the results of said monitoring activities. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3  
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General 
Conditions are modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in 
their entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions 
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
 
4. 
 Article II is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 3, is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant 
Agreement to which the Grant is made.” 
 
(b) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant is made.”; 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; 
Partial Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to 
read “Partial Payment”. 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid 
under the Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Grant Agreement.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it 
under the Development Grant Agreement in the currency 
specified in such agreement or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(c) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(d) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(e) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any 
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
Page  15
-
14
-
7. 
Article V is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Grant 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(b) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”. 
 
9. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free 
from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
10. 
Article IX is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant.”; and 
 
(b) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 
 
11. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall terminate 
on the date 20 years after the dat
e
of the Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
WB77786 
M:\HAITI\Econmic Governance Reform Credit\Adjustment Grant - December 3, 2004.doc 
December 9, 2004 10:25 AM
 
