Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4029-HA 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Economic Governance Reform Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4029-HA 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 6, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
December 6, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards financing the Program and, by the Development Grant 
Agreement of the same date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the 
Development Grant Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in 
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to sixteen million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR16,400,000) (the Grant);  
 
(C) 
the Recipient and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant provided for in the Development Grant Agreement be disbursed 
on account of expenditures for the Program before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Credit are made; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in 
two (2) tranches as hereinafter provided; and 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), 
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions 
of the Development Credit Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) “AAN” 
means 
Autorité Aéroportuaire Nationale
,
the Borrower’s Airport 
Authority; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“APN” means 
Autorité Portuaire Nationale
,
the Bo
rrower’s Port 
Authority; 
 
(c) “CAMEP” 
means 
Centrale Autonome Métropolitaine d’Eau Potable
,
the 
Borrower’s Urban Water Company; 
 
(d) “CNIMP” 
means 
Commission Nationale Intérimaire des Marchés Publics
,
the Borrower’s Interim National Procurement Board; 
 
(e) “
Comptes Courants
”
means the Borrower’s discretionary accounts used 
for channeling disbursements from the Borrower’s central budget to its public spending 
agencies’ own accounts; 
 
(f) “CSCCA” 
means 
Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux 
Administratif
,
the Borrower’s Supreme Audit Institution; 
 
(g) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(h) “EDH” 
means 
Electricité d’Haiti
,
the Borrower’s Electricity Company; 
 
(i) 
“Executive Secretariat” means an independent entity selected by the 
Borrower for the purposes of hiring civil society organizations in charge of monitoring the 
Borrower’s economic governance program and disseminating their work; 
 
(j) “FER” 
means 
Fonds d’Entretien Routier
,
the Borrower’s Road 
Maintenance Fund; and 
 
(k) “TELECO” 
means 
Telecommunications d’Haiti
,
S.A.M.
,
the Borrower’s 
Public Telecommunications Company.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty four million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR24,300,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, 
a
deposit account in U.S Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of eighteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR18,300,000), unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;  
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and  
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and 
(iii) above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel 
the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by 
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as 
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing on May 15, 
2015 and ending on November 15, 2044. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on November 15, 2044 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the 
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
Page  8
-
7
-
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the last disbursement from the Deposit Account has been 
made, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date  April 6, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(509) 299-1732 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By  /s/ Raymond Joseph 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Pamela Cox 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
go
ldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
1. (a) 
The execution of the Borrower’s fiscal year 2004-05 budget has been in 
accordance with its  objectives and the allocations of the approved budget; and (b) key data 
regarding such execution has been disseminated to the local media. 
 
2. 
No more than 10% of the Borrower’s cumulative non-salary current public 
expenditures since beginning of its fiscal year 2004-05 has been disbursed through 
Comptes Courants
.
3. 
The Borrower has enacted and published in the official gazette a decree, 
satisfactory to the Association,  modifying the organization and functioning of CSCCA. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has: (a) completed the competitive recruitment of CNIMP’s 
members; (b) hired international procurement consultants; (c) adopted standard bidding 
documents; (d) disseminated via internet and/or  local newspapers the results of all bids 
tendered since December 2004; and (e) created a database of government suppliers 
available to the public through CNIMP. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has completed: (a) data collection from a survey on corruption 
practices; and (b) the first draft report on said survey. 
 
6. 
FER has awarded and published its first road maintenance contract since its 
creation. 
 
7. 
In at least three of the following Borrower’s public enterprises the following 
actions have been taken: 
 
CAMEP: (a) international audit firm has been selected to carry out a 
financial audit; and (b) international technical review firm has been selected to 
carry out a  management and technical audit. 
 
AAN and APN: (a) international audit firms have been selected to carry 
out a financial audit; and (b) financial audits of APN and AAN have been 
initiated. 
 
EDH: (a) accounting rehabilitation of EDH is ongoing and has progressed 
satisfactorily; (b)  international audit firm has been selected to carry out a 
financial audit; and (c) bidding process to recruit an international firm to carry out 
an assessment of environmental liabilities has been started. 
Page  14
-
13
-
TELECO: (a) international firm has been selected to carry out financial 
audit; and (b) the Borrower has selected an option for restructuring the 
telecommunications sector based on, inter alia, the results of a sector-wide review. 
 
8. 
The Borrower has: (a) provided on a timely basis all necessary information to civil 
society organizations in charge of monitoring selected modules of the Borrower’s economic 
governance program; and (b) held monthly discussions with the Executive Secretariat and 
said civil society organizations on the results of said monitoring activities. 
Page  15
-
14
-
WB77786 
M:\HAITI\Econmic Governance Reform Credit\Revised Adjustment Credit - December 3, 2004.doc 
December 8, 2004 5:23 PM
 
