                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                             Report No:ICR000094




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          ( IDA-40290HA and IDA-H1420HA )

                                          ON

                   AN ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SDR24.3 MILLION)

                                         AND

                   AN ADJUSTMENT GRANT(SDR 16.4 MILLION)

                                          TO

                              THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                          FOR

               AN ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORM OPERATION


                                     OCT 25, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department (LCSPR
Caribbean Country Management Unit (LCC3C)
Latin America and Caribbean Region (LCR)

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         ( Exchange Rate Effective 09/28/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = HG$
                                 HG$ 1.00 = US$ 0.026
                                 US$ 1.00 = HG$ 38.1


                                      Fiscal Year
                                October 1-September 30




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAN    National Airport Authority
AAP    Assessment and Action Plan
APN    National Port Authority
CAMEP Metropolitan Water Authority
CNMP   National Procurement Commission
CSCCA Supreme Audit Institution
CSO    Civil Society Organization
EDH    National Electricity company
EGRO   Economic Governance Reform Operation
EGTAG Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant
EPCA   Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
EU     European Union
FER    Road Maintenance fund
FY     Fiscal Year
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
HIPC   Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
I-PRSP Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ICF    Interim Cooperation Framework
IDA    International Development Association
IDB    Inter-American Development Bank
IMF    International Monetary Fund
MEF    Ministry of Economy and Finance
NEPO   National Education Partnership Office
NFO    National Partnership Fund
NGO    Non- Governmental Organization
PIP    Public Investment Program
PRGF   Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SMP    Staff Monitored Program
TELECO Telecommunications Utility

TSS  Transitional Support Strategy
ULCC Anti-Corruption Unit




                        Vice President: Pamela Cox

                     Country Director: Caroline D. Anstey

                      Sector Manager: Mauricio Carrizosa

                 Program Team Leader: Antonella Bassani

                                                       Haiti
                   Haiti Economic Governance Reform Operation




                                                CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Rating Summary ......................................................................................................... 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 22
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 25
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 26
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 27
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 32
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 33
Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 35
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 36
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/ Stakeholders...................... 38
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
Annex 9. Additonal Annexes........................................................................................ 40
9.1 Table A1. Haiti Economic Governance Reforms Supported by EGRO, 2004-05.. 40
9.2 Table A2. Haiti Economic Governance Reforms Supported by EGRO, 2004-05.. 54

1. Basic Information
                                                                   Haiti Economic
Country:             Haiti                  Program Name:         Governance Reform
                                                                  Operation
                                                                   IDA-40290,IDA-
Program ID:          P089873                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                  H1420
ICR Date:             10/31/2006            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:  SAL                    Borrower:
                                                                  HAITI
Original Total
                     XDR 40.7M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 40.7M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies


Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process           Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                            Date(s)
Concept Review: 08/19/2004         Effectiveness:     01/10/2005       01/10/2005
Appraisal:       11/10/2004        Restructuring(s):
Approval:        01/06/2005        Mid-term Review:
                                   Closing:           12/31/2005       03/31/2006


3. Rating Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Satisfactory
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Satisfactory

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance         Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)       Rating:
Potential Prob. Program at any
                                  No             Quality at Entry (QEA):        None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Program at any time
                                  No             Quality of Supervision (QSA):  None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before
                                  Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                     75               75
Telecommunications                                                        4                4
Power                                                                     5                5
General transportation sector                                            12               12
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                     4                4
                                                           Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Macroeconomic management                                    Primary          Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                            Primary          Primary
procurement
Other accountability/anti-corruption                        Secondary        Secondary
Other public sector governance                              Primary          Primary
Other human development                                     Secondary        Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                               At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                           Pamela Cox        Pamela Cox
                                                          Caroline D.       Caroline D.
Country Director:
                                                          Anstey            Anstey
                                                          Mauricio          Mauricio
Sector Manager:
                                                          Carrizosa         Carrizosa
                                                                            Auguste Tano
Program Team Leader:                                      Antonella Bassani
                                                                            Kouame
ICR Team Leader:                                          Antonella Bassani
                                                          Clara Ana
ICR Primary Author:
                                                          Coutinho Sousa

6. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)


Haiti is the poorest country in the Latin America and Caribbean region and among the poorest in the
world. The impact of prolonged political conflict and violence, poor economic governance, cycles of
high external assistance followed by withdrawal of economic support, and natural disasters has been
severe. Real income per capita has declined on average by 2 percent annually over the past twenty years.
Also, Haiti's pattern of socio-economic development has been characterized by marked inequalities in
access to productive assets and public services, which, together with low growth, has resulted in
widespread poverty.

Following the resignation on February 29, 2004 of President Jean Bertrand Aristide, a Transitional
Government was created with a mandate to hold free and fair elections and hand over power to a new
government in early 2006. Faced with the formidable challenges of deep-seated political instability and
violence, weak institutions, and inefficient resource allocation and use, the Transitional Government
requested international support for its Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF) presented at an international
donors conference that took place in Washington in July 2004. In the ICF, the Government identified
priority interventions and associated financing needs to support Haiti's path to economic, social and
political recovery during the July 2004-September 2006 transition period. The ICF was based on four
pillars: (i) strengthening political governance and promoting national dialogue; (ii) strengthening
economic governance and contributing to institutional development; (iii) promoting economic recovery;
and (iv) improving access to basic services. IDA played a key supporting role to the Government, along
with other donors, in the preparation of both the ICF and the donors conference. The donor conference
generated US$1.08 billion in new pledges for Haiti for 2004-06, including an exceptional IDA allocation
of US$150 million.

Weaknesses in economic governance represent one of the most serious obstacles to economic growth and
poverty reduction in Haiti. In the area of economic governance, the Transitional Government identified
in the ICF an ambitious program of reforms focused on the following critical areas: (i) budget
formulation, execution and reporting; (ii) ex-ante and ex-post financial controls; (iii) public procurement;
(iv) strengthening of human resources for policy formulation and program implementation; and (v) public
enterprise management. A sixth area of interventions highlighted anti-corruption efforts and the
strengthening of capacity to monitor reform progress and public sector outputs.

The Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO) supported critical economic governance reforms
identified by the Government in the ICF. The operation was a key component of IDA's program of re-
engagement in Haiti as described in the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for FY05-06 discussed by
the Board in January 2005. In support of the ICF, the strategy was designed to support interventions to
deliver hope to the Haitian population and restore credibility in public institutions by helping the
Government deliver quick wins in the provision of basic services and job creation and launch reforms that
promote longer-term economic governance and institutional development.

6.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The Economic Governance Reform Operations (EGRO) in the amount of SDR 40.7 million (US$61
million equivalent) supported the Government's implementation of critical economic governance reforms
to increase transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources and external assistance. The key
objectives were: (a) improvement of budgetary processes and financial controls; (b) strengthening of
public procurement processes; (c) stepping up of anti-corruption efforts; (d) improving efficiency and
transparency in the management of public enterprises and the Road Maintenance Fund; and (e) creating a
mechanism for civil society to monitor economic governance reforms and supporting Government
communications efforts to increase public understanding and raise awareness of governance reforms.

The preparation of the EGRO was carefully coordinated with the IMF, IDB and other donors. It was
underpinned by the analysis of economic governance weaknesses contained in the Government's
Economic Governance Strategic Group Sectoral Report (background paper for the ICF prepared by an
inter-ministerial team supported by donors, including World Bank staff, in April-June 2004), as well
as analytical work undertaken by IDA, IMF, IDB and other donors and institutions. Technical assistance
for the implementation of the economic governance reforms supported by the EGRO was provided by
IDA through a LICUS grant that was approved in September 2004 (US$1.5 million) and an Economic
Governance Technical Assistance IDA grant (US$2 million) approved in May 2005.

The EGRO consisted of a credit of SDR 24.3 million (US$ 36.5 million equivalent) and a grant of SDR
16.4 million (US$ 24.5 million equivalent). The operation was disbursed in two tranches. The first
tranche, of US$46 million equivalent (of which US$27.5 million equivalent in the form of credit and
US$18.5 million equivalent in the form of a grant) was disbursed upon effectiveness in January 2005,
based on actions taken by the Government prior to Board presentation. The second tranche was disbursed
in March 2006, upon completion of the actions agreed with IDA, for an amount of US$15 million
equivalent (of which US$ 9 million equivalent in the form of credit and US$6 million equivalent in the
form of grant). Following the disbursement of the second tranche of the Credit, the government continued
to implement follow-up actions and reforms in areas supported by EGRO.

The Government Letter of Development Policy (Annex 6 to the EGRO Program Document) included a
number of outcome and benchmark indicators to help gauge progress toward achieving the objectives of
the Government s program supported by the EGRO.

6.3 Revised Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators (if applicable, as approved by original
approving authority) and Reasons/Justification


Credit objectives remained unchanged.

6.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)


The EGRO supported reform measures in the following main areas:

a.       Ensuring a sound macroeconomic framework. A key element of the Government s strategy
was the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework through satisfactory implementation of the
macroeconomic stabilization program prepared in consultation with the IMF.           Haiti's macroeconomic
framework after the inauguration of the Transition Government was established under the Fund staff-
monitored program (SMP) covering the period April-September 2004. Over the following two years, the
authorities macroeconomic program was supported by the IMF Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
(EPCA), with disbursements in January and October 2005. The EGRO incorporated the maintenance of
a sound macroeconomic framework as tranche release conditions, as well as the macroeconomic targets
of the Government s macroeconomic stabilization program agreed with the IMF in the context of the
Emergency Post Conflict Assistance as benchmark indicators.

b.      Fiscal management, budget processes and financial control. To strengthen the role of the
budget as an instrument of efficient and transparent management of public expenditures, the
Government s agenda during 2004-06 included measures to ensure: (i) timely formulation and approval of
budgets; (ii) reduction of the resources channeled through the comptes courants held by individual
ministries and increasing transparency in their use; (iii) adequate internal controls; (iv) expansion of the
automated system for budget information and management; and (v) wide dissemination of key budget
execution data. The Government also planned to strengthen the preparation and execution of the public
investment program and design and adopt a framework for a closer monitoring of the poverty content and
impact of public expenditures. The EGRO included the following measures as tranche release
conditions: (i) adoption of the budgets for FY2005 and FY2006, reflecting key objectives of the ICF,
before the start of the fiscal year and regular public dissemination of key budget allocations and execution
information; (ii) a drastic reduction in the use of discretionary spending through ministerial comptes
courants and wide dissemination on their use; and (iii) strengthening the external audit function with a
decree on the organization and functioning of the supreme audit institution, the Cour Superieure des
Comptes et Du Contentieux Administrative (CSCCA).

c.       Public Sector Procurement. Another element of the Government s economic governance reform
agenda was improving transparency and efficiency in the procurement process and laying the foundations
for deeper medium term procurement reforms. The EGRO included the following measures as tranche
release conditions: (i) the adoption of a decree establishing the National Commission for Public
Procurement (CNMP), defining thresholds of procurement contracts to be reviewed by the CNMP and re-
affirming that public bids are the norm; (ii) the competitive recruitment of the CNMP members; (iii) the
adoption of standard bidding documents; (iv) systematic dissemination of the results of tendered bids
since December 2004 and the creation of a database of Government suppliers available to the public; and
(v) the hiring of an international procurement consulting firm to help the CNMP strengthen procurement
capacity in line ministries and lay the ground work for a longer term reform of the public procurement
legislative framework.

d.      Anti-corruption strategy. In line with its objective to improve the use of public resources, the
Government s reform agenda included measures to fight corruption within the public sector. In this area,
the EGRO I included the following measures as tranche release conditions: adoption of a decree
authorizing the creation, for the first time in the country's recent history, of an Anti-Corruption Unit

(ULCC) charged with implementation of the OAS convention on corruption, development and
implementation of a civil service code of ethics, and the design of a national strategy and institutional
framework to fight corruption; the staffing of the ULCC on a competitive basis and the completion of a
draft report on a comprehensive diagnostic survey on corruption practices in Haiti prepared with the
assistance of the World Bank Institute as an input into the preparation of an anti-corruption strategy.

e.       Human resource management. To lay the foundations for the development of a medium-term
civil service reform program, the government planned to introduce an adequate incentive and
accountability system to attract, maintain and motivate civil servants. The EGRO did not include specific
tranche release conditions in this area whose objectives were medium and long-term in nature and where
legislative changes were required for significant civil service reforms (which the Transition Government
could not pursue given the lack of a Parliament). However, EGRO supported the Government efforts to
start designing and implementing an efficient human resource management strategy and institutional
framework to develop institutional capacity as an important element of its broader economic governance
reform agenda and of legislative civil service reform efforts that could be pursued by the recently elected
Government.

f.       Efficiency and transparency in the management of public enterprises and road
maintenance. To increase transparency and accountability in the management of public enterprises, the
Government s economic governance reform agenda included undertaking financial audits and
management reviews for the following key public enterprises: EDH, TELECO, CAMEP, APN and AAN.
Although annual audits for public enterprises were required by law, they had not been systematically
done or had received little follow-up. The objective of the Government was to re-establish a culture of
annual audits in the major public enterprises and to assess ways to improve their organizational and
managerial set up. The EGRO included as tranche release conditions the Government s launching of
financial audits in at least three key public enterprises and the accounting rehabilitation of TELECO and
EDH. The Government reform agenda also outlined measures to implement an efficient and sustainable
mechanism for road maintenance in Haiti. The EGRO included as tranche release conditions measures to
make the road maintenance fund (FER), which was created in 2004, fully operational.

g.       Public-private partnership and governance in the education and health sectors. Another
element of the Government s reform agenda was to improve the governance of the education sector
(where private education accounts for 80 percent of enrollments) by establishing an Office of Public-
Private Partnership (NEPO), developing procedures for the public financing of accredited private schools
and initiating pilot financial transfers to a number of private schools serving poor households. In the
health sector, the Government planned to issue a ministerial decree empowering public health facilities to
sign contracts for provision of health services financed through micro-insurance agencies. The EGRO did
not include specific tranche release conditions on these areas in order to ensure selectivity, although IDA
provided technical and financial support to the Government for the creation of the NEPO and developing
procedures for public financing of accredited schools.

h.       Civil society monitoring and communication around economic governance reforms. In
order to build demand for better governance and accountability and maximize its sustainability, the

EGRO supported the creation of a mechanism for civil society to monitor the implementation of
economic governance reforms. EGRO also supported Government efforts to increase the understanding of
and support by the population for such reforms, including through dissemination of key information on
public expenditure, procurement and key governance reforms.

6.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)


Policy areas remained unchanged.

6.6 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and
funding allocations)


None.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Program Performance
Number of
tranches:

                                Expected           Actual
  Tranche        Amount:      Release Date:        Release     ReleaseFloatingRestructured
                                                    Date:
      1       46,850,000.00     01/07/2005       01/10/2005 Regular No           No
      2       15,000,000.00     02/28/2006       03/15/2005 Regular Yes          No
Tranche Release binding Conditions
  Tranche       Condition                    Text of Condition                    Status:
                              Sound macroeconomic framework maintained as
                             evidenced for example by the successful
      1              2       implementation of the Government                    Met
                             macroeconomic stabilization program supported by
                             the IMF.
                              Budget for FY2004-05 adopted by Council of
                             Ministers before beginning of fiscal year on
                             October 1. Budget should incorporate key
                             objectives as indicated in the four pillars of the
                             Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF), particularly
      1              3       those relating to the economic governance           Met
                             program, and the objectives of the macroeconomic
                             stabilization program. Civil society and donors
                             consulted during budget preparation. Approved
                             budget widely disseminated in the country through
                             the Official Gazette and leaflets.
      1              4        Adoption by Council of Ministers of a decree,      Met

        satisfactory to IDA, for the establishment of the
        CNMP (decree also establishes procedure for
        defining threshold of procurement contracts to be
        reviewed by the CNMP and re-affirms that public
        bids are the norm). Appointment of Coordinator of
        CNMP. Preparation of TORs satisfactory to IDA,
        for members of the CNMP.
        Non-salary current public expenditures disbursed
        through comptes courants not exceeding 15 percent
        for the fourth quarter of FY2003-04 (July-
1    5                                                       Met
        September) and 10 percent for the month of
        September 2004. Information on use of comptes
        courants in past fiscal year widely disseminated.
        Adoption by the Council of Ministers of the
        ministerial decree authorizing the creation of an
        Anti-Corruption Unit as an autonomous entity
        under the Ministry of Economy and Finance;
        finalization of TORs for the Unit; appointment of
        the Unit Director General; and key personnel in
1    6  place. Publication of the Decree in the official     Met
        gazette and dissemination to the public at large for
        example during a press conference. Letter sent to
        the IDA requesting partnership in preparing a
        comprehensive diagnostic survey on corruption
        practices in Haiti; TORs for the survey are agreed
        with IDA.
        Appointment of the FER Director General;
1    7  appointment of members of Board of Directors;        Met
        Board is operational.
        The Government has undertaken the following
        actions: CAMEP: Calls for bids have been
        launched to recruit international audit and
        management firms to conduct a financial audit of
        CAMEP as well as a management and technical
        audit in preparation for its reform and management
1    8  improvement program. APN: Calls for bids have        Met
        been launched to recruit international audit firms to
        conduct the financial audit of APN. EDH: Call for
        bid for selection of international firm has been
        issued for accounting rehabilitation. TELECO:
        Accounting rehabilitation of TELECO has been
        completed.

        Coordinator for Communication and Relations
        with Civil Society appointed by the Minister of
        Economy and Finance. Decision on the modules of
        the economic governance program to be monitored
        by civil society made, and information is published
        in local papers by Ministry of Economy and
1    9  Finance. TORs for the Consultative Committee       Met
        and Executive Secretariat approved by Minister of
        Economy and Finance (TORs will include
        responsibility of Executive Secretariat to publish
        the reports prepared by civil society organizations
        charged with monitoring of the economic
        governance program).
        Sound macroeconomic framework maintained as
        evidenced for example by the continued successful
2    1  implementation of the Government                   Met
        macroeconomic stabilization program supported by
        the IMF.
        Satisfactory execution of the FY 2004-05
        approved budget in accordance with its objectives
2    2                                                     Met
        and approved allocations. Key budget execution
        data widely disseminated to the local media.
        No more than 10 percent of cumulative non-salary
2    3  current public expenditures since beginning of     Met
        FY2004-05 disbursed through comptes courants.
        Approval and publication of new decree
        modifying the 1983 decree on the organization and
2    4  functioning of the CSCCA, consistent with the new Met
        Loi Organique on the preparation and execution of
        Budget Laws, and satisfactory to IDA.
        Data collection from survey on corruption
2    5  practices in Haiti has been completed and first    Met
        draft report on said survey has been completed.
        Competitive recruitment of members of the
        CNMP completed; international procurement
        consultant/s hired; standard bidding documents
        adopted; systematic dissemination on the Internet
2    6                                                     Met
        and/or local newspapers of the results of tendered
        bids since December 2004; creation of database of
        Government suppliers available to the public
        through the CNMP.

                              First road maintenance contract awarded since
       2             7                                                                Met
                             FER creation; contract published.
                              The Government has undertaken the following
                             actions for at least three of the five public
                             enterprises included in the economic governance
                             program: CAMEP: International audit and
                             technical review firms selected for financial audit,
                             management and technical audit. AAN and APN:
                             International audit firms have been competitively
                             selected and financial audits of APN and AAN
                             initiated. EDH: Accounting rehabilitation of EDH
                             is ongoing and has progressed satisfactorily as per
                             agreed work program; international audit firm has
       2             8                                                                Met
                             been selected to conduct financial audit of EDH;
                             the Government has authorized the launching of
                             calls for bids to recruit an international firm to
                             undertake an assessment of environmental
                             liabilities as the first of a series of studies that will
                             lead to the preparation of the Management
                             Contract of EDH. TELECO: International firm has
                             been selected to carry out financial audit; decision
                             made on option for restructuring the sector, taking
                             into account, inter alia, the results of a sector-wide
                             review.
                              Executive Secretariat hired through a competitive
                             process. Timely provision of information requested
                             by civil society organizations (which would have
                             been competitively selected by the Executive
                             Secretariat) in charge of the monitoring of selected
       2             9                                                                Met
                             modules of the economic governance program.
                             Monthly discussions of monitoring results by
                             Government, Executive Secretariat and civil
                             society organizations selected for monitoring of
                             economic governance program.
Comments


While the Government's economic reform program included a large number of measures covering the
areas detailed in section 6.4 of this Implementation Completion and Results Report and listed in Annex 6
of the EGRO Program Document, the EGRO included as tranche release conditions a sub-set of these
measures (detailed above) selected on the basis of their importance and expected Government's
implementation capacity.

7.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation


Implementation of the program of economic governance reforms supported by the EGRO was negatively
affected by the difficult security situation, particularly in the run-up to the elections. This was
particularly the case for the launching of the audits of public enterprises given that international firms'
interest and willingness to bid for such audits was weakened by the difficult security environment. It
should be noted that the Government made an extraordinary effort, with the support of IDA's staff, to
pro-actively solicit the interest of international audit firms to bid for these contracts -- a demonstration of
its commitment and determination to pursue its governance efforts in this area -- and as a result was able
to recruit top audit firms for four public enterprises.
Program implementation was also affected by Government weak implementation capacity. Years of
political instability, insecurity and low pay have led to the loss of skilled staff. The reversal of these
constraints will take time, particularly given the budgetary constraints faced by Government which
limit its ability to attract and maintain skilled civil servants over the short term. Despite these
limitations, the Government and IDA ensured close coordination and regular monitoring of the reform
program implementation, which allowed for timely identification of problems and bottlenecks and their
rapid resolution. Notable in this respect was the presence of the EGRO first task manager in the field
during January-October 2005 and, in addition to supervision missions, the practice of holding regular
implementation review meetings (via phone and video conferences) between the Government inter-
agency implementation team and IDA staff, with these meetings being held twice per month during the
period November 2005 and March 2006.
Several factors have had a positive effect on project implementation. The technical assistance, both
informal during the period in which the operation was designed and through the parallel Institutional
Development TA Project and LICUS Grant on economic governance, was instrumental in helping the
Government design and implement the reforms. Another positive factor was the linkages
between the policies and reforms introduced under the IMF EPCA and those supported
by EGRO, the close coordination between the donors supporting economic governance reforms (IDA,
IMF, IDB, EU and Canada) and the resulting joint donor support for certain key reforms which added
momentum for the Government to act.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) was the principal executing agency and had responsibility
for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of the EGRO supported program. Other ministries and
agencies, notably the Prime Minister Office, the Ministry of Public Works, the ULCC, the CNIMP, the
CMEP, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Planning and External
Cooperation, and public enterprises (EdH, TELECO, APN and CAMEP) also had key roles in executing
the program, and worked with the MEF in implementing program components under their respective
jurisdictions.

The Bank monitored implementation through regular supervision missions as well as the presence in the
field of the first EGRO task team leader and frequent phone and video conference from Washington.
EGRO, the LICUS grant and the Institutional Development TA Project preparation and supervision

missions also provided technical assistance and advisory services, in close coordination with other
donors.

The monitoring of the EGRO program was based on the use of a matrix to track reform implementation.
 This matrix identified pending reform measures, bottlenecks or pending problems, expected next steps
and institutional responsibilities for follow-up (on both the Government and IDA sides). This matrix was
updated regularly by the Government EGRO coordinator and IDA EGRO task team leader and was used
by both teams during the regular implementation review meetings and supervision missions.

7.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if applicable)


A second EGRO operation (EGRO II, of US$23 million also in two tranches) is currently under
preparation, aimed at pursuing and deepening the reforms introduced in the area of economic governance
with support of the first operation and envisaged under the ICF. A matrix of reforms to be supported by
EGRO II has already been identified jointly by the Government and IDA and the Government is in the
process of implementing the first tranche conditionalities. EGRO II is scheduled to be presented to the
Board on January 2007.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The EGRO objectives, design and implementation arrangement were highly relevant to Haiti. This is
based on the following considerations. First, the operation aimed at the critical objectives of
the Government economic governance program as presented in the ICF, and for which the Government
demonstrated strong ownership. The EGRO was also a main component of IDA's program of re-
engagement in Haiti as described in the TSS which focused on supporting reforms that promote longer-
term economic governance and institutional development and delivering hope through quick wins such as
improved basic services delivery and job creation.

Second, a relevant design was achieved through close collaboration with other donor agencies providing
assistance in the areas targeted by EGRO, including the IMF, IDB, USAID, CIDA, EU and the French
Cooperation Agency and complemented their efforts. This ensured that Government efforts were focused
on a commonly agreed and supported reform agenda. An economic governance group (table sectorielle)
led by the Government has been operating in Haiti to help coordinate donor work and to ensure it meets
Haitian priorities.

Third, the operation recognized the high level of risk involved in the implementation of the reform
program (including the difficult security situation, capacity constraints in the public sector, the political
transition and commitment of future governments to sustain the reforms initiated by the Transition
Government) and tried to mitigate these risks through the provision of significant technical assistance,
close donor coordination, the involvement of civil society in monitoring governance reforms, and
communication and outreach efforts. Also, its implementation was supported by a very close

collaboration between the Government and IDA staff, and regular and frequent program implementation
monitoring meetings and supervision missions. Finally, the operation relied heavily on earlier studies
conducted by IDA and other institutions and supported additional work (such as the diagnostic survey of
the state of governance and the perception of corruption in Haiti).

8.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by the operation and outcomes)


Haiti embarked on its reform program after decades of political instability, in a context of severely
eroded institutions and poor governance. During 2005 and 2006, the Haitian authorities made significant
progress in the implementation of economic governance reforms. These have included actions to improve
the legal framework, create and strengthen core public institutions, and enhance financial management
processes and procedures, as summarized in 6.4. As a result, the EGRO development objectives and key
indicators have been achieved satisfactorily. All EGRO Board conditions were implemented, some prior
to Board presentation in January 2005 and others prior to the disbursement of the second tranche in
March 2006. While there were slight delays in the implementation of EGRO second tranche conditions,
this was mainly due to the country's difficult security environment.

After the disbursement of the second tranche, the Transition Government continued the implementation
of its economic governance reform program in the areas supported by the EGRO. More importantly, the
recently elected Government [1] has declared its commitment to continue the economic governance
reform program started under EGRO. Already, it has agreed with IDA on a matrix of reforms to be
supported by a follow-on EGRO II operation (under preparation) and EGTAG II (approved by the IDA
Board in June 2006), and detailed it in the I-PRSP which it completed in August 2006. Priorities under
EGRO II will focus on ensuring full and effective implementation of the new legal and institutional
framework introduced under EGRO. This would be accomplished first by continuing the reforms initiated
in the areas of budget management, public expenditure controls, procurement, human resource
management, management of public enterprises and civil society monitoring. The Government is in the
process of implementing the first tranche conditionalities of EGRO II which is scheduled to be presented
to the Board on January 2007. Given the nature and depth of the governance problems in Haiti and the
existing weak institutional capacity, results will be incremental and take time, but continued support for
these reforms will be critical for the ability of the Government to effectively use domestic and external
resources for social and economic development.

Progress in the implementation of the main components and objectives of the reform program supported
by the EGRO is summarized below:

A. Ensuring a sound macroeconomic framework
During 2004-06, Haiti made significant progress toward strengthening macroeconomic stability (see
Table 1).The economy gradually recovered from the shocks experienced in 2004 (political turmoil and
severe floods), and annual GDP growth is expected to increase to 2.5 percent in FY2006 from 1.8 percent
in FY2005[2]. However, recurring security problems have adversely affected economic activity, donor
project implementation and other inflows of foreign exchange. With increased revenues and tighter

expenditure controls, the central government overall deficit (including grants) was reduced from 3.5
percent of GDP in FY2003 to a projected 1.1 percent in FY2006. This has largely eliminated recourse to
central bank financing of the central government deficit. This substantial fiscal adjustment has also helped
reduce end-of-period inflation from 37.8 percent in FY2003 to a projected 12.4 percent in
FY2006. During 2004-06, the authorities' macroeconomic program was supported by the IMF's
Emergency Post Conflict Assistance program, with disbursements in January 2005 (SDR10.23 million or
US$15.6 million) and October 2005 (SDR10. 25 million or US$14.7 million). The EPCA remains on
track, and key end-September 2006 quantitative targets were met. An IMF PRGF arrangement covering
the next three years is scheduled to be discussed by the IMF Board in November 2006.


                                            Haiti: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators
                                                     (Fiscal year ending September 30)


                                                                                2003     2004           2005          2006
                                                                                Actual   Actual     Prog. Actual  Prog.  Prel.


                                                         (Annual percentage change)


  GDP at constant prices                                                            0.4       -3.5    2.5    1.8    2.5    2.5
  Real GDP per capita                                                              -1.7       -5.4          -0.2           0.8
  Consumer prices (end-of-period)                                                  37.8       21.7  12.0    14.8   10.0   12.4


                                                              (In percent of GDP)
  Central government overall balance (including grants)                            -3.5       -2.5   -1.2   -0.7   -2.3   -1.4
  Current account balance (including grants)                                       -1.5       -1.3           1.3          -0.1


                                       (Changes in percent of beginning-of-period broad money)
  Broad Money (including foreign currency deposits)                                39.8        9.1  12.8    20.3    6.6    9.1


                                        (In millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated)


  Net International Reserves 1/                                                    38.8       54.5  85.4    70.6   83.6  125.7
  Liquid gross reserves 2/                                                        157.1    207.4     271   228.5  264.7  330.8
       In months of imports of the following year                                   1.2        1.4    1.7    1.4    1.4    1.8

  Sources: Ministry of Economy and Finance; Bank of the Republic of Haiti; and Fund staff estimates.

  1/ Includes commercial bank's foreign deposits with BRH.

  2/ Gross reserves excluding capital contributions to international organizations

B. Improvement of budget management and financial controls
Budget Preparation and Execution (including comptes courants). Considerable progress was achieved.
Basic budgetary procedures have been restored through: (1) timely preparation and adoption of the annual
budget and improved alignment of budget allocations with poverty reduction and economic recovery
priorities; (2) better budget execution monitoring which resulted, inter alia, in the significant reduction in
the use of discretionary accounts (comptes courants); and (3) more budget transparency through public
dissemination of budget allocations and expenditures.
Following several years of budgets being approved with delays, the FY2005, FY2006 and FY2007

budgets were approved on time before the beginning of the fiscal year on October 1. These budgets and
their execution reflected key objectives of the Interim Cooperation Framework, particularly those relating
to the economic governance program and of the macroeconomic stabilization program. Also, the FY2006
and FY2007 budgets were prepared according to the budget nomenclature for all revenues and
expenditures which was recently adopted. The approved budgets have been disseminated publicly (by
posting them on the Ministry of Economy and Finance's web site, and through newspaper articles, the
official gazette and leaflets) and key budget execution data have also been widely disseminated.

Efforts made by the Government to reduce drastically and regulate stringently the use of public agencies'
discretionary spending through ministerial current accounts have resulted in better budget execution
monitoring. The percentage of cumulative non-salary current public expenditures disbursed through
comptes courants (i.e. Ministries' own accounts where, in the past, budgetary resources were channeled
and used non-transparently for discretionary expenditures at the spending agency level) was reduced from
62 percent during October 2003-March 2004 to less than 15 percent for the period July-September 2004
and to less than 10 percent since September 2004 (with October being the beginning of FY2005).
Information on the use of the comptes courants has been disseminated to the public and information on
their use has been regularly shared with IDA. In addition, a survey of domestic payment arrears of the
central government has been completed and a strategy to address them is being formulated. Also, the
Government has caught up with the delays in the preparation of the Treasury accounts.

Financial Control. The external audit function was strengthened with the adoption of a decree on the
organization and functioning of the CSCCA (Supreme Audit Institution). The CSCCA ex-ante control
functions were removed, allowing it to focus on ex-post auditing and thereby eliminating some
duplication of functions and potential conflicts of interest. The LICUS and EGTAG are supporting the
training of CSCCA auditors in their new ex-post control functions. The CSCCA is catching up on delays
in the auditing of the Government accounts (it has finalized the audit report for FY2002, has almost
completed the one for FY2003 and plans to complete the audit of FY2004 before end CY2006). In
addition, a decree on the creation of the General Finance Inspection has been adopted to ensure the good
functioning of internal controls in the administration and a chart of account has been adopted. Also, the
statutes on financial comptrollers are being better defined, notably to improve their independence. The
first batch of recruitment of public accountants was completed with recruits for 9 ministries and units (the
Ministries of Public Works, Health, Education, Interior, Internal Revenue Department, Justice, Prime
Minister office, Presidency, Planning and External Cooperation and Social Affairs) currently completing
their training and expecting to start their function in October 2006. Follow-on batches of recruitments
are planned for October 2007 and the following three years. The recruitment of financial comptrollers
has been delayed due to the poor quality of the first applicants. A new recruitment effort is ongoing with
the objective of posting them in the first quarter of FY2007.

Public Investment Program (PIP). The current budget and the investment budget have been unified.
Also, the Aid Coordination Unit in the Prime Minister's Office, and more recently the Ministry of
Planning, has been tracking more frequently the disbursement of donor project funding. The PIPs for
FY2005 and FY2006 were broadly consistent with the framework and objectives of their respective
current budgets and the 2004 ICF. The ICF preparation process provided an input from donors and some

civil society organizations for the preparation of these PIPs. Weaknesses however remain, notably with
respect to inclusiveness of foreign financed expenditures, especially for projects financed by external
grants and executed by NGOs. This is because the Haitian authorities continue to have difficulties in
obtaining detailed and frequent expenditure information from some donors on projects whose execution
does not require the co-signing of the Government. Also, while human resource needs for investment
programming and monitoring in the Ministry of Planning and key sectoral ministries were identified in
2004, covering those needs fully was not possible due to resource constraints and other human resource
recruitment priorities. The Government is targeting these areas for further improvement. Since 2005,
technical assistance has been provided for the preparation of public investment programs to the
Government by EGTAG I.

Monitoring of Poverty-Related Expenditures. A Poverty Map published by the Ministry of Planning and
External Cooperation in 2004 identified four sectors with a high impact on poverty (education, health,
water and sanitation). Next, the Government completed in September 2006 an Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy which further developed its poverty reducing expenditure priorities. In addition, it identified
specific expenditures targeted to poverty for the use of HIPC resources in the FY2007 budget (see HIPC
Decision Point document, September 2006). A recent Public Expenditure Management assessment
(Assessment and Action Plan, AAP) to strengthen the capacity of Haiti to track poverty reducing public
spending was prepared jointly by IDA/IMF staff in consultation with the authorities in June 2006. The
AAP concluded that the recently introduced budget and accounting classifications allow monitoring of
budget allocations and expenditures following institutional, sectoral, administrative (including
development projects) and economic (expenditure types) dimensions. The budget is also presented in the
budget law annexes following a functional classification with 10 broad categories (such as education and
health). The AAP presented recommendations to improve the budget classification along functional and
program lines in order to better track poverty expenditures. The Government intends to adopt a an
automated system to track poverty related expenditure and publicly disseminate quarterly reports on the
execution of these expenditure according to the AAP recommendations and consistent with the planned
expansion of the automated system for budget information and management (SYSDEP) (see
HIPC Preliminary Document, September 2006).

Expansion of Automated System for Budget Information and Management. Haiti has an automated
financial management system, SYSDEP, which checks the availability of expenditure appropriations
committed and authorized for payment. In 2005, following an evaluation of alternative systems, the
Ministry of Finance decided to retain SYSDEP and sought donor assistance to expand its coverage and
add additional modules. At that time, SYSDEP was installed in five Ministries (Finance, including
Treasury, Planning, Health, Public Works, Interior and Local Government) as well as the CSCCA. Since
then, SYSDEP has been expanded to the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Education,
Commerce and Industry, Tourism, the Prime Minister's Office, the Presidency, the Haitian Institute for
Statistics, the ULCC, the Tax Directorate and the Customs Administration. Also, an interface has been
introduced to connect the SYSDEP with the fiscal revenue collection system in the MEF, thus covering
more than 50 percent of spending and revenue collection agencies. The Government is also in the
process of installing the infrastructure needed to connect SYSDEP to 17 additional sites by end 2006,
including the other remaining ministries, the Parliament and the Police.

C. Improvement of public procurement processes
In early 2005, the Government adopted a new Procurement Decree to establish the National Commission
for Public Procurement (CNMP), re-affirm the use of competitive procurement methods as the norm and
introduce other good practices in public procurement. The creation of the CNMP, which is now
operational, has strengthened the institutional framework for procurement and is helping to introduce
more effective procurement controls in the public administration. The recent hiring of an international
procurement consulting firm will allow the CNMP to perform an extended range of its mandated
functions, in particular those associated with strengthening procurement capacity in line ministries which
is ongoing. The CNMP has also conducted a series of workshops with public sector procurement
officials to publicize the new decree and the Commission's role in implementing it. In addition, the
CNMP has produced standard bidding documents for civil works which were adopted through a
communication signed by the Prime Minister requiring all public sector entities to apply them. Finally,
clear advances in transparency have been achieved through the publication of lists of government
contracts awarded and a supplier database, both available through the CNMP website. While not all
procurement contracts currently go through the CNMP due to a significant number of sole-source
contracts contemplated by the law, the oversight of the CNMP has increased and the Prime Minister plans
to issue a directive to all purchasing agencies before end CY2006 to request the approval of the CNMP
for all contracts of more than US$1 million and thus ensure increased compliance with existing
regulations. In addition, a new Procurement Law is being drafted to further strengthen the legal
framework in line with international best practice and the Government plans to submit it to the Parliament
for approval in CY2007.

D. Stepping up of anti-corruption efforts
An Anti-Corruption Unit (ULCC) was created by decree and staffed as an autonomous entity under the
Ministry of Economy and Finance with the objective of developing and implementing a strategy to
improve governance and fight corruption in the public sector. As part of this, in December 2005 the Unit,
which is currently operational, completed a detailed comprehensive diagnostic survey (households,
public, private and the NGO sectors) on the state of governance and the perception of corruption in Haiti;
a report on the results of the survey has been prepared and preparation of a national anti-corruption
strategy is starting based on the results of the survey. A Steering Committee was established with twenty
representatives from civil society and Government to follow up on this effort. The Committee is expected
to play a major role in the dissemination of the survey results (planned for October 2006) and contribute
in the elaboration of the anti-corruption strategy. The Anti-Corruption Unit has also prepared a draft Law
for Public Sector Employees' Asset Declaration which is expected to be submitted to Parliament in the
coming months. The Unit is also developing a staff training plan that focuses on international best
practices, and lessons learned from the successful and less successful efforts around the globe. IDA
continues to provide technical assistance to support the ULCC's anti-corruption public sensitization
efforts and the drafting of a freedom of information law.

E. Human Resource Management and Institutional Capacity-Building
Initial steps have been taken toward setting in place the foundations for a modern, merit-based, career
civil service. Both a new civil service law and a law for the organization of the central administration

were drafted and enacted by decree in July 2005. A Coordination Unit was set up in the Prime Minister
Office with a mandate to oversee human resource functions, as a first step to promoting the
implementation of a new civil service law. A census of employment in selected ministries has been
completed, partly on an attendance list basis. With support from EGTAG I, this unit has drawn up an
action plan for meeting short and medium term human resource needs. It has also initiated contacts with
existing training institutes and with donors interested in providing training to develop a coordinated
program aimed at meeting the most urgent needs and ensuring that this is done in the most efficient
fashion. In addition, civil service salaries were increased by 30 percent in 2004, consistent with the
macroeconomic program, to partly compensate for the significant erosion of salaries due to high inflation
of previous years. The Transition Government also managed to attract experts from the Haitian diaspora
under an OAS funded program which greatly helped address immediate skill needs in targeted positions.
Recruitment and training programs have been conducted with priority on selected agencies (e.g. police,
public accountants, newly created agencies such as the ULCC, CNMP and revenue collection agencies).
In a significant effort to increase transparency, the FY2007 budget included in an annex a fairly
comprehensive list of Government employees with their respective remunerations (this annex is also
available in the MEF website).

F. Improving efficiency and transparency in the management of public enterprises and the Road
Maintenance Fund
To improve the management and transparency of key public enterprises, and with the support of the
World Bank Group (IDA and IFC), the IDB, Canada and the EC, the Government hired international
audit firms on a competitive basis to undertake financial audits for the national port authority (APN), the
telecommunications utility (TELECO), the national electricity company (EDH) and the metropolitan
water utility (CAMEP). The audit of the ports authority (APN) has been completed and APN has
prepared and is implementing an action plan to address the audit's recommendations. The audits of
TELECO and EDH have also recently been completed. The Government is in the process of relaunching
the bid for the financial audit of CAMEP after the selected firm decided to withdraw its offer due to
security concerns. In addition, the Government has also hired an international audit firm on a competitive
basis to undertake an administrative audit review of CAMEP and has selected an international firm, also
competitively, to undertake its technical review. The staff of the Conseil de Modernisation des
Entreprises Publiques (CMEP) was strengthened to coordinate the audit firm selection and contract
preparation process. While monthly progress reports were not prepared by the CMEP as planned, its
representatives participated regularly in EGRO monitoring review meetings and provided regular
information on the audit hiring process as input for the EGRO monitoring matrix. The Government also
undertook an accounting rehabilitation of TELECO and EDH.

Progress made within the telecom sector has proven particularly noteworthy. Following a comprehensive
accounting rehabilitation and major management reorganization of TELECO, the Government recently
concluded a sector-wide review indicating its intention to increase private sector involvement and intends
to prepare a new telecoms law to update the sector's legal framework in line with international changes. A
newly licensed mobile private operator has entered the market and has negotiated an IFC investment
which was recently presented to the Board. As regards the electricity sector, the Government, EDH, and
donor community signed a Memorandum of Understanding in October 2005, committing all parties to a

series of measures to strengthen governance and increase the efficiency and transparency of investments
in the electricity sector. The Government is also introducing a mechanism for monitoring budgetary
transfers to the electricity sector; it also launched a competitive bidding process for petroleum purchases
for the sector. The IDA-financed US$ 6.0 Electricity Loss Reduction Project, which was approved by the
Board in Q1 FY07, will provide support to improve the quality of electricity services in Port-au-Prince
and to strengthen the financial and operational performance of EDH. Efforts to mobilize resources for the
audit of AAN from donors have so far been unsuccessful. The Government is committed to pursue with
the audits of this institution as soon as resources are mobilized.

The Government took a number of measures to strengthen the Road Maintenance Fund (FER) which was
created by law in 2003 with the objective of becoming the corner stone of the road maintenance strategy
in Haiti: members of the FER Board were appointed, the list of roads whose maintenance will be financed
by FER was published, budget allocations were made to ensure its functioning and the FER has reached
basic institutional capacity with the recruiting of key staff and the definition of its operational procedures.
Also, the first road maintenance contract to be financed by FER was awarded and the contract was signed
in early 2006. As of March 2006, other routine maintenance contracts to be financed by FER were under
preparation with the financial support of the EU. An IDA-supported Transport and Territorial
Development project approved by the Board in late FY2006 is expected to build on and further the
progress that has been achieved in this area.

G. Institutional Arrangements for Enhanced Public-Private Partnerships and Good Governance
in Education and Health
After many years of lack of attention to sound sector social policies and given the limited public sector
resources, the private sector (including NGOs) has played a critical role in providing basic education and
health services. Rather than attempting to reclaim for the public sector a role that it cannot fulfill
satisfactorily for lack of resources and capacity, in 2005 the authorities decided to strengthen the
partnership between the public sector and private providers while strengthening the regulatory capacity of
the public sector. This entails improving transfers to private schools based on transparent criteria and an
accountability mechanism, and allowing public health facilities to sign services agreements with private
health insurance agencies especially outside the capital city.

However, delays were encountered in the implementation of these measures. In 2006, the Government
drafted legislation for the creation of the National Education Partnership Office (NEPO) and the National
Partnership Fund (NPF) and submitted it to Parliament for approval in early October 2006. The NEPO is
designed to promote policy dialogue and operational coordination between the public and non-public
education sectors, including supervision and evaluation of non-public schools by the State while the
companion NPF would provide a public financing mechanism to help poor families pay for the school
fees of their children in non-public schools. This is the first real education sector governance structure
which encompasses all key education stakeholders, promoting not just effective dialogue between the
public and non-public sectors but also accountability and transparency in the use of public education
funds, particularly those channeled through the National Partnership Fund.[3] While the Government has
reiterated the importance of promoting policy dialogue and operational coordination between the public
and non-public health sectors, limited progress has been made on this.

H and I. Civil society monitoring mechanism and communication and outreach on economic
governance reforms
In 2005 the Government set up a mechanism for civil society to monitor the Government's program of
economic governance reforms. The creation of such a mechanism required significant capacity building
on both the Government and civil society organizations side due to the novelty of such an approach in
Haiti, and thus encountered some initial delays. However, as a result of important efforts from all parties
involved, the civil society monitoring mechanism was operational by early 2006 and regularly monitoring
reports have been prepared on progress made in the implementation of governance reforms.

As part of this effort, in April 2005, a workshop was held in Port-au-Prince attended by civil society
organizations and relevant government entities to jointly define the monitoring framework and indicators.
In June 2005, a Consultative Committee was established consisting of twelve reputable members of eight
sectors of civil society, including the private sector, academia, grassroots and women organizations, and
the churches. In November 2005, the Consultative Committee competitively hired a Haitian think tank
(ECOSOF) as its Executive Secretariat. Five civil society organizations (CSOs) were also competitively
hired to monitor the five components of the economic governance program. The Consultative Committee
has been meeting on a regular basis with representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance to
discuss progress made in the setting up of the monitoring mechanism. The first monthly discussion of
monitoring results by the Executive Secretariat and CSOs was held on February 16, 2006, and by the
Government, the Consultative Committee and Executive Secretariat was held on March 2, 2006, and
other meetings have followed since. The summary of the CSOs' monitoring reports has been published on
the Ministry of Economy and Finance website. A workshop with civil society organizations and
Government relevant agencies and ministries was held in June 2006 to review the experience with such a
mechanism to date and identify adjustments in its functioning to improve its effectiveness. As a
recommendation of the workshop, going forward the CSOs' monitoring reports will be prepared on a
quarterly basis to better reflect the pace of reforms and improve their quality. Some of the observations
contained in the CSOs' reports have informed the design of the components of EGRO II and thus affected
Government's policies.

The EGRO also supported Government efforts to increase understanding and raise awareness of
governance reforms. The Ministry of Economy and Finance appointed a civil society and communication
coordinator, and prepared a draft communication strategy. The Government prepared a proposal for a
LICUS grant to finance the implementation of the strategy. Also, the Minister of Economy and Finance
held press briefings and interviews and articles on economic governance themes were published to raise
awareness about the governance reform program; it circulated the ICF in French and Creole and the
economic governance thematic report; and the Ministry's website is now updated more regularly and its
users have increased in numbers.
________________________________________
[1] Presidential and Parliamentary elections took place in early 2006. The new coalition government headed by Prime Minister Alexis
received almost unanimous approval in Parliament in June 2006.
[2] The Haitian fiscal year runs from October 1 to September 30. For example, FY2005 refers to the fiscal year 2004.
[3] The NEPO is expected to be governed by an eight-member Board of Directors which will include representatives from non-public
education service providers, parents' associations, teachers' unions, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education.

8.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance and achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Satisfactory


Objectives, design and implementation were relevant to Haiti's priorities and to the Bank strategy. The
operation's objectives were achieved and the sustainability of the reforms implemented is likely over the
medium-term. The Government has continued implementation of the reforms in the context of a follow-
on IDA Operation (EGRO II) supporting the second phase of the economic governance reform program

8.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The EGRO supported the Government's efforts to improve the allocation, efficiency and effectiveness of
public expenditure, improve transparency and accountability in the public sector and increase the
country's absorption capacity for external resources. These efforts are expected to have a positive impact
on public service provision and improved environment for private sector activity, growth, employment
creation and poverty reduction.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The development and strengthening of core institutions for economic governance was an
important component of the EGRO. Specific areas where the EGRO has had an impact include: the
strengthening of the CSCCA, though the adoption of a decree which clarifies its attributions and the hiring
and training of technical staff;   the establishment of the CNMP, which is now operational and is helping
to introduce more effective procurement controls in the public administration; the financial, technical and
organizational auditing of several SOEs; the creation and staffing of the Anti-Corruption Unit (ULCC),
as part of the Government plan to develop and implement an anti-corruption strategy; strengthening of
the FER, to improve efficiency and transparency in the management of road maintenance; and the
establishment of a Consultative Committee to develop and implement a mechanism for civil society to
monitor the economic governance program as well as strengthen civil society organizations involvement
and expertise on issues of economic governance, thus helping to create demand in the country for
governance reforms.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)



8.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Satisfactory


Given Haiti's history of political instability and fragile security situation, as well as weak
institutional capacity, risks to the development outcome remain significant. However, recent
developments in Haiti indicate that the governance reforms supported by the EGRO program are
being pursued and deepened for the following reasons: (i) the government commitment to and ownership
of the project are strong as indicated by the commitment shown during implementation of the program
and recent endorsement to the reforms by the newly elected government; and (ii) donor support for the
program objectives and activities is well coordinated. The level of donor coordination is high and the
commitment to support Haiti remains strong as evidenced in the July 2006 donor conference. The
mechanisms now in place to broaden citizen understanding of the reform process and involve civil society
in the monitoring of progress will also be critical to sustain the reforms introduced with EGRO support.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory


Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. IDA supported the Government in
the identification of its economic governance program conducted in the context of the 2004 ICF. In fact,
IDA staff were the focal point for the donor community for the economic governance pillar of the ICF
and for the preparation of the background paper on economic governance which defined the
Government's program of reforms for 2004-06. Such program informed the design of EGRO, ensured
Government's ownership of these reforms and offered a framework for donors' increased coordination
around the reforms supported by EGRO. Also, the EGRO program design owes much to a number
of studies (e.g., the Country Procurement Assessment Review) which informed the focus and content of
the reforms.

Collaboration with the IMF has been close and an active dialogue and close coordination in the
identification of technical assistance needs were conducted with other donors such as the IDB, Canada
and EU (also involved on economic governance in Haiti), in particular in the areas of audits of key public
enterprises (EDH and CAMEP) for which these donors provided financing. IDA also heavily supported
the Government's efforts to introduce a mechanism for civil society to monitor economic governance
reforms, by providing technical assistance for the definition of the monitoring framework and for an
assessment of the functioning of the mechanism through workshops with interested parties.
As such, the EGRO was fully consistent with one of the key pillar the Government's own development

strategy and the TSS. IDA is perceived by the authorities as supportive and understanding of the
challenges faced by the country in pursuing its economic governance agenda, notably the human resource
capacity constraints.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
Rating: Satisfactory


Bank quality of supervision was satisfactory. After the disbursement of the first tranche, the Bank
remained fully engaged with the authorities, providing technical assistance and closely monitoring the
implementation of the program. In order to address capacity bottlenecks, IDA complemented the
assistance under the EGRO with technical assistance provided by an Economic Governance LICUS grant
and two Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grants.

IDA staff, which included specialists for each of the reforms targeted, also worked closely with the
Government staff and partner donors (EU, Canada and IDB) throughout the implementation of the reform
program (even after disbursement of the EGRO second tranche) to help address implementation
bottlenecks as these emerged. Also, IDA set up, jointly with the Government, a supervision and
monitoring mechanism which relied on frequent and regular reviews of reform implementation status via
phone and video conferences with the Government's team (which during November 2005 and March
2006 took place twice per month), weekly updating of an implementation tracking matrix and regular
missions by team members. While the original assumption of the timing of the second tranche proved out
to be optimistic, the supervision and monitoring arrangement jointly set up with the Government ensured
that the implementation bottlenecks were addressed and second tranche conditions were fully met.

As indicated above, the work with the authorities continues, as a follow-on EGRO II is under preparation
to support the second phase of the Government economic governance reform program, thus
providing continuity and sustained support for these reforms.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


The overall performance of the Bank is considered satisfactory. IDA staff supported the
Government's own identification of reforms (through the ICF process), provided extensive technical
assistance relating to the preparation and implementation of the EGRO supported program and helped
leverage that of other donors, ensured coordination with the IMF and these donors, and ensured close
monitoring of EGRO program implementation through frequent and regular reviews.

10.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Despite limited capacity and a challenging political and
security situation, the Government made committed efforts to implement the reforms supported by the
EGRO. In particular, it should be noted that the Government made an extraordinary effort, with the
support of IDA's staff, to pro-actively solicit the interest of international audit firms to bid for public
enterprise audit contracts -- a demonstration of its commitment and determination to pursue its
governance efforts in this area -- and as a result was able to recruit top audit firms for four public
enterprises. Also, despite the difficult country environment, the Government implemented all the EGRO
tranche release conditions and several of the other reforms included in the program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

  Implementing
     Agency                                                Performance

                    The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) was the principal executing agency and
                    had responsibility for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of the EGRO supported
                    program and to coordinate the work of other ministries and agencies, notably the Prime
                    Minister Office, the Ministry of Public Works, the ULCC, the CNMP, the CMEP, the
                    Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Planning and External
                    Cooperation, and public enterprises (EdH, TELECO, APN and CAMEP).


Ministry of
Economy and         Although some delays were encountered in the first half of 2005 in the implementation
Finance             of the EGRO supported program, due to difficulties in recruiting international firms for
                    the audit of public enterprises (largely due to the difficult security situation), the staff in
                    the MEF tightened monitoring and coordination of the EGRO program in the second
                    half of the year and, with the support of a detailed implementation matrix, provided
                    sound leadership to address bottlenecks or pending problems, and ensured high level
                    Government attention for the most complex issues.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


On the whole, the Government's reform program was well focused and designed and has been implemented
under difficult circumstances. Identification and implementation of the program had to take into account

the possible impact on the program of a fragile political situation, a serious shortage of skills in the public sector,
possible external shocks, and weak economic management in the preceding years. Macroeconomic stability was
restored and Haiti is on track with the IMF supported EPCA program. All EGRO conditions have been met and
several other reform measures covered by the Government's program have been implemented. The authorities
continue to implement measures to improve economic governance, in preparation for EGRO II.

11. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)


Choice of lending instrument. The decision to do a two-tranche structural adjustment operation was
adequate in view of the possible risks affecting the operation, the period required by the Government to
implement this first phase of governance reforms and the need to test the Government's sustained
commitment to the reform program. The Government was satisfied with this choice of lending
instrument and has requested that the follow-on operation, EGRO II, use the same instrument (a two-
tranche DPL). This will allow IDA to support the Government program in 2006-07 until the full Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper, with its medium-term reform program, is finalized in late 2007, thus allowing
the use of annual PRSCs afterwards.

Client commitment. The successful implementation of the Government's program followed from its
ownership and degree of commitment. The preparation of the Interim Cooperation Framework that
preceded the design of the EGRO (including its economic governance reform program) helped strengthen
the Government's ownership and commitment to the EGRO supported program and to its medium-term
sustainability. Also, the emphasis on communication on and monitoring by civil society of these reforms
had a positive impact on the Government's commitment to its implementation.

Institutional capacity. Experience with the implementation of the EGRO has shown that the choice of its
tranche conditionalities was judiciously selective, focusing on those measures that were likely to make the
greatest impact, were critical to the successful achievement of the program objectives and enjoyed broad
Government support. The overall governance reform program, containing measures additional to the
EGRO tranche conditions and detailed in Annex 6 presenting the Letter of Development Policy outlined
by the Government, however proved ambitious with respect to the country's existing institutional
capacity. Thus, while most of these measures have been implemented, delays have been encountered in
the areas of public-private partnership in the education and health sectors, and the hiring of technical and
managerial personnel in public sector entities, with the exception of key agencies, due to financing and
available skill constraints. Although the design of the EGRO anticipated that weak institutional capacity
represented a critical risk for the implementation of the reform program, and judiciously selected the
EGRO tranche release conditions, experience during the last two years has highlighted how severe this
problem is and the significant amount of technical assistance and realistic time frames needed for
implementation. In this respect, the timely delivery of technical assistance by the international
community has been and remains critical to making sufficient progress in the reform program. Also, it
confirms the need to continue to pursue the reform program incrementally.

Donor coordination. As mentioned earlier, close coordination among donors in the provision of

financial and technical assistance greatly contributed to the outcome of the reform program. Going
forward, and as the economic governance reform program enters its second and more complex phase, it
will be critical that coordination with the other donors active in this area continues and be further
strengthened.

The lessons detailed above are being taken into account for the preparation of EGRO II.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)

The Economic Governance Reform Operations (EGRO) in the amount of SDR 40.7
million (US$61 million equivalent) supported the Government's implementation of
critical economic governance reforms to increase transparency and efficiency in the use
of public resources and external assistance. The key objectives were: (a) improvement of
budgetary processes and financial controls; (b) strengthening of public procurement
processes; (c) stepping up of anti-corruption efforts; (d) improving efficiency and
transparency in the management of public enterprises and the Road Maintenance Fund;
and (e) creating a mechanism for civil society to monitor economic governance reforms
and supporting Government communications efforts to increase public understanding and
raise awareness of governance reforms.

The preparation of the EGRO was carefully coordinated with the IMF, IDB and other
donors. It was underpinned by the analysis of economic governance weaknesses
contained in the Government's Economic Governance Strategic Group Sectoral
Report (background paper for the ICF prepared by an inter-ministerial team supported by
donors, including World Bank staff, in April-June 2004), as well as analytical work
undertaken by IDA, IMF, IDB and other donors and institutions. Technical assistance for
the implementation of the economic governance reforms supported by the EGRO was
provided by IDA through a LICUS grant that was approved in September 2004 (US$1.5
million) and an Economic Governance Technical Assistance IDA grant (US$2 million)
approved in May 2005.

The EGRO consisted of a credit of SDR 24.3 million (US$ 36.5 million equivalent) and a
grant of SDR 16.4 million (US$ 24.5 million equivalent). The operation was disbursed
in two tranches. The first tranche, of US$46 million equivalent (of which US$27.5
million equivalent in the form of credit and US$18.5 million equivalent in the form of a
grant) was disbursed upon effectiveness in January 2005, based on actions taken by the
Government prior to Board presentation. The second tranche was disbursed in March
2006, upon completion of the actions agreed with IDA, for an amount of US$15 million
equivalent (of which US$ 9 million equivalent in the form of credit and US$6 million
equivalent in the form of grant). Following the disbursement of the second tranche of the
Credit, the government continued to implement follow-up actions and reforms in areas
supported by EGRO.

The Government Letter of Development Policy (Annex 6 to the EGRO Program
Document) included a number of outcome and benchmark indicators to help gauge
progress toward achieving the objectives of the Government s program supported by the
EGRO.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)


Credit objectives remained unchanged.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                          Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

  Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at

                                       approval documents)      Target Completion or Target
                                                                Values            Years
              Satisfactory implementation of reforms related to budget preparation and
Indicator 1 :
              execution, financial management and financial control.
              Budgets were not         Budgets prepared and              Budgets prepared and
              prepared or were         managed according to              managed according to
              approved with            provisions of new                 provisions of new
Value         significant delays for 5 organic law. Budget               organic law. Budget
(quantitative years. Weak financial    execution data                    execution data
or            control mechanisms       published regularly.              published regularly.
Qualitative) and practices. No audit Reduced use of                      Reduced use of
              of budget. Extensive     comptes courants.                 comptes courants.
              use of comptes courants Government accounts                Government accounts
              (see text).              prepared regularly.               prepared regularly.
Date
                     12/31/2004              01/06/2006                         09/27/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              Satisfactory implementation of reforms related to anti-corruption and procurement
Indicator 2 :
              practices.


              Corruption is pervasive; Functional anti-                  Functional anti-
Value
              Public procurement is    corruption unit.                  corruption unit.
(quantitative
              done in a scattered      Functional public                 Functional public
or
              manner, giving           procurement                       procurement
Qualitative)
              opportunity for          commission.                       commission.
              corruption.
Date
                     12/31/2004              12/31/2005                         09/27/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %

achievement)
              Satisfactory implementation of reforms related to management of road
Indicator 3
              maintenance fund and transparency in the management of public enterprises.
              Road network is in very First road maintenance              First road maintenance
              bad condition in both   contract procured                   contract procured
              urban and rural areas.  transparently.                      transparently.
Value         Public enterprise       Accounting                          Accounting
(quantitative management is not       rehabilitation of EDH               rehabilitation of EDH
or            transparent.            and TELECO                          and TELECO
Qualitative)                          completed and                       completed and
                                      financial audits of at              financial audits of at
                                      least three key public              least three key public
                                      enterprises completed.              enterprises completed.
Date
                    12/31/2004               01/06/2006                          09/27/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              Satisfactory implementation of reforms related to internal and external
Indicator 4 : communication as well as monitoring of economic governance reforms by civil
              society.
              Communication around Regular and quality                    Ongoing
              economic governance     communication around                communication around
Value         issues is very weak.    economic governance                 economic governance
(quantitative Civil society           measures and results.               measures and results.
or            monitoring is           Regular reporting by                Regular reporting by
Qualitative) inexistent.              civil society                       civil society
                                      monitoring                          monitoring
                                      mechanism.                          mechanism.
Date
                    12/31/2004               01/06/2006                          03/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                    Original Target Values   Formally    Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator      Baseline Value        (from approval         Revised       at Completion or
                                         documents)           Target
                                                              Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 : Audit of Government accounts for 2001-02 completed and for 2002-03 started;

              comptes courants reduced to less 10% of non-salary current exp.
                                     Audit of Government                  Audit of Government
              No audits of
                                     accounts for 2001-02                 accounts for 2001-02
              Government
Value                                completed and for 2002-              completed and for 2002-
              accounts; comptes
(quantitative courants exceed 60% 03    started; comptes                  03 started; comptes
or                                   courants reduced to less             courants reduced to less
              of non-salary current
Qualitative)                         10% of non-salary                    10% of non-salary
              exp.
                                     current exp. since Sept.             current exp. since Sept.
                                     2004.                                2004.
Date
                   12/31/2004               01/06/2006                           09/27/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              Corruption survey completed. Board members of procurement commission
Indicator 2 : selected. Large procurement contracts reviewed by commission. Procurement
              procedures modernized.
              No comprehensive       Corruption survey                    Corruption survey
              data exist on          results produced and                 results produced and
              perception, sources disseminated. Capacity                  dissemination starting.
Value         and characteristics of for public procurement               Capacity for public
(quantitative corruption. No         strengthened, adequate               procurement
or            oversight of           oversight provided by                strengthened, adequate
Qualitative) procurement             procurement                          oversight provided by
              practices across       commission,                          CNMP and updating of
              government.            procurement procedures               procurement legal
                                     modernized.                          framework ongoing.
Date
                   12/31/2004               01/06/2006                           09/27/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              FER fully functional; firms selected to carry out financial audits of at least three of
Indicator 3 : the largest public enterprises; account rehabilitation of TELECO and EDH
              completed.
              No workplan was        At least a road                      At least a road
Value         available for          maintenance contract                 maintenance contract
(quantitative implementing road      awarded competitively                awarded competitively
or            maintenance. No        and ongoing. Firms                   and ongoing. Firms for
Qualitative) firm identified for     selected competitively               financial audit of three
              financial audits of    for financial audits of              key public enterprises

             public enterprises.   public enterprises               selected and contracted,
                                   (EDH, TELECO and                 and audits completed
                                   APN).                            (EDH, TELECO and
                                                                    APN).
Date
                   12/31/2004              01/06/2006                      09/27/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
             Civil society monitoring mechanism functional; monitoring reports prepared and
Indicator 4 : published. Economic governance reforms communicated to population; budget
              allocations/execution data is disseminated.
             No civil society      First civil society              First civil society
             monitoring in place. monitoring report is              monitoring report is
             No budget execution published. Budget                  published. Budget
Value
             data published.       execution data                   execution data published
(quantitative
                                   published on MEF                 on MEF webpage
or
                                   webpage regularly.               regularly.
Qualitative)
                                   Communication of                 Communication of
                                   economic governance              economic governance
                                   reforms is ongoing.              reforms is ongoing.
Date
                   12/31/2004              01/06/2006                      09/27/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


                                 Not Applicable

Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members


        Names                 Title               Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
                     Lead Economist and
Antonella Bassani                                LCSPR      Task team leader
                     Sector Lead
Supervision/ICR
Katherine A. Bain    Team Leader                 LCSPR      Civil society monitoring
                     Junior Professional
Franka Braun                                     LCSPR      Civil society monitoring
                     Associate
Charles L. Cadet     Consultant                  LCSPE      Budgetary processes
Maryse Calixte        E T Temporary              LCCHT      Team support
Samuel C. Carlson    Sr Education Spec.          LCSHE      Education and health
Susana Carrillo      E T Consultant              WBIGP      Anti-corruption
                     Senior Operations
Joelle Dehasse                                   AFCSN      Communications
                     Officer
Regine Durand        Consultant                  LCSPE      Budgetary processes
Auguste Tano
                     Asst. to the President       EXC       Former task team leader
Kouame
Patricia E. Macgowan Sr Procurement Spec.        LCSPT      Procurement
Richard Mathelier    Consultant                  LCSFW      Water
Juan Navas-Sabater   Sr Telecom. Spec.           CITPO      Telecoms
Ahmadou Moustapha Lead Financial
                                                 LCSFM      Financial management
Ndiaye               Management Spec
Mark Nelson          Sr Operations Off.          WBICD      Anti-corruption
Nicolas Peltier-     Senior Infrastructure
                                                 LCSFT      Transport
Thiberge             Economis
Benjamin Santa Maria Consultant                  LCSPS      Public sector reform
Manuel Schiffler     Senior Economist            LCSFW      Water
Clemencia Torres De  Senior Regulatory
                                                 LCSFE      Electricity
Mastle               Economist


(b) Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


No.Date ISR Archived       IP                 DO       Actual Disbursements (USD
                                                                  M)
                                    Moderately
 1       04/30/2005    SatisfactorySatisfactory                                46.85

 2       12/26/2005     Satisfactory Satisfactory                                    46.85


(c) Staff Time and Cost


                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                                 No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                       consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY05                                          38               267.73
                    FY06                                                              0.00
                    FY07                                                              0.00
                                      Total:                      38               267.73
Supervision/ICR
                    FY05                                          23                78.74
                    FY06                                          51               197.78
                    FY07                                                              4.00
                                      Total:                      74               280.52

Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The ICR was transmitted to the Government on September 12, 2006, for comments and
inputs. On September 29, 2006, the Government provided the bank with some input to
update factual information on a few issues discussed on the ICR and complimented the
Bank for the clarity of the ICR. No specific text for this section was provided.

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/ Stakeholders

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


Haiti CPAR, 1999.
Haiti Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, August 2006.
Minutes of EGRO Concept Review Meeting
Minutes of EGRO ROC Review Meeting
EGRO Program Document, Report No. 30882-HT.
Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Haiti, Dec. 2004.
Project Appraisal Document of the Economic Governance Technical Assistance Project, May
2005.
Project Appraisal Document of the Economic Governance Technical Assistance II Project, June
2006.
Haiti-Economic Governance LICUS Grant, 2005.
EGRO Aide-memoires, 2005-2006; and EGRO II (June 2006)
EGRO Program Concept Document, August 2004.
IMF Staff Reports, 2004-2006.
EGRO Development Credit Agreement, December 2005.
EGRO Release of Floating Tranche Board Memo-Full Compliance, March 2006.
Haiti Enhanced HIPC Initiative Preliminary Document, August 2006.
Haiti Country Economic Memorandum, June 2006.
Haiti Gestion des Depenses Publiques: Evaluation et Plan d

Annex 9. Additonal Annexes
9.1 Table A1  Haiti Economic Governance Reforms Supported by EGRO, 2004-2005


Policy                           Government's Program Actions Expected to     Output, Outcome and         Status of Actions                     Overall
Area                             be Taken (EGRO Tranche Release               Benchmark Indicators                                              Impact
                                 Conditions are in bold)                                                                                        Assessment


A. Macroeconomic Framework

                                 Sound macroeconomic framework                Macroeconomic targets       The Government's macroeconomic
                                 maintained as evidenced for example by       met under Government's      management and the
                                 continued successful implementation of the   macroeconomic               implementation of the first and
                                 Government's macroeconomic stabilization     stabilization program for   second IMF EPCA programs have
                                 program supported by the IMF.                example as per indicators   been satisfactory (see details in ICR
                                                                              selected in said program    sections 8.2). The IMF Board will
                                                                              supported by the IMF.       consider a request from the Haitian   Satisfactory
                                                                                                          Government for a PRGF
                                                                                                          arrangement in November 2006.
B. Budget Management and Financial Controls


                                 Budget for fiscal year 2004-05 adopted by    Monthly executed            The 2004-05 and 2005-06 budgets
                                 the Council of Ministers before beginning of expenditures in FY 2004-    were timely prepared and adopted.
                                 the fiscal year on October 1. Budget should  05 are in accordance with   Allocations were better aligned
                                 incorporate key objectives as indicated in   the key objectives of the   with poverty reduction objectives.
                                 the four pillars of the Interim Cooperation  ICF and with the            The budgets incorporated the
                                 Framework (ICF), particularly those          macroeconomic               priorities of the ICF and were in
                                 relating to the economic governance          stabilization program.      line with the objectives of the
                                 program and the objectives of the                                        macroeconomic stabilization and
                                 macroeconomic stabilization program. Civil   Steps followed in the       economic governance programs and

  Execution                      society and donors consulted during budget   budget execution            execution was broadly satisfactory.
                                 preparation.                                 (expenditure request,       Civil society and donors were
           andno                                                              approvals, internal control consulted during FY2004-05
                                 Approved budget has been widely              steps) are in accordance    budget preparation, and FY2004-05
                                 disseminated in the country through the      with provisions of the new  and FY2005-06 budget allocations
                                 official gazette and leaflets.               Organic Budget Law.         and expenditures were widely          Satisfactory
                eparati                                                                                   disseminated, including on MEF
                       Pr        Satisfactory execution of the FY 2004-005    Mailing of budget leaflets; website. Budget execution
                                 approved budget in accordance with its       press conferences by        conducted in accordance with new
                                 objectives and approved allocations.         Authorities; press articles Organic Budget Law.
                         Budget                                               in local papers showing
                                 Key budget execution data widely             wide dissemination of
                                 disseminated to the local media              budget related data and
                                                                              information. Monthly
                                                                              expenditure data posted on
                                                                              website of MEF.

                                                                      The investment program for FY2004-05,       Qualified technical staff       PIPs for FY2004-05 and
                                                                      satisfactory to the World Bank, is          posted in the 5 key Ministries  FY2005-06 were broadly
                                                                      consistent with the framework and           (Ministries of Planning,        consistent with framework and
                                                                      objectives of the national budget approved  Health, Education,              objectives of their respective
                                                                      in September 2004, and links Government     Agriculture, and Public         current budgets and the 2004
                                                                      investment spending with projected donor    Works); including in the        ICF. The ICF preparation
                                                                      disbursements within the framework of the   programming units where         process provided input from
                                                                      ICF.                                        relevant.                       donors and some civil society
                                                                                                                                                  organizations for preparation of
                                                                      Identification of human resource needs for  Adequate technical assistance   these PIPs. The Aid
                                                                      investment expenditure programming and      in place for the preparation of Coordination Unit in the Prime

IP)P(                                                                 monitoring in the MPCE and in the           the FY2005-06 public            Minister's Office, and more
                                                                      programming units of key sector Ministries  investment program.             recently the Ministry of
                                                                      (Health, Education, Agriculture and Public                                  Planning, has been tracking
                                                                      Works); provision of resources to cover     Consultations organized to      more frequently the
     ogramrP                                                          these needs included in the institutional   elicit beneficiaries' input.    disbursement of donor project
                                                                      capacity building components of sectoral                                    funding. Weaknesses however
                                                                      ministries' investment programs.            Draft public investment         remain, notably with respect to   Partially
            mentt                                                                                                 program available by June       inclusiveness of foreign          satisfactory
                                                                      Identified additional human resources for   2005 and reflecting outcome     financed expenditures. While

                 Inves                                                the investment expenditure programming      of consultations.               human resource needs for
                                                                      and monitoring are posted at the MPCE                                       investment programming and
                                                                      and in the programming units of the key                                     monitoring in the MPCE and
                      ublicP                                          sectoral ministries (Health, Education,                                     key ministries were identified
                                                                      Agriculture, Public Works).                                                 in 2004, covering those needs
                                                                                                                                                  fully was not possible due to
                                                                      FY 2005-06 investment program prepared                                      resource constraints and other
                                                                      taking into account the needs expressed by                                  human resource recruitment
                                                                      civil society and potential beneficiaries                                   priorities. Since 2005,
                                                                      during consultation workshops and a                                         technical assistance has been
                                                                      national forum with civil society                                           provided for preparation of
                                                                      participation.                                                              PIPs to Government by
                                                                                                                                                  EGTAG I.


                                                                      Adoption by MEF and MPCE of a               Decision made on the option     Poverty Map published in 2004
                                                                      timetable for the gradual implementation    for an integrated Financial     identifying four sectors with a
                                                                      of a poverty reduction public expenditure   Management System clearly       high impact on poverty;
                                                                      programming and monitoring system.          indicates how decision took     completion of I-PRSP in
                                                                                                                  into account, and will meet,    September 2006 further
                                                                      Dissemination of a timetable on steps to be needs for monitoring poverty-   developing Government
                                                                      taken toward the monitoring of poverty-     related public expenditures.    poverty reducing expenditure
                                                                      reducing expenditures.                                                      priorities; specific expenditures
                                                                                                                  Timetable under execution.      targeted to poverty for the use
                                                                      Choice of option in terms of the SYSDEP                                     of HIPC resources identified in

                            Expenditures                              does reflect the need for information on                                    the FY2007 budget; budget is
                                                                      monitoring poverty-related public                                           presented in budget law           Partially
                                                                      expenditures.                                                               annexes following a functional    satisfactory
                                                                                                                                                  classification with 10 broad
                                                                                                                                                  categories (such as education
                                                                                                                                                  and health). Government is
                                        verty-related
                                                     Po                                                                                           working towards adopting an

                                                       of                                                                                         automated system to track
                                                                                                                                                  poverty related expenditure and
                                                                                                                                                  publicly disseminate quarterly
                                                                                                                                                  reports on the execution of
                                                                                                                                                  these expenditures according to
                                                         Monitoring                                                                               the June 2006 AAP
                                                                                                                                                  recommendations and
                                                                                                                                                  consistent with the planned
                                                                                                                                                  expansion of SYSDEP for
                                                                                                                                                  poverty related expenditure
                                                                                                                                                  tracking.

                  Non-salary current public expenditures     Use of comptes courants kept    The percentage of cumulative
                  disbursed through comptes courants not     at below 10% of non-salary      non-salary current public
                  exceeding 15% for the period July-         current public expenditures.    expenditures
                  September 2004 and 10% for the                                             disbursed through comptes
                  months of September 2004.                  Criteria on use of comptes      courants was reduced from 62
                                                             courants are complied with      percent during October 2003-
                  No more than 10% of cumulative non-        by spending ministries.         March
                  salary current expenditures since                                          2004 to less than 15 percent for
                  beginning of FY 2004-05 disbursed          Articles in local papers, or    the period July-September 2004
                  through comptes courants.                  widely distributed leaflets on  (10 percent in September 2004)
                                                             causes and evolution of the     and to less than 10 percent
                  Information on use of comptes courants     usage of comptes courants,      since October 2004 (the
                  in past fiscal year widely disseminated.   and on efforts to contain their beginning of FY2005). This       Satisfactory
                                                             use in the future.              was achieved through strict
                  Criteria for use of comptes courants                                       control to increase compliance
                  adopted by GoH and disseminates to all                                     with the procedures defined by
                  public sector spending agencies through a                                  MEF for the use of
Courants          letter of Minister of Economy and Finance                                  discretionary accounts under

        tesp      the authorizing officers.                                                  specific conditions. Information
                                                                                             on the use of the comptes
                  Information on use of comptes courants in                                  courants has been disseminated
            Com   FY 2004-05 regularly disseminated                                          to the public and information
                  through the population as part of budget                                   on their use has been regularly
                  information dissemination.                                                 shared with IDA.

                  Monthly production of statistical data on
                  the use of comptes courants per spending
                  agency and per account number, specifying
                  the object of the advance made on each
                  compte courant; the information produced
                  for each month is shared with IDA before
                  the 15th of the following month.

                                                                   Adoption by the Council of Ministers and     Accountants and financial      The Decree was adopted by the
                                                                   publication of the Arrte portant rglement  comptrollers posted in key     Council of
                                                                   gnral de comptabilit Public (public       ministries and agencies.       Ministers on March 9, 2006,
                                                                   accounting implementation regulation) in                                    and published on March 14,
                                                                   the official gazette.                        Government general accounts    2006. The decree modifies the
                                                                                                                are regularly prepared by the  1983 decree on the organization
                                                                   Approval and publication of new decree       MEF and sent to CSCCA for      and functioning of the CSCCA,
                                                                   modifying the 1983 decree on the             audits as per new Loi          consistent with the new
                                                                   organization and functioning of the          Organique on the preparation    Loi Organique. The LICUS
                                                                   CSCCA consistent with the new Loi            and execution of Budget        Grant and EGTAG I are
                                                                   Organique on the preparation and             Laws.                          supporting training of CSCCA
                                                                   execution of the Budget Laws, and                                           auditors. The Government has
                                                                   satisfactory to IDA.                         CSCCA training program         caught up with the delays in the
                                                                                                                started and ongoing.           preparation of the Treasury
                                                                   Recruitment and posting of public                                           accounts.
                                                                   accountants and financial comptrollers for   Training program for other     The CSCCA is catching up on
                                                                   at least the Ministries of Public works,     Government staff involved in   delays in auditing of the
                                                                   Health, Education, Interior, Internal        budget process and financial   Government accounts (it has
rolt                                                               revenue Department, and the respective       control has started and is on- finalized audit report for
                                                                   Offices of the President and the Prime       going.                         FY2002, has almost completed
    Con                                                            Minister.                                                                   the one for FY2003 and plans
                                                                                                                Audit of Government account    to complete the audit of
                                                                   Adoption by Minister of Economy and          of 2001-2003 completed and     FY2004 before end CY2006).
                                                                   Finance of statutes on public accountants    regular practice of producing  Decree on creation of the
       Financial                                                   and financial controllers                    annual audit established.      General Finance Inspection and    Satisfactory
                                                                                                                                               a chart of accounts have been
                                                                   Adoption by MEF and publication of the                                      adopted; the statutes on
                                                                   Decree authorizing the establishment of                                     financial comptrollers are being
                                                                   the Office of Public Finance Inspection.                                    better defined, notably to
                                                                                                                                               improve their independence.
                                                                   Satisfactory progress in the                                                The first batch of recruitment of
                                                                   implementation of the CSCCA training                                        public accountants was
                                                                   program; adoption of the new organization                                   completed with recruits for 9
                                                                   chart of the CSCCA and filling of key                                       ministries and units currently
                                                                   posts.                                                                      completing training and
                                                                                                                                               expecting to start in October
                                                                   Finalization of the audit report for                                        2006. The recruitment of
                                                                   FY2001-02; preparation of FY2002-03                                         financial comptrollers was
                                                                   audit started.                                                              delayed by poor quality of the
                                                                                                                                               first applicants and new
                                                                                                                                               recruitment effort is ongoing.


                                                                   Internal review of SYSDEP (including         Report issued by the MEF on    In 2005, following evaluation
                                                                   comparison with other countries) and         the analysis of SYSDEP         of alternative systems, MEF
                                                                   analysis of options, as well as decision of  possible options for           decided to retain SYSDEP and
                and                                                MEF regarding its expansion or its           expansion or replacement.      sought donor assistance to
                                                                   replacement with a system that is more                                      expand it. Since then, SYSDEP
                                                                   adapted to the current constraints and       Decision regarding option to   has been extended from five
                   rmationo                                        future needs.                                be adopted is shared with      Ministries and CSCCA to ten
                                                                                                                Bank and made public.          additional Ministries and         Satisfactory
                           Inf                                                                                                                 agencies. Also, an interface
                                                                                                                                               was introduced to connect the
                              udgetBr                                                                           New IFMS system put in         SYSDEP with fiscal revenue
                                                                                                                place or SYDEP expanded to     collection system in the MEF--
                                     fo                                                                         cover of at least 50% of       thus covering more than 50
                                       mest            Management                                               spending and revenue           percent of spending and
                                                                                                                collection agencies.           revenue collection agencies.
                                           Sy                                                                                                  The Government is installing
                                             ted                                                                                               the infrastructure needed to
                                                ma                                                                                             connect SYSDEP to 17
                                                                                                                                               additional sites by end 2006,
                                                  Auto                                                                                         including the other remaining
                                                                                                                                               ministries, the Parliament and
                                                                                                                                               the Police.

                      Adoption by Council of Ministers of a       100% of all eligible           All five members of the CNMP,
                      decree, satisfactory to IDA, for the        procurement contracts going    including coordinator, were
                      establishment of the CNMP (decree also      through the CNMP.              recruited, their TORs prepared
                      establishes procedure for defining                                         and started work.
                      threshold of procurement contracts to       Capacity for public            Adoption in early 2005 of a
                      be reviewed by CNMP and reaffirms           procurement is in place, at    new Procurement Decree to
                      that public bids are the norm).             least in the Ministries of     establish the CNMP, re-affirm
                      Appointment of Coordinator of CNMP.         Public Works, Health,          use of competitive procurement
                      Preparation of the TORs satisfactory to     Education, and Interior and in methods as the norm and
                      IDA for members of CNMP.                    the respective offices of the  introduce other good practices
                                                                  President and the Prime        in public procurement.
                      Broad dissemination of the new decree to    Minister.                      International procurement
                      all entities involved in public procurement                                consulting firm was hired         Satisfactory
                      and to the larger population.               Updating of regulatory and     competitively in Febr. 2006 and
ent                                                               legal framework initiated.     is supporting CNMP in various
   m                  Competitive recruitment of members of                                      functions, including
                      the CNMP completed; international                                          strengthening procurement
                      procurement consultant/s hired;                                            capacity in line ministries
    Procure           standard bidding documents adopted;                                        which is ongoing. CNMP also
                      systematic dissemination on the Internet                                   conducted workshops with
           ublicP     and/or local newspapers of the results of                                  public sector procurement

                 C.   tendered bids since December 2004;                                         officials to publicize new
                      creation of database of Government                                         decree and the Commission's
                      suppliers available to the public through                                  role in implementing it.
                      CNMP.                                                                      Standard bidding documents
                                                                                                 were prepared by the CNMP
                                                                                                 and adopted through a
                                                                                                 communication of Prime
                                                                                                 Minister. Publication of lists of
                                                                                                 government contracts awarded
                                                                                                 and a supplier database
                                                                                                 regularly ongoing (both
                                                                                                 available through CNMP
                                                                                                 website). New Procurement
                                                                                                 Law is being drafted.

D. Anti-Corruption Initiatives


                    Adoption by Council of         Anti-corruption unit             The ULCC was created by
                    Ministers of ministerial       functioning well; internal       decree (which was published
                    decree authorizing             process is in place; work        and disseminated), staffed as an
                    creation of an Anti-           program and operational plan     autonomous entity under the
                    Corruption Unit as an          clearly established.             MEF and is currently
                    autonomous entity under                                         operational. In December 2005
                    MEF; finalization of the       Corruption cases identified by   the Unit completed a
                    TORs for the Unit;             the Anti-corruption Unit are     comprehensive diagnostic
                    appointment of the Unit's      referred to judicial authorities survey on state of governance
                    Director general and key       for prosecution and follow-up.   and perception of corruption in
                    personnel in place.                                             Haiti; a report on the results of
                                                   Survey on corruption practices   the survey was prepared and its
                    Publication of the Decree      completed and main               dissemination is planned for
                    in the official gazette and    conclusions incorporated in      November 2006, and
                    dissemination to the           medium-term anti-corruption      preparation of a national anti-
                    public at large for            strategy.                        corruption strategy is starting.   Satisfactory
                    example during a press                                          The Anti-Corruption Unit also
                    conference.                    Preparation of longer term       prepared a draft Law for Public
                                                   anti-corruption strategy         Sector Employees' Asset
                    Letter sent to IDA             initiated.                       Declaration expected to be
                    requesting partnership in                                       submitted to Parliament in the
                    preparing a                                                     coming months. The Unit is
                    comprehensive diagnostic                                        developing a staff training plan
                    survey on corruption                                            on international best practices
                    practices in Haiti (to                                          and lessons. IDA is providing
                    complement and deepen                                           technical assistance to support
                    the earlier study                                               the ULCC's anti-corruption
                    undertaken by heritage                                          public sensitization efforts and
                    Foundation  Haiti in                                           the drafting of a freedom of
                    2003); TORs for the                                             information law.
                    survey are agreed with
                    IDA.

                    A brochure on the code of
                    ethics and fight against
                    corruption in the public
                    sector to be elaborated by
                    the unit, adopted by the
                    Council of Ministers, and
                    published and disseminated.

                    Finalization of the Anti-
                    Corruption Unit's
                    procedures manual and
                    internal regulations.

                    Establishment of a follow-
                    up system to track
                    corruption cases that are
                    referred to the Unit and the
                    monthly publication of
                    statistics on its activities.

                    Data collection from survey
                    on corruption practices in
                    Haiti has been completed
                    and first draft report on said
                    survey has been completed.

E. Human Resource Management and Institutional capacity Building

                  Staffing and human           Technical and managerial      A new civil service law and a
                  resource management plan     personnel (including          law for the organization of the
                  for the successful           individuals from the Haitian  central administration were
                  implementation of the ICF    Diaspora) hired for the       enacted by decree in July 2005.
                  to be adapted by the         successful implementation of  A Coordination Unit was set up
                  Council of Ministers and     ICF.                          in the Prime Minister's Office
                  disseminated to the public;                                to oversee human resource
                  the plan will include new    Adequate training program     functions and promote
                  recruitment criteria and     being delivered to existing   implementation of the new civil
                  objectives as well as a      staff and managers.           service law. A census of
                  training program and                                       employment in selected
                  compensation incentives for                                ministries was completed. The
                  highly-skilled employees;                                  unit also drew up an action plan
                  the plan will also indicate                                for meeting short and medium
                  financing sources for its                                  term human resource needs. It
                  implementation; the action                                 also initiated contacts with
                  plan will indicate the                                     existing training institutes and  Satisfactory
                  institutional arrangements                                 with donors interested in
                  to be put in place to manage                               providing training to develop a
                  staffing and human                                         coordinated program aimed at
                  resource capacity building                                 meeting training needs. Civil
                  throughout the                                             service salaries were increased
                  Government.                                                by 30 percent in 2004 and 15%
                                                                             in early 2005 to partly
                  At least 200 technical and                                 compensate for the significant
                  managerial staff have been                                 erosion of salaries due to high
                  hired.                                                     inflation of previous years. The
                                                                             Government also managed to
                  At least 10% of technical                                  attract experts from the Haitian
                  staff out of the total have                                diaspora under an OAS funded
                  received training in local                                 program which helped address
                  training institutions.                                     some immediate skill needs in
                                                                             targeted positions. Recruitment
                                                                             and training programs have
                                                                             been conducted with priority on
                                                                             selected agencies (e.g., police,
                                                                             public accountants, newly
                                                                             created agencies such as the
                                                                             ULCC and CNMP, revenue
                                                                             collection agencies). In a
                                                                             significant effort to increase
                                                                             transparency, the FY2007
                                                                             budget included in an annex a
                                                                             fairly comprehensive list of
                                                                             Government employees with
                                                                             their respective remunerations.

F. Efficiency and Transparency in the management of Infrastructures and Public Enterprises.

                              FER Governance:               FER fully functional; key   Members of the FER Board and
                              Appointment of the FER        decisions of its Board made Director General were
                              Director General;             public.                     appointed, the list of roads
                              Appointment of members                                    whose maintenance is to be
                              of Board of Directors;        Road maintenance work       financed by FER was published,
                              Board is operational.         ongoing with private firms  budget allocations were made to
                                                            hired through competitive   ensure its functioning and the
                              FER Budget:                   bidding undertaking road    FER reached basic institutional
                                                            maintenance work.           capacity with the recruiting of
                              -FER operational                                          key staff and the definition of
                              expenditures (minimum of      Official statement on roads its operational procedures. Also,
                              G21m) allocated in the FY     eligible for FER financing. the first road maintenance
                              2004-05 budget. Opening                                   contract to be financed by FER
                              of a "FER account" at the                                 was awarded and the contract
                              Central Bank.                                             was signed in early 2006
                              -Board approval of                                        following a competitive bidding
                              projected budgets and                                     process and published on the
                              programs over three-year                                  MEF website. Since late 2005,
                              period;                                                   the Ministry of Economy and
                              -Monthly reports of tax                                   Finance also started transferring
  ER)F(                       agencies on tax revenues                                  to the FER budgetary resources
                              collected on behalf of FER.                               for road maintenance. Other
                                                                                        routine maintenance contracts
       Funde                  The FER is fully                                          to be financed by FER are under
                              operational and in particular                             preparation with the financial
                              the following actions have                                support of the EU. An IDA-
                              been implemented:                                         supported Transport and           Satisfactory
                                                                                        Territorial Development project
            Maintenanc        Eligible roads:                                           approved by the Board in late
                              -publication of MTPTC                                     FY2006 is building on and
                      Road    decision regarding roads                                  furthering the progress that has
                              eligible for FER financing.                               been achieved in this area.

                              FER Procedures:
                              -FER Board approval of
                              internal regulations;
                              -Board approval of model
                              conventions regarding FER
                              interventions.

                              Financial Control:
                              -Board approval of external
                              auditor.

                              FER Activities:
                              FER has awarded and
                              published its first road
                              maintenance contract
                              since its creation.

                                                                                                                                Letter of Prime Minister      Technical staff of CMEP in   The staff of the Conseil de
                                                                                                                                designating Conseil de        place in sectors for which   Modernisation des Entreprises
risesp                                                                                                                          Modernisation des             pre-audit or audit has been  Publiques (CMEP) was
                                                                                                                                Entreprises Publiques         launched in respective       strengthened to coordinate the
                                                                                                                                (CMEP) as the institution in  public enterprises.          audit firm selection and contract
      enter                                                                                                                     charge of coordinating the                                 preparation process. While
                                                                                                                                pre-audit, audit and          Monthly progress reports     monthly progress reports were
           public                                                                                                               management contract           shared with the Bank.        not prepared by the CMEP as
                 in                                                                                                             preparation process in the                                 planned, its representatives
                                                                                                                                public enterprises, building  Satisfactory progress in the participated regularly in EGRO
                                                                                                                                on existing multi-donor       public enterprise audit      monitoring review meetings and    Satisfactory
                   arationperp                                                                                                  technical coordination        process as detailed below.   provided regular information on
                                                                                                                                arrangements.                                              the audit hiring process as input
                                                                                                                                                                                           for the EGRO monitoring

                              ractt                                                                                             Technical staff hired or                                   matrix. Progress in the public
                                                                                                                                designated by CMEP to                                      enterprise audit process was
                                   con                                                                                          ensure monitoring,                                         satisfactory as explained below.
                                                                                                                                technical coordination and
                                                                                                                                technical interface with

                                      agement                                                                                   international donors in
                                                                                                                                connection with activities
                                             man                                                                                of pre-audit, audit, and
                                                                                                                                arrangement contract
                                                and                                                                             preparation in each public
                                                                                                                                enterprise.
                                                   audit,
                                                         t,                                                                     Monthly progress reports
                                                                                                                                prepared by CMEP
                                                                                                                                detailing status of work in
                                                           pre-audi                                                             each public enterprise.
                                                                   of                                                           Monthly reports will detail
                                                                     oni                                                        the status of financing
                                                                                                                                arrangements and
                                                                                                                                disbursement of funds for
                                                                                                                                pre-audit, audit, and
                                                                        coordinat                                               management contract
                                                                                                                                preparation; hiring of firms;
                                                                                                                                status of work.
                                                                                 Overall



                                                                                                                                Calls for bids have been      CAMEP financial,             Following a competitive
                                                                                        ility)tu                                launched to recruit           management and technical     bidding process,
                                                                                                                                international audit and       audits final or progress     the Government selected
                                                                                                ter                             management firms to           reports shared with the IDB  international firms to conduct
                                                                                                   wa                           conduct a financial audit of  and IDA.                     the financial audit,
                                                                                                                                CAMEP as well as a                                         administrative audit and
                                                                                                     rban                       management and technical      Assessment note by CMEP      technical review of CAMEP;
                                                                                                         (u                     audit in preparation for its  on audit process following   however, despite the
                                                                                                                                reform and management         report format agreed with    Government's best efforts, the    Satisfactory
                                                                                                           MEPAC                improvement program.          Bank.                        firm selected for the financial
                                                                                                                                                                                           audit decided subsequently not
                                                                                                                of              International audit and       Satisfactory follow-up       to sign the contract due to
                                                                                                                                technical review firms        actions taken on the         security concerns. The
                                                                                                                                selected for financial audit, recommendations of           Government is in the process of
                                                                                                                                management and technical      auditors.                    re-launching the bid. The
                                                                                                                                audit.                                                     administrative and technical
                                                                                                                  Management                                                               audits are expected to start
                                                                                                                                                                                           shortly.

                                                                              Calls for bids have been      Financial and management     Following a competitive
                                                                              launched to recruit           audits final or progress     bidding process,
                                                                              international audit firms to  reports shared with Bank.    the Government selected an
and                                                                           conduct the financial audit                                international audit firm to          Satisfactory
                                                                              of AAN and APN.               Assessment note by CMEP      conduct the financial audit of
   AN)A(y                                        NPA(y                                                      on audit process following   APN and the financial audit has
                                                                              International audit firms     report format agreed with    been completed. APN has
                                                                              have been competitively       Bank.                        prepared an action plan to
         orith                                                                selected and financial audits                              implement the audit's

              Aut                                     Authorit                of APN and AAN initiated.     Satisfactory follow-up       recommendations and is
                                                              rtoP                                          actions taken on the         implementing it.
                                                                                                            recommendations of

                 Airport                                                                                    auditors.                    The Government was not able
                                                                  onali                                                                  to proceed with the financial
                        onali                                          Nat                                                               audit of AAN because of lack of
                                                                                                                                         available donor funding. It has
                             Nat                                                                                                         reconfirmed its commitment to
                                                                                                                                         proceed with the audit as soon
                                                                                                                                         as financing is secured.

                                                                              Call for bid for selection of Accounting rehabilitation    The account rehabilitation is
                                                                              international firm has been   completed and good           completed. An international
                                                                              issued for accounting         financial accounting         audit firm was selected
                                                                              rehabilitation.               reestablished.               competitively for the financial
                                                                                                                                         audit and this has been recently
                                                                              Accounting rehabilitation     Assessment note by CMEP      completed. On July 20, 2005,
                                                                              of EDH is ongoing and has     on accounting rehabilitation the Government authorized the
                                                                              progressed satisfactorily as  and audit process following  launching of call for bids to
                                                                              per agreed work program.      report format agreed with    recruit an international firm to
                                                                                                            Bank.                        undertake an assessment of           Satisfactory
                                                                              International audit firm has                               environmental liabilities to pave
                                                                              been selected to conduct      First study leading to       the way for a Management
                                ricity)                                       financial audit of EDH.       management contract          Contract for EDH.
                                                                                                            launched, with consultant    Also, the Government, EDH,
                                       (Elect                                 The Government has            mission in the field.        and donor community signed a
                                                                              authorized the launching of                                Memorandum of Understanding

                                             EDH                              calls for bids to recruit an  Satisfactory follow-up on    in October 2005, committing all
                                                                              international firm to         audit reports and            parties to a series of measures to
                                                                              undertake an assessment of    recommendation of studies.   strengthen governance and
                                                                              environmental liabilities as                               increase the efficiency and
                                                                              the first of a series of                                   transparency of investments in
                                                                              studies that will lead to the                              the electricity sector. The
                                                                              preparation of the                                         Government is introducing a
                                                                              Management Contract of                                     mechanism for monitoring
                                                                              EDH.                                                       budgetary transfers to the
                                                                                                                                         electricity sector; it also plans to
                                                                                                                                         introduce a competitive bidding
                                                                                                                                         process for petroleum purchases
                                                                                                                                         for the sector.

                                                          Accounting rehabilitation      Accounting rehabilitation     The accounting rehabilitation of
                                                          of TELECO has been             completed and good            TELECO has been completed.
                                                          completed.                     financial accounting          Following a competitive
                                                                                         reestablished.                bidding process, the
                                                          International firm has been                                  Government selected an
                                                          selected to carry out          Assessment note by CMEP       international audit firm to
                                                          financial audit.               on accounting rehabilitation  conduct the financial audit of
                                                                                         and audit process following   TELECO, the audit has been
                                                          Decision made on option        report format agreed with     completed and an action plan is
                                                          for restructuring the sector,  Bank.                         being prepared to address audit
 mmunications)                                            taking into account inter                                    findings. Also, the Government
                                                          alia, the results of a sector- Completed sector-wide         prepared a Letter of Telecom      Satisfactory
              eleco
                   (T                                     wide review.                   review.                       Sector Policy reviewing the
                                                                                                                       current situation and future
                                                                                         Government decision on        prospects of the
                                                                                         restructuring of the sector   telecommunications sector and
                     TELECO                                                              made and shared with the      outlining its option for
                                                                                         Bank.                         restructuring of the sector.

                                                                                         Adequate follow-up on
                                                                                         recommendations of audit
                                                                                         and sector review.



G. Institutional arrangements for enhanced public-private partnerships and good governance in Education and
Health

                                                          Budgetary allocation made      Public transfers to at least In 2006, the Government
                                                          for the National Partnership   10 private schools that      drafted legislation for the
                                                          Office (with a minimum of      qualify within the           creation of the National
                                                          G3.5 m) in the FY2004-05       framework of the             Education Partnership Office
                                                          budget for Ministry of         Partnership and according    (NEPO) and the National
                                                          Education, Youth and           to budget parameters of      Partnership Fund (NPF) and has
                                                          Sports.                        FY04-05.                     submitted it to Parliament for
                                                                                                                      approval in early October 2006.
                           Governance                     Ministerial Decree adopted     Evaluation reports of        The NEPO is designed to
                                     or                   and published in the official  transfers prepared and       promote policy dialogue and
                                                          government gazette,            disseminated by the          operational coordination
                                       Sect               establishing the National      Partnership Office.          between the public and non-       Partially
                                                          Private/Public Partnership                                  public education sectors,         satisfactory
                                                          Office.                                                     including supervision and
                                                                                                                      evaluation of non-public
                                                          The Coordinator of the                                      schools by the State while the
                                           Educational    Partnership Office has been                                 companion NPF would provide
                                                          designated by the Minister                                  a public financing mechanism
                                                          of Education.                                               to help poor families pay for the
                                                                                                                      school fees of their children in
                                                                                                                      non-public schools.

                          Finalization of action plan   First contracts between    While the Government has
                          leading to Ministerial        micro-insurance            reiterated the importance of
                          Decree authorizing public     organizations and          promoting policy dialogue and
                          health facilities to enter    provincial public health   operational coordination        Unsatisfactory
                          health service provision      service providers signed.  between the public and non-
                          contracts with micro-                                    public health sectors, limited
                          insurance organizations and                              progress has been made in this
                          other public sector                                      area.
                          organizations.

                          Ministerial decree adopted
                          and disseminated in the
vernance                  major print media outlets
        Go                authorizing public health
                          agencies (including those
                          operating outside Port-Au-
          Sector          Prince) to sign health
                          service provision contracts
                          with micro-insurance
                Health    organizations and other
                          public sector organizations.

                          Written confirmation by
                          NGO charged with
                          monitoring this action that
                          the micro-insurance scheme
                          is operational as detailed in
                          the Decree.

H. Civil society Monitoring and Assessment o Economic Governance Reform



                        Coordinator for              All components of civil     The monitoring framework and
                        Communication and            society monitoring         indicators were jointly defined
                        Relations with civil society mechanism in place.        by civil society organizations
                        appointed by the Minister                               and government entities in April
                        of Economy and Finance.      Progress reports prepared  2005. The Consultative
                                                     by Civil Society           Committee was established in
                        Decision on the modules      Organizations and          June 2005 and through a
                        of the economic              Executive Secretariat and  competitive process ECOSOF
                        governance program to be     published by the Executive was hired as the Executive       Satisfactory
                        monitored by civil society   Secretariat.               Secretariat in November 2005.
                        made, and information is                                The Consultative Committee
                        published in local papers    Adequate government        has been discussing
                        by Ministry of economy       follow-up on the           progress made in the setting up
                        and Finance.                 recommendations from civil of the monitoring mechanism
                                                     society organizations.     with the MEF on a regular
                        TORs for the Consultative                               basis. The summary of the
                        Committee and Executive                                 civil society organizations'
                        Secretariat approved by                                 monitoring reports has been
                        Minister of Economy and                                 published on the MEF website.
                        Finance (TORs will
                        include responsibility of
                        the Executive Secretariat
                        to publish the reports
                        prepared by civil society
                        organizations charged
                        with monitoring of
                        economic governance
                        program).

                        Executive Secretariat has
                        been hired through a
                        competitive process.

                        Timely provision of
                        information requested by
                        civil society organizations
                        (which would have been
                        competitively selected by
                        Executive Secretariat) in
                        charge of the monitoring
                        of specific modules of the
                        economic governance
                        program.

                        Monthly discussions of
                        monitoring results by
                        Government, Executive
                        Secretariat and civil
                        society organizations
                        selected for monitoring of
                        economic governance
                        program.

I. Communication and Outreach on Economic Governance

                     TORs for professional        Economic Governance         The Ministry of Economy and
                     communications firm to       Thematic Report broadly     Finance appointed a civil
                     facilitate the design and    distributed by MEF.         society and communication
                     implementation of a                                      coordinator, and prepared a
                     communication program        Regular press briefings,    draft communication strategy.
                     are approved by Minister of  interviews, and written     The Government prepared a
                     Economy and Finance.         articles by MEF in local    proposal for a LICUS grant to
                                                  media on key aspects of     finance the implementation of    Satisfactory
                                                  Government's economic       the strategy (which was
                     Competitive bid for hiring   governance program.         approved and is ongoing). Also,
                     the communications firm is                               the Minister of Economy and
                     launched in local papers.    Internal communications     Finance held press briefings and
                                                  activities (e.g. workshop,  interviews and articles on
                     Distribution of economic     internal memos) organized   economic governance themes
                     governance thematic report   aimed at public sector      were published to raise
                     of ICF in Creole and French  agencies.                   awareness about the governance
                     (to targeted groups).                                    reform program; it circulated
                                                  Improved public             the ICF in French and Creole
                     Satisfactory implementation  understanding of economic   and the economic governance
                     of communication strategy    governance issues.          thematic report; and the
                     on economic governance                                   Ministry's website is now
                     reforms as evidenced by                                  updated more regularly and its
                     civil society monitoring                                 users have increased in
                     report. The strategy will                                numbers. Workshops were also
                     cover: (1) an internal                                   held on selected issues (anti-
                     communication program                                    corruption, procurement
                     aimed at public sector                                   procedures, etc.).
                     agencies and institutions
                     involved in the reform
                     program; and (2) a mass
                     media strategy which
                     encompasses the definition
                     of the target groups, the
                     geographical coverage, and
                     the communications media
                     (such as interim bulletins,
                     print media, brochures,
                     fliers, radio, TV and the
                     web).

9.2 Table A2  Haiti Economic Governance Reforms Supported by EGRO,
2004-2005 (Critical actions are in bold)



-
 Policy Area    Reform Objectives            Program Actions         Program Actions
                                             Expected to be Taken    Expected to be Taken
                                             by December 2004        by May 2005
 A.             Continue to maintain a sound Sound                   Sound
 Macroeconomic  macroeconomic framework      macroeconomic           macroeconomic
 Framework      as evidenced for example by  framework               framework
                continued successful         maintained as           maintained as
                implementation of a          evidenced for example   evidenced for
                macroeconomic stabilization  by the successful       example by continued
                program supported by         implementation of the   successful
                follow-on IMF assistance.    Government's            implementation of the
                                             macroeconomic           Government's
                                             stabilization program   macroeconomic
                                             supported by the        stabilization program
                                             IMF.                    supported by the
                                                                     IMF.




 B. Budget
 Management and
 Financial
 Controls
                Budget Preparation and
                Execution

                Strengthen the role of the   Budget for fiscal year  Satisfactory execution
                Budget as an instrument of   2004-05 adopted by      of the FY 2004-05
                efficient and transparent    the Council of          approved budget in
                management of public         Ministers before        accordance with its
                expenditures.                beginning of the fiscal objectives and
                                             year on October 1.      approved allocations.
                Improve public information   Budget should
                on budgetary allocation and  incorporate key         Key budget execution
                expenditure disbursements.   objectives as indicates data widely
                                             in the four pillars of  disseminated to the
                                             the ICF, particularly   local media.
                                             those related to
                                             economic governance
                                             program and the
                                             objectives of the
                                             macroeconomic
                                             stabilization program.
                                             Civil society and
                                             donors consulted
                                             during budget
                                             preparation.

                                Approved budget has
                                been widely
                                disseminated in the
                                country through the
                                official gazette and
                                leaflets.

Public Investment Program
(PIP)


Rationalize the organization,   The investment           Identified additional
execution, evaluation and       program for FY2004-      human resources for
monitoring of public sector     05, satisfactory to the  the investment
investment program through      World Bank, is           expenditure
the reinforcement of the        consistent with the      programming and
institutional capacities of the framework and            monitoring are posted
MPCE and of the                 objectives of the        at the MPCE and in the
programming units of key        national budget          programming units of
sectoral Ministries as well as  approved in September    key sectoral Ministries
through the creation of a       2004, and links          (Health, Education,
coordination mechanism          Government               Agriculture, Public
between the MPCE, the MEF       investment spending      Works).
and the Office of the Prime     with projected donor
Minister.                       disbursements within     FY 2005-06
                                the framework of the     investment program
                                ICF                      prepared taking into
                                                         account the needs
                                Identification of human  expressed by civil
                                resource needs for       society and potential
                                investment expenditure   beneficiaries during
                                programming and          consultation
                                monitoring in the        workshops and a
                                MPCE and in the          national forum with
                                programming units of     civil society
                                key sector Ministries    participation.
                                (Health, Education,
                                Agriculture and Public
                                Works); provision of
                                resources to cover these
                                needs included in the
                                institutional capacity
                                building components of
                                sectoral ministries'
                                investment programs.

Monitoring of Poverty-
related expenditures

Define a framework for          Adoption by MEF and      Choice of option in
monitoring the impact of        the MPCE of a            terms of the SYSDEP
public sector budget and        timetable for the        does reflect the need
programs on poverty in order    gradual implementation   for information on
to ensure that public           of a poverty reduction   monitoring poverty-
expenditures are targeted       public expenditure       related public

toward the reduction of        programming and          expenditures.
poverty and the promotion of   monitoring system.
economic growth.
                               Dissemination of
                               timetable on steps to be
                               taken toward the
                               monitoring of poverty-
                               reducing expenditures.
Comptes Courants

Reinforce the transparency     Non-salary current       No more than 10% of
and control of public          public expenditures      cumulative non-
expenditures with the          disbursed through        salary current
objective of reducing to the   comptes courants not     expenditures since
barest minimum the             exceeding 15% for the    beginning of FY
percentage of expenditures     period July-             2004-05 disbursed
that are channeled through     September 2004 and       through comptes
agencies discretionary         10% for the month of     courants.
accounts, thanks to increased  September 2004.
efforts to drastically reduce                           Information on use of
and stringently regulate their Information on use of    comptes courants in
use.                           comptes courants in      FY 2004-05 regularly
                               past fiscal year widely  disseminated through
                               disseminated.            the population as part
                                                        of budget information
                               Criteria for use of      dissemination.
                               comptes courants
                               adopted by GoH and
                               disseminates to all      Monthly production of
                               public sector spending   statistical data on the
                               agencies through a       use of comptes
                               letter of Minister of    courants per spending
                               Economy and Finance      agency and per account
                               to the authorizing       number, specifying the
                               officers.                object of the advance
                                                        made on each comptes
                                                        courant; the
                                                        information produced
                                                        for each month is
                                                        shared with IDA
                                                        before the 15th of the
                                                        following month.


Financial control

Enhance transparency and       Adoption by the          Approval and
financial accountability by    Council of Ministers     publication of new
applying the legal control     and publication of the   decree modifying the
provisions as specified in the Arrt portent           1983 decree on the
Organic Budget Law in order    rglement gnral de     organization and
to create an environment       Comptabilit Publique    functioning of the
conducive to efficient ex-ante (public accounting       CSCCA, consistent
and ex-post control of public  implementation           with the new Loi
expenditures.                  regulation) in the       Organique on the
                               official gazette.        preparation and

                                  execution of Budget
                                  Laws, and
                                  satisfactory to IDA.

                                  Recruitment and
                                  posting of public
                                  accountants and
                                  financial comptrollers
                                  for at least the
                                  Ministries of Public
                                  Works, Health,
                                  Education, Interior,
                                  Internal revenue
                                  Department and the
                                  respective Offices of
                                  the President and the
                                  Prime Minister.

                                  Adoption by Minister
                                  of Economy and
                                  Finance of statutes on
                                  public accountants and
                                  financial comptrollers.


                                  Adoption by Minister
                                  of Economy and
                                  Finance, and
                                  publication of the
                                  Decree authorizing the
                                  establishment of the
                                  Office of Public
                                  Finance Inspection
                                  (Inspection Gnrale
                                  des Finances).

                                  Satisfactory progress
                                  in the implementation
                                  of the CSCCA training
                                  program; adoption of
                                  the new organization
                                  chart of the CSCCA
                                  and filling of key
                                  posts.

                                  Finalization of the
                                  audit report for FY
                                  2001-02; preparation
                                  of FY 2002-03 audit
                                  started.

Automated System for
budget Information and
Management
                                  Internal review of
On the basis of the evaluation    SYSDEP (including

               and adaptability of SYSDEP                             comparison with other
               for the medium and long                                countries) and analysis
               term, make a decision                                  of options, as well as
               regarding its expansion or its                         decision of Minister of
               replacement with a system                              Economy and Finance
               that is more adapted to the                            regarding its expansion
               current constraints and future                         or its replacement with
               needs, and implement the                               a system that is more
               selected option.                                       adapted to the current
                                                                      constraints and future
                                                                      needs.

C. Public      Improve in the short-tern,     Adoption by Council     Competitive
Procurement    transparency and efficiency    of Ministers of a       recruitment of
               in the public sector           decree, satisfactory to members of the
               procurement process through    IDA, for the            CNMP completed;
               the creation of an Interim     establishment of the    international
               National Procurement Board     CNMP (decree also       procurement
               (CNMP).                        establishes procedure   consultant/s hired;
                                              for defining threshold  standard bidding
               Strengthen the capacity of     of procurement          documents adopted;
               public and private sector      contracts to be         systematic
               agents and officials involved  reviewed by CNMP        dissemination on the
               in public procurement.         and reaffirms that      Internet and/or local
                                              public bids are the     newspapers of the
               Design an institutional        norm). Appointment      results of tendered
               framework for a long-term      of Coordinator of       bids since December
               reform that includes           CNMP. Preparation       2004; creation of
               decentralized public           of the TORs             database of
               procurement                    satisfactory to IDA     Government
                                              for members of          suppliers available to
                                              CNMP.                   the public through
                                                                      CNMP.
                                              Broad dissemination of
                                              the new decree to all
                                              entities involved in
                                              public procurement and
                                              to the larger
                                              population.

D. Anti-       Creation of an Anti-           Adoption by the         A brochure on the code
Corruption     Corruption Unit charged with   Council of Ministers    of ethics and fight
Initiatives    corruption prevention,         of the ministerial      against corruption in
               information, dissemination,    decree authorizing the  the public sector to be
               corruption awareness and       creation of an Anti-    elaborated by the unit,
               administrative investigation.  Corruption Unit as an   adopted by the Council
               In the medium term, the        autonomous entity       of Ministers, and
               mandate of such a unit could   under the Ministry of   published and
               be expanded upon review and    Economy and             disseminated.
               approval of Parliament.        Finance; finalization
                                              of the TORs for the     Finalization of the
                                              Unit; appointment of    Anti-Corruption Unit's
                                              the Unit's Director     procedures manual and
                                              general and key         internal regulations.
                                              personnel in place.
                                                                      Establishment of a

                                                 Publication of the       follow-up system to
                                                 Decree in the official   track corruption cases
                                                 gazette and              that are referred to the
                                                 dissemination to the     Unit and the monthly
                                                 public at large for      publication of statistics
                                                 example during a         on its activities.
                                                 press conference.
                                                                          Data collection from
                                                 Letter sent to IDA       survey on corruption
                                                 requesting               practices in Haiti has
                                                 partnership in           been completed and
                                                 preparing a              first draft report on
                                                 comprehensive            said survey has been
                                                 diagnostic survey on     completed.
                                                 corruption practices
                                                 in Haiti (to
                                                 complement and
                                                 deepen the earlier
                                                 study undertaken by
                                                 Heritage Foundation
                                                  Haiti in 2003);
                                                 TORs for the survey
                                                 are agreed with IDA.

E. Human          For the efficient              Staffing and human       At least 200 technical
Resource          implementation of the ICF,     resource management      and managerial staff
Management and    design and implement an        plan for the successful  have been hired.
Institutional     efficient human resource       implementation of the
capacity Building management strategy as well    ICF to be adopted by     At least 10% of
                  as an action plan to develop   the Council of           technical staff out of
                  institutional capacity.        Ministers and            the total have received
                                                 disseminated to the      training in local
                  Attract and retain highly      public; the plan will    training institutions.
                  qualified senior technical and include new
                  management public sector       recruitment criteria and
                  personnel, and reduce the      objectives as well as a
                  high turnover rate.            training program and
                                                 compensation
                  Design and embark on           incentives for highly-
                  nationwide consultations to    skilled employees; the
                  develop a framework for a      plan will also indicate
                  long-term civil service        financing sources for
                  reform.                        its implementation; the
                                                 action plan will
                                                 indicate the
                                                 institutional
                                                 arrangements to be put
                                                 in place to manage
                                                 staffing and human
                                                 resource capacity
                                                 building throughout the
                                                 Government.


F. Efficiency and Road Maintenance Fund          FER Governance:          The FER is fully
Transparency in   (FER)                          Appointment of the       operational and in

the management                                     FER Director             particular the
of Infrastructures The FER is fully operational    General;                 following actions have
and Public         and becomes an effective and    Appointment of           been implemented:
Enterprises.       sustainable mechanism for       members of Board of
                   ensuring the maintenance of     Directors; Board is      Eligible roads:
                   Haiti's roadways. This is a     operational.             -publication of
                   necessary condition to ensure                            MTPTC decision
                   that Haitian transport          FER Budget:              regarding roads
                   infrastructure rehabilitation   FER operational          eligible for FER
                   be realized at the national     expenditures (minimum    financing.
                   level in a sustainable fashion. of G21m) allocated in
                                                   the FY 2004-05 budget.   FER Procedures:
                                                   Opening of a "FER        -FER Board approval
                                                   account" at the Central  of internal regulations;
                                                   Bank.                    -Board approval of
                                                                            model conventions
                                                                            regarding FER
                                                                            interventions.

                                                                            Financial Control:
                                                                            - Board approval of
                                                                            external auditor.

                                                                            FER Budget:
                                                                            -Board approval of
                                                                            projected budgets and
                                                                            programs over a three-
                                                                            year period;
                                                                            -Monthly reports of tax
                                                                            agencies on tax
                                                                            revenues collected on
                                                                            behalf of FER.

                                                                            FER Activities:
                                                                            FER has awarded
                                                                            and published its first
                                                                            road maintenance
                                                                            contract since its
                                                                            creation.

                   Overall coordination of         Letter of Prime          Technical staff hired or
                   pre-audit, audit, and           Minister designating     designated by CMEP
                   management contract             Conseil de               to ensure monitoring,
                   preparation in public           Modernisation des        technical coordination
                   enterprises                     Entreprises Publiques    and technical interface
                                                   (CMEP) as the            with international
                                                   institution in charge of donors in connection
                                                   coordinating the pre-    with activities of pre-
                                                   audit, audit and         audit, audit, and
                                                   management contract      management contract
                                                   preparation process in   preparation in each
                                                   the public enterprises,  public enterprise.
                                                   building on existing
                                                   multi-agency and         Monthly progress
                                                   multi-donor technical    reports prepared by
                                                   coordination             CMEP detailing status

                                arrangements.           of work in each public
                                                        enterprise. Monthly
                                                        reports will detail the
                                                        status of financing
                                                        arrangements and
                                                        disbursement of funds
                                                        for pre-audit, audit,
                                                        and management
                                                        contract preparation;
                                                        hiring of firms; status
                                                        of work.

Management of CAMEP             Calls for bids have     International audit and
(urban water utility)           been launched to        technical review firms
                                recruit international   selected for financial
Enhance transparency in the     audit and management    audit, management and
management of CAMEP             firms to conduct a      technical audit.
through financial and           financial audit of
management audits.              CAMEP as well as a
                                management and
Strengthen CAMEP's              technical audit in
governance, notably through     preparation for its
the reactivation of CAMEP's     reform and
Board of Directors.             management
                                improvement program.


National Airport Authority      Calls for bids have     International audit
(AAN) and National Port         been launched to        firms have been
Authority (APN)                 recruit international   competitively selected
                                audit firms to conduct  and financial audits of
Improve the governance and      the financial audit of  APN and AAN
management of ports and         AAN and APN.            initiated.
airports, modernizing them
and upgrading them to
comply with international
security norms as well as
deliver quality, competitive
services to users.
EDH (Electricity)                                       Accounting
                                                        rehabilitation of EDH
Promote transparency in         Call for bid for        is ongoing and has
EDH by conducting an            selection of            progressed
accounting rehabilitation and   international firm has  satisfactorily as per
a financial audit aimed at      been issued for         agreed work program.
preparing it for increased      accounting
private sector participation in rehabilitation.         International audit firm
its management and ensure                               has been selected to
its technical and financial                             conduct financial audit
viability.                                              of EDH.

Strengthen the regulatory                               The Government has
framework and the regulatory                            authorized the
role of the state.                                      launching of calls for
                                                        bids to recruit an
                                                        international firm to

                                                                             undertake an
                                                                             assessment of
                                                                             environmental
                                                                             liabilities as the first of
                                                                             a series of studies that
                                                                             will lead to the
                                                                             preparation of the
                                                                             Management Contract
                                                                             of EDH.




                  TELECO
                  (Telecommunications)

                  Promote transparency in         Accounting                 International firm has
                  TELECO by conducting an         rehabilitation of          been selected to carry
                  accounting rehabilitation and   TELECO has been            out financial audit.
                  a financial audit aimed at      completed.
                  preparing it for increased                                 Decision made on
                  private sector participation in                            option for restructuring
                  its management and ensure                                  the sector, taking into
                  its technical and financial                                account inter alia, the
                  viability.                                                 results of a sector-wide
                                                                             review.
                  Strengthen the regulatory
                  framework and the regulatory
                  role of the state.
G. Institutional  Educational Sector
arrangements for  Governance
enhanced public-
private           Establishment of a              Budgetary allocation       Ministerial Decree
partnerships and  Private/Public Partnership      made for the National      adopted and published
good governance   Office to improve the quality   Partnership Office         in the official
in Education and  and equity of primary           (with a minimum of         government gazette,
Health            education and strengthen the    G3.5 m) in the             establishing the
                  mechanisms for public           FY2004-05 budget for       National Private/Public
                  subsidization of private        Ministry of Education,     Partnership Office.
                  school and education            Youth and Sports.
                  institutions in poor                                       The Coordinator of the
                  communities, reducing the                                  Partnership Office has
                  cost of schooling for poor                                 been designated by the
                  families and enhancing                                     Minister of Education.
                  transparency in the subsidy
                  and transfer mechanism.
                  Health Sector Governance

                  Authorize public health         Finalization of action     Ministerial decree
                  agencies (including those       plan leading to            adopted and
                  functioning outside Port-Au-    ministerial Decree         disseminated in the
                  Prince) to sign service         authorizing public         major print media
                  provision contracts through     health facilities to enter outlets authorizing
                  micro-insurance agencies,       health service provision   public health agencies
                  while defining the legal and    contracts with micro-      (including those
                  regulatory framework and        insurance organizations    operating outside Port-
                  reinforcing the contract        and other public sector    Au-Prince) to sign

                  regulating capacity of the     organizations.        health service
                  Ministry of Health.                                  provision contracts
                                                                       with micro-insurance
                                                                       organizations and other
                                                                       public sector
                                                                       organizations.

                                                                       Written confirmation
                                                                       by NGO charged with
                                                                       monitoring this action
                                                                       that the micro-
                                                                       insurance scheme is
                                                                       operational as detailed
                                                                       in the decree.




H. Civil society  Establish a Monitoring Group  Coordinator for        Executive Secretariat
Monitoring and    made up of groups and         Communication and      has been hired
Assessment of     individuals who represent     Relations with Civil   through a competitive
Economic          various sectors of Haitian    Society appointed by   process.
Governance        civil society; the group will the Minister of
Reforms           be attached to the MEF. This  Economy and            Timely provision of
                  group will have the task of   Finance.               information
                  monitoring and evaluating                            requested by civil
                  the implementation of         Decision on the        society organizations
                  economic governance           modules of the         (which would have
                  reforms, including FY04-05    economic governance    been competitively
                  budget execution, and         program to be          selected by Executive
                  contributing to the           monitored by civil     Secretariat) in charge
                  elaboration of the FY05-06    society made, and      of the monitoring of
                  budget.                       information is         specific modules of
                                                published in local     the economic
                  Reinforcing civil society     papers by Ministry of  governance program.
                  capacity in the use of        economy and Finance.
                  methodologies for the                                Monthly discussions
                  monitoring and evaluation of  TORs for the           of monitoring results
                  economic governance           Consultative           by Government,
                  reforms.                      Committee and          Executive secretariat
                                                Executive Secretariat  and civil society
                  Enhance transparency and      approved by Minister   organizations selected
                  facilitate public access to   of Economy and         for monitoring of
                  information on public         Finance (TORs will     economic governance
                  expenditure management        include responsibility program.
                  through the print and         of the Executive
                  electronic media as well as   Secretariat to publish
                  build the capacity of civil   the reports prepared
                  society and the mass media to by civil society
                  analyze and disseminate       organizations charged
                  budget data and public        with monitoring of
                  expenditure management        economic governance
                  information.                  program).

I.              Increase the population's   TORs for professional    Satisfactory
Communication   understanding and support   communications firm      implementation of
and Outreach on for reforms pursued in the  to facilitate the design communication
Economic        economic governance         and implementation of    strategy on economic
Governance      program.                    a communication          governance reforms as
Reform                                      program are approved     evidenced by civil
                                            by minister of           society monitoring
                                            Economy and Finance.     report. The strategy
                                                                     will cover: (1) an
                                            Competitive bid for      internal
                                            hiring the               communication
                                            communications firm is   program aimed at
                                            launched in local        public sector agencies
                                            papers.                  and institutions
                                                                     involved in the reform
                                            Distribution of          program; and (2) a
                                            economic governance      mass media strategy
                                            thematic report of ICF   which encompass the
                                            in Creole and French     definition of the target
                                            (to target groups).      groups, the
                                                                     geographical coverage,
                                                                     and the
                                                                     communications media
                                                                     (such as interim
                                                                     bulletins, print media,
                                                                     brochures, fliers, radio,
                                                                     TV and the web).


