                                                 Documentof
                                            THE WORLD BANK


                                       FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                        Report No. 30882-HT



                                         PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                    OF THE

                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                  TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

                                                       ON

                               A PROPOSEDADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                             INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.3 MILLION
                                  (US$36.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                       AND

                                A PROPOSEDADJUSTMENT GRANT
                             INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.4 MILLION
                                  (US$24.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                                       FOR

                    AN ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORM OPERATION



                                              December 10,2004



Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department (LCSPR)
Caribbean Country Management Unit (LCC3C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR)

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                REPUBLICOF HAITI
              ECONOMIC GOVERNANCEREFORM OPERATION




                          CURRENCYAND EXCHANGERATES
                             US$1= HG$37 (as of 12/6/04)



                                     FISCALYEAR
                                October 1 - September 30


                           ABBREVIATIONSANDACRONYMS

AAN       AutoritC ACroportuaire Nationale (National Airport Authority)
APN       Autorite`PortuaireNationale(National PortAuthority)
BRH       Banquede la RCpubliqued'Hai'ti (Bank of the Republic of Haiti))
CAE       Country Assistance Evaluation
CAMEP     Centrale Autonome MCtropolitained'Eau Potable (Metropolitan Water Authority)
CEP       ConseilElectoral Provisoire(ProvisionalElectoralCouncil)
CMEP      Conseil de Modernisationdes EntreprisesPubliques(Council for the Modernization of Public
          Enterprises)
CNIMP     CommissionNational IntCrimairedes MarchCs Publics
CNMP      CommissionNationaledes MarchCsPublics (National Commissionfor Public Procurement)
CPAR      Country ProcurementAssessmentReport
CSCCA     Cour SupCrieuredes Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (Supreme Audit Institution)
cso       Civil Society Organization
EDH       ElectricitCd'Hai'ti (National Electricity Company)
EERC      Emergency EconomicRecoveryCredit
EGRO      Economic GovernanceReform Operation
ERC       Economic RecoveryCredit
EU        European Union
FER       Fondsd'Entretien Routier (RoadMaintenanceFund)
FONHEP    FondationHai'tienne de I'EnseignementPrivC (Haitian Foundationfor PrivateEducation)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNI       Gross National Income
ICF       InterimCooperationFramework
IDA       InternationalDevelopment Association
IDB       Inter American Development Bank
IFMS      IntegratedFinancial Management System
IMF       InternationalMonetary Fund
MDG       Millennium Development Goals
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MENJS     Ministkre de I'Education Nationale, de la Jeunesseet des Sports (Ministry of National
          Education, Youth and Sports)
MINUSTAH  UNMission for the Stabilization of Haiti
MPCE      Ministhe de la Planification et de la Coopiration Externe(Ministry of Planning, and External
          Cooperation
MSPP      Ministkre de la SantC Publiqueet de la Population(Ministry of Public Health and Population)
NGO       Non GovernmentalOrganization
OAS       Organizationof American States
OED       OperationEvaluation Department
PNH       Police Nationaled'Hai'ti (Haitian National Police)
PRSP      Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
SME       Small and MediumEnterprises
SNP       Staff Monitored Program
TELECO    Telecommunications utility

                                           i

                                                                   FOROFFICTAL USEONLY



        TI               Transparency International
        TOR              Terms of Reference
         TSS             Transitional Support Strategy
         UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
         USAID           United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
        WBI              World Bank Institute




                 Vice President:              David de Ferranti
                 Country Director:            Caroline Anstey
                 Sector Director:             Ernest0May
                 Sector Manager:              Mauricio Carrizosa
                 Sector Leader:               Antonella Bassani
                 Task Team Leader:            Auguste KouamC




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may n o t be otherwise disclosed
[without W o r l d Bank authorization.                                            I


                                     Table of Contents


PROGRAM DOCUMENTSUMMARY             ............................................................................................         IV

PROGRAM  DOCUMENT  ..............................................................................................................          1
PARTI.    BACKGROUND RATIONALE..........................................................................
                           AND                                                                                                            2
  1.        THEPOLITICAL TRANSITION:                     A WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY FOR LASTING
            REFORM   ........................................................................................................... 3
  2.        RECENTECONOMIC               DEVELOPMENTS                  .................................................               ....4
  3.        RECENT   SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTS                       ....................................................................        5
  4.        GOVERNMENT'S           RESPONSETO THE CRISIS                       ...................................................... 6
PART I1.  HAITI'SSTRUCTURAL CHALLENGES................ ..............................................                                      7
PART 111. THETRANSITIONALGOVERNMENT'S REFORM                                      PROGRAM AS DETAILED INTHE
          ICF......      .....................................................................................                     .......14
PARTIV.   THEPROPOSED        OPERATION ..............................................................................                     19
    A.      OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                    .......................................................................         19
    B.      RATIONALE.....................................................................................................                23
    C.      TRANCHE    CONDITIONS AND BENCHMARKS                             ...................................................... 26
    D.      IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                                        ............28
    E.      ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIALISSUES .............................................................
                                    AND                                                                                                   28
    F.      FIDUCIARYARRANGEMENTS                    ...........................................................................          29
    G.      GOVERNMENTAND              NATIONAL OWNERSHIP                    ....................           ..........................    30
    H.      BENEFITS.......................................................................................................               31
    I.      RISKSAND RISK MITIGATION ...........                                                             .........................    31



ANNEX 1:    HAITIATA GLANCE.....................................................................................                          36

ANNEX2:     HAITI. MACROECONOMIC
                     KEY                                       INDICATORS              ..............................................     38

ANNEX3:     HAITI. EXPOSURE
                     KEY                         INDICATORS 39          ...........................................................

ANNEX 4 :   HAITI. FOR KEY PR~CESS~NG
                     TIMETABLE                                                    EVENTS         ....................................     40

ANNEX5:     HAITI. RELA~ONS
                     IMF                          ...............................................................................         41

ANNEX 6 :   LE'ITER DEVELOPMENT
                     OF                               POLICYAND POLICYMATRIX...........................                                   43

ANNEX7:     KEY BUDGET ALLOCATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTINGECONOMIC
            GOVERNANCE          MEASURES             SUPPORTED BY THE EGRO                           .................................    84




                                                       ...
                                                      111


                              REPUBLIC OF HAITI

             ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORMOPERATION

                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT SUMMARY


Borrower:                     The Republic of Haiti.

Amount:                       SDR 40.7 million (US$61 million equivalent) consisting of a
                              credit of SDR 24.3 million (US$ 36.5 million equivalent)
                              and a Grant of SDR 16.4 million (US$ 24.5 million
                              equivalent).

Terms:                        IDA credit terms and IDA grant terms.

ImplementingAgency:           Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).

Objectives:                   Weaknesses in economic governance represent one of the
                              most serious obstacles to economic growth and poverty
                              reduction in Haiti.    The proposed operation will support
                              critical economic governance reforms identified by the
                              Transitional    Government     in the    Interim Cooperation
                              Framework (ICF) and will help improve the policy
                              environment for increased Bank and other donor-supported
                               investment lending in key sectors.            Specifically, the
                               proposed operation will support Government's efforts to
                               adopt measures that will increase the transparency and
                               efficiency in the use of public resources and external
                               assistance with the increasing participation of the private
                               sector and civil society in decision-making and the provision
                               of services. It i s thus a key component of the Bank's
                               program of re-engagement in Haiti as described in the
                               companion Transitional Support Strategy (TSS). Technical
                               assistance for    the   implementation of the         economic
                               governance reform supported by the EGRO will be provided
                               by the World Bank through a recently approved LICUS
                               grant (US$1.5 million) and a technical assistance IDA
                               project currently under preparation.

 Description:                  The EGRO supports reform measures in the following main
                               areas:

 (a) Fiscal management, budget processes and financial control. The Government plans to
                                increase the capacity of public sector institutions involved in
                                budget execution so as to improve and speed up the regular
                                fund request and release process during budget execution.
                                This will allow the Authorities to credibly pursue another
                                important objective, namely permanently reducing the use o f
                                ministerial discretionary accounts, tightening the rules for
                                their use and enforcing those rules. In parallel with
                                improvements in the capacity of budgetary institutions, it i s
                                           i v

                              critical to put in place the steps required to tighten financial
                              controls in the public sector. This will involve increasingthe
                              presence of public accountants in spending ministries, the
                              creation of the corps of financial controllers, the tightening
                              of accountability of government authorizing officers, and the
                              restructuring    of the     supreme    audit   institution.  The
                              Government also plans to lay the foundation for a better
                              budget preparation, integration of the capital and current
                              expenditure budgets and a closer monitoring of the poverty
                              impact of public expenditures in the medium to long term.
                              The Government will also improve public information on
                              budget allocation, execution and accounting.

(b) Public Sector Procurement. The Authorities have prepared a reform of public sector
                              procurement aimed at reducing mis-procurement, waste of
                              public resources through inefficient contracts, and missed
                              opportunity for ensuring that public expenditure make a
                              difference for the intended beneficiaries. The critical steps in
                              this component of the economic governance program is to
                              establish a national interim procurement commission, staff it,
                              and support it with adequate technical assistance so as to
                              create capacity for sound procurement decisions in the short
                              term, build procurement capacity in sectoral ministries and
                              lay the ground work for a longer term reform of the
                              legislative framework for procurement.

(c) Anti-corruption strategy. In line with their objective to improve the use of public
                              resources, the authorities are undertaking measures to fight
                              corruption within the public sector. The key steps include
                               the creation, for the first time in the country's recent history,
                               of an anti-corruption unit in the Government. The Unit was
                               inaugurated on September 30, 2004. In the initial stages, the
                               Head of the unit (whose appointment has been formalized by
                               written presidential decision) will report to the Minister of
                               Finance. Additional steps include the staffing of the unit
                               (two top managers already appointed) on a competitive basis
                               and the completion of a comprehensive diagnostic survey
                               with the assistance of the World Bank Institute as part of an
                               effort to develop a detailed, national anti-corruption strategy.

(d) Human resource management. After many years of depletion of the capacity of the civil
                               service, the successful implementation o f the Government's
                               Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF) will require the
                               strengthening of the capacity of institutions involved. This
                               will entail new hires for critical policy planning and
                               execution positions (the cost of new hires will need to be
                               consistent with macroeconomic sustainability),          sustained
                               training of existing staff and improvement of the working
                               conditions including management and coaching methods.
                               The authorities will soon approve a comprehensive human
                               resource development plan. The plan will go beyond the
                                immediate needs of the implementation of the ICF and lay
                                the foundations for the development of a medium-term civil
                                service reform program.

(e) Efficiency and transparency in the management of public enterurises and road
                               maintenance. Public enterprises have represented a burden
                               on public finances or at the minimumhave failed to provide
                               reliable services. They have not played a positive role in
                               stimulating private investment and supporting economic
                               growth. One of the main causes for this poor outcome has
                               been the lack of transparency and accountability in their
                               management. The authorities plan to address the issue of
                               public enterprises by creating a culture of audit in the five
                               major public enterprises and by taking steps to open up their
                               management to the private sector or at a minimum look into
                               restructuring the existing organizational and managerial set
                               up. The authorities are also determined to address the
                               perennial problem of poor road maintenance, lost economic
                               opportunities due to lack of roads, and high transport and
                               vehicle maintenance costs due to poor road conditions. The
                               road maintenance fund, created by decree in 2003 was
                               recently activated and its Director General appointed. The
                               Board of the Road Maintenance Fund has also been
                               established. The Authorities are committed to ensuring that
                               the FER is quickly operational. Its first road maintenance
                               contract i s expected to be signed by April 2005.

(f) Public-private partnership and povernance in the education and health sectors. After
                               many years of lack o f attention to sound sector social
                               policies and given the limited public sector resources, the
                               private sector (including NGOs) has increasingly played a
                               key role in providing basic education and health services.
                                Rather than attempting to reclaim for the public sector a role
                                that it cannot fulfill satisfactorily for lack of resources and
                                capacity, the Authorities have decided to strengthen the
                                partnership between the public sector and private providers
                                while strengthening the regulatory capacity of the public
                                sector. This entails improving transfers to private schools
                                based on transparent         criteria and an accountability
                                mechanism, and allowing public health facilities to sign
                                services agreements with private health insurance agencies
                                especially outside the capital city.

 (g) Civil society monitoring of economic governance reforms and enhanced public
                                information system. A new feature of economic governance
                                in Haiti is the creation of a mechanism that will allow civil
                                society   to play     a role in the monitoring of the
                                implementation of Government policies and reforms. The
                                Authorities are keen to ensure that this mechanism take root
                                and generate encouraging results so that there will be a
                                demand for it among the population even after the term of
                                the Transitional Government. Civil society's participation in
                                the monitoring of economic governance policies and reforms
                                will be ,implemented through a mechanism that entails an
                                oversight committee formed by eminent individuals, and an
                                executive secretariat hired by the Government (and
                                 monitored by the oversight committee) which will be
                                 responsible for hiring individual civil society organizations

                                             vi

                       to monitor specific components of the economic governance
                       program. The civil society monitoring mechanism will be
                       coupled with a sound communication strategy aimed at
                       better informing relevant stakeholders and the wider public
                       on the objectives and implications of Government's actions
                       in the area of economic governance. One key component of
                       the communication strategy will be the dissemination of
                       information on budgetary allocations and disbursements to
                       the beneficiaries, including using the Internet, mailing
                       system, and the local press.

Poverty Aspects:       The program supported by the EGRO aims to improve the
                       efficiency of public resource use and thus free up more
                       resources to finance expenditures          geared at growth
                       resumption and poverty reduction.        B y opening up public
                       action to private scrutiny, the Government's economic
                       governance reform program creates room for the population,
                       including the poor, to have a voice in evaluating the
                       effectiveness and impact of public policy. In addition to the
                       above, the EGRO supports specific reforms measures that
                       directly benefit the poor: the improvement in public-private
                       partnership in health and education will mostly benefit the
                       poor; and the improvement in the maintenance of road and
                       the management of public enterprises would improve the
                       poor's access to more reliable public services.

Benefits and Risks:    The proposed operation would contribute to improving the
                        transparency, accountability and efficiency with which
                        overall public resources are utilized across the public sector.
                        As such, the operation would contribute to increasing
                        resources available for critical interventions in economic
                        recovery and poverty reduction. Moreover, by improving
                        government fiscal and financial management processes, the
                        proposed operation would provide comfort to donors in
                        disbursing external aid to the Government and through the
                        government budget, thus increasing external financing for
                        critical budgetary expenditures in the future. By supporting
                        capacity building efforts, the proposed operation would also
                        contribute to increasing the national absorptive capacity and
                        therefore a faster disbursement of badly needed external
                        assistance committed by the international community at the
                        international donors conference in July for critical social and
                        economic development interventions. Involvement o f civil
                        society in the monitoring of the economic governance
                        reform program and enhanced communication around its
                        content and objectives will also contribute to creating and
                        solidifying a culture of sound economic governance and thus
                        enhance the sustainability o f these reforms.

                        The proposed operation faces a number of risks detailed in
                        the Program Document.        In addition to the political and
                        security risks faced by the country, two critical risks are: (i)
                         weak institutional capacity and (ii) short time framework
                                                              the
                        for implementation of the reforms supported by the EGRO.

                                    vii

                         Although     the    Transitional   Government       i s  rightly
                         emphasizing human resources management and capacity
                         building in the public sector and has defined a realistic
                         transition strategy taking into account existing absorption
                         constraints, the transition period may prove too short to
                         allow for lasting reforms in the civil service. To address this
                         risk, the donor community has responded with proposed
                         significant technical assistance and efforts to coordinate it
                         effectively. More specifically, as part of the preparation of
                         this operation as well as under the LICUS grant and a
                         technical assistance IDA grant currently under preparation,
                         the Bank will provide technical assistance in key areas
                         supported by the EGRO. The time covered by the proposed
                         EGRO is short (6-9 months) while the reform agenda
                         remains daunting, especially after several years of poor
                         management of public resources, poor governance in key
                         social and economic sectors and neglect of institutional
                         capacity throughout the public sector. However, the ICF
                         defined a two phase approach with more urgent and critical
                         reforms taken in the transition period while longer term
                         reforms are prepared for approval by the next Government
                         and Parliament. This approach was supported by the donor
                         community at the July conference.

Scheduleof Disbursements: The operation is expected to be disbursed during the period
                          January 2005-July 2005 in two tranches: (a) an initial
                          tranche of US$46 million equivalent (of which USs27.5
                          million equivalent in the form of credit and US$18.5 million
                          equivalent in the form of grant) upon effectiveness and based
                          on actions already taken by the Government prior to Board
                          presentation as listed in Table 2, and (b) a floating tranche of
                          US$15 million equivalent (of which US$9 million in the
                          form of credit and US$6 million in the form of grant) to be
                          disbursedupon completion of actions also detailed in Table
                          2.

ClosingDate:              December 31,2005

Project IDNumber:         PO89873




                                       ...
                                     V l l l


                           INTERNATIONAL           DEVELOPMENT             ASSOCIATION


                                           PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                      FOR A PROPOSEDADJUSTMENT CREDIT AND GRANT
                                          TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                  FOR AN ECONOMIC                GOVERNANCE           REFORM OPERATION

1. This program document proposes an Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO) for the
Republic of Haiti supported by an IDA Credit and an IDA grant in the amount of SDR 40.7 million (US$
61 million equivalent).' The proposed EGRO is part of the Bank's response to the Government of Haiti's
request for international support for its Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF) presented at an
international donors conference that took place in Washington on July 19-20, 2004. The Government's
ICF aims to create the conditions for free and fair elections in 2005 so as to bringthe transition period to a
successful end, strengthen economic governance institutions and practices, rehabilitate the flagging
economy, and improve access of the population, especially the poor and vulnerable, to basic services.
The Bank played a key supporting role to the Government, along with other donors, in the preparation of
both the ICF and the donors conference. The donors conference generated USS1.08 billion in new pledges
for Haiti for the next two years, including an exceptional IDA allocation of US$l50 million.

2. The proposed operation will support critical economic governance reforms identified in the ICF and
will help improve the policy environment for increased Bank and other donor-supported investment
lending in key sectors. Specific reform areas covered under the proposed program include: improvement
of budget processe\, tightening up of internal controls and ex-post audits, improvement of public
procurement outcomes, stepping-up anti-corruption efforts, implementing a human resource management
strategy, improving efficiency and transparency in the management of public enterprises and the Road
Maintenance Fund, strengthening public-private partnerships in education and health, implementing a
sound communication strategy around economic governance reforms and outcomes, and creating a
mechanism for civil society to play a role in the monitoring of economic governance reform. The
Transitional Government, appointed in March 2004, has demonstrated critical achievements in the first
few months of its tenure, especially in the area of economic governance where it i s implementing a series
of measures to be supported by the proposed operation. This support would allow the Transitional
Government to sustain the momentum for reform which it has initiated and i s expected to culminate in the
first half of 2005. With these reforms, the Government hopes to instill a culture of sound economic
governance and generate among the population a demand for sound economic governance to continue
even beyond the term of the Transition Government.

3. The proposed operation i s thus a key component of the Bank's program of re-engagement in Haiti as
described in the companion Transitional Support Strategy (TSS).                         Technical assistance for the
implementation of the economic governance reforms supported by the EGRO will be provided by the
World Bank through a LICUS grant that was approved in September 2004 (US$1.5 million). Additional
follow-on technical assistance would be provided through a technical assistance IDA grant currently
under preparation and scheduled for Board presentation in 4 4 FY05. As indicated in the TSS, in addition
to the proposed operation and the technical assistance IDA grant, the Bank would also provide financing
to support emergency and disaster management (US$12 million) in the first year of its re-engagement. In
the second year of its re-engagement, the Bank will support investment projects that create economic and
social opportunities in rural areas and secondary cities mainly through a community driven development
program and a multi-sector investment program.

 'The proposedcredit i s in the amount of SDR 24.3 million (US$36.5 million equivalent) and the proposedgrant i s in the
 amount of SDR 16.4 million (US$24.5 million equivalent).

                                                              1

4. The proposed operation would consist of a first tranche to be disbursedfollowing Board approval and
credit effectiveness, followed by a floating tranche expected to be disbursed in the following 6 months.
The proposed tranching i s well suited to Haiti's current situation and needs. In the short term, Haiti
suffers from severe needs for external financing as established in the ICF. The proposed operation will be
presented to the Board after Haiti clears its outstandingarrears to IDA.



                                   PARTI. BACKGROUND RATIONALE        AND

5.   Occupying the western third of the island it shares with the Dominican Republic, Haiti i s the poorest
country in the Western Hemisphere and one of the most disadvantaged in the world, as social, economic
and environmental indicators reveal: a GNI per capita (Atlas method) estimated at $370 at end-2004 with
lower values estimated to have been reached in the past few months'; a ranking of 153rd on the human
development index; 76 percent of the population living under the poverty line (based on 2003 data); a life
expectancy of 53 years; an under five mortality rate of 123 out of 1,000; and a 97 percent deforestation.
Half the population does not have access to clean drinking water and only 28 percent has access to
improved sanitary facilities. The illiteracy rate is nearly 50 percent and the incidence of HIV/AIDS i s the
highest outside of Sub-Saharan Africa (5 percent). These indicators may have worsened after the socio-
political crisis of February-March 2004 that has been estimated to have caused a 5.5 percent of GDP in
property damage and output loss, and following the heavy flooding that affected the country in May and
September 2004 resultingin over 5,000 deaths and causing many poor and vulnerable households to loose
their livelihoods and increasing risks of disease.

6. For nearly two decades, Haiti has struggled to emerge from a cycle of politically driven internal
conflicts that have caused stop and go performance of foreign aid, devastated the economy and inflicted
severe hardship on its population. The political events that have marked the country in the past fifteen
years or so include the military overthrow of the democratically-elected president Jean Bertrand Aristide
in September 1991, the re-instatement of constitutional rule in 1994 with the return to power of the
elected President, the political crisis that followed the contested results of the general elections of 2000
which raised doubts over the legitimacy of the government and weakened the Legislative Branch. and
more recently an armed rebellion that forced President Aristide (who was re-elected in 2000) to step down
in February 2004.          A Transitional Government has been in place since March 2004 and is taking
important steps to bring about political and social stability and jump start the flagging economy amidst an
undercurrent of civil unrest.

7. After growing at an average annual rate of 2.3 percent in real terms in the 1970s, real per capita GDP
fell by an average of 2.3 percent per year in the 1980s and continued to decline in the 1990s at an average
annual rate of 3.1 percent. In particular, during the international embargo of 1991-94 that followed the
September 1991 military coup, activity in the textile and export-oriented assembly industries-
responsible for over three-quarters of export earnings and a significant share of jobs-virtually                        ceased,
tax collection and expenditure control systems collapsed, and maintenance o f economic and social
 infrastructure was all but abandoned.

 8. After the return to constitutional order in 1994, the government adopted an Emergency and Economic
 Reconstruction Program (EERP) which re-opened access to donor financing and allowed a certain
 recovery of economic activity. Moreover, during the 1994-2000 period, the combined effect of resumed
 external aid and the gradual increase in remittances led to significant improvements in certain social



 I  Quarterly data indicate a sharp decline of GDP during the January to March 2004 quarter (-7.93 percent) and a sluggish
 growth during the April to June 2004 quarter (2.02 percent), causing GNI per capitato fall to an estimated $320 and $330 for
 those quarters. After reachingan estimated $370 at endSeptember 2004 thanks to a strong appreciationof the currency and a
 stabilization of the economy during the July to Septemberquarter, GNI per capita i s projectedto decline to $350 by December
 2004 driven by a sharp GDP decline estimated at 4.36 percent for the September to December 2004 quarter.
                                                              2

indicators, particularly in the net school enrollment rate, the literacy rate, infant nutrition, and access to
safe water.

9. Unfortunately, political discord, lack of commitment to reforms, weak institutions, and lack of
financial discipline resulted in the gradual straining of Haiti's relation with its international partners and a
drying out of much needed external assistance in the early 2000s. The dearth of publicly-funded social
programs and the dramatic contraction of donor assistance (with disbursement of US$136 million in 2002
down from US$611 million in 1995) that followed the 2000 political crisis, led to significant declines in
the delivery of basic services - from safe water to critical and basic health services. Real GDP growth
remained low - close to zero - in the first three years of the current decade (Figure 1). Inflation averaged
19 percent during 2001-03 (reflecting an increase in the price of basic products); and the fiscal deficit
(excluding grants) averaged 3.2 percent of GDP. In the absence of external financing, the deficit was
financed primarily by Central Bank advances as well as by the accumulation of external arrears, which
further contributed to the worsening of Haiti's relations with its external creditors.

Figure 1: Real GDPgrowth and Income per Capita

                Real GDP Grovrth(%), 1997-2004
                                                                  GDP andGNl per Capita. 1997-2004

                                                             I                                        I




 Source: World Bank Live Database

 10. In fact, Haiti has had a long-standing history of external debt difficulties and has benefited from debt
 restructuring in the past. At end-September 2003, Haiti's external debt was estimated to amount to
 US$1,300 million (49 percent of GDP), equivalent to US$920 million in net present value (NPV) terms.'
 About 84 percent of total debt was owed to multilateral institutions, and 16 percent to bilateral creditors.
 In 1994, Haiti received international support to clear its external debt arrears. Subsequently, inMay 1995,
 Haiti benefited from a flow treatment on Naples terms on its obligations towards Pans Club creditors.
 Haiti then remained current on its debt service obligations to all creditors until FY1999. Starting in
 FY2000 Haiti began to accumulate arrears to some external creditors. In the Summer of 2003, the
 Authorities cleared Haiti's arrears to the IDB and remained current on the country's debt service
 obligations to that institution. However, Haiti continued to accumulate arrears to IDA and some bilateral
 creditors.

 1.      The Political Transition: A window of opportunity for lasting reform

 11. The political situation deteriorated sharply earlier this year when efforts to broker an accord between
 the governing party and a coalition of opposition groups came to a head. On January 12, 2004, with a
 political dispute over the May 2000 legislative elections still unresolved, the term of Haiti's parliament
 expired, leaving President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to rule by decree. Growing civil unrest, followed by an
 armed rebellion that seized the northern half of the country in February 2004, culminated with President
 Aristide resigning and leaving the country. UN Security Council Resolution 1529 was subsequently

 ' TheNPV of debt was calculatedusing the average currency-specific Commercial InterestReferenceRate (CIRRs) for the six-
 monthperiod ending in September 30,2003, and (as with all nominal values) convertedto US$,usingend-September 2003
 exchange rates.
                                                           3

adopted which, inter alia, recognized the resignation of President Aristide and the swearing-in of
Boniface Alexandre, the Chief of the Supreme Court, as acting President, in accordance with the 1987
Constitution's provisions for the transfer of power.

12. A Tripartite Council made up of a representative of the Fanmi Lavalas party, a representative of the
Democratic Platform (a coalition of opposition groups), and a representative of the international
community, designated a Council (known as the Council of the Wise) composed of seven eminent
personalities representing key sectors of Haitian society. Following a participatory process, the Council
of the Wise proposed, and President Alexandre appointed, Gerard Latortue as Transition Prime Minister.
The Prime Minister was sworn in on March 12, 2004. Although faced with the constitutional requirement
that elections should be held within 90 days of the transition President's nomination, the widely held view
that organizing credible elections would take a longer period of time prompted the Transitional
Government, political parties and civil society representatives to sign a political pact on April 4
(boycotted by Aristide's Lavalas Party and one or two other less known organizations of the civil society)
agreeing, inter alia, that the Transitional Government would create the conditions for democratic
elections, organize such elections in late 2005, and hand over power to a democratically elected
Government by February 2006.

13. After a period of calm, strikes and demonstrations have plagued the Transition period since August
2004. These strikes and demonstrations have involved the Police asking for a pay adjustment, the
Customs staff requesting that their Director step down in protest of the latter's policy of enforcing good
work ethic, the students of private medical schools requesting that their training be validated by the
Ministries of Health and Education, and the former military demanding pension payments, arrears
payment and the re-instatement of the army. The latest demonstrations which started in September result
from Lavalas supporters who wanted their leader back. Since then, armed groups have remained active,
causing dozens of deaths especially in the capital city.

14. The Transitional Government faces the combined challenges of dealing with a legacy of decades of
political instability, weakened institutions, corruption, inefficient use of public finances, and lack of
transparency and the impact of this situation on the trust and confidence that Haitian citizens have in their
leaders and institutions. Little or no space existed in the past for institutionalized dialogue on public
policies and the absence of mechanisms that would allow citizens to oversee state actions and government
programs made it impossible for citizens to play any role in holding public officials accountable.

 15. The transition period and the Transitional Government provide a window of opportunity for
implementing economic governance reforms with the involvement of civil society stakeholders that may
be hard for a future government to undo. The Transitional Government presents the characteristics of a
technocratic Government determined to leave behind a record based on honesty and drive for reforms.
Ministers of the Transitional Government were selected on the basis on their professional experience in
the areas under their responsibility. They have all vouched for not participating in any subsequent
Government. Many have declared their assets and are keen on leaving Government with a clean record of
honesty and accountability. In light of the low internal revenue mobilization capacity in the short term,
and the weak human resource base in the public sector, the Transitional Government will need significant
financial and technical assistance from the international community in order to achieve its goal of a sound
record of policy design and implementation.

2.       Recent Economic Developments

 16. The economic impact of the recent political turmoil has been significant, compounding an already
fragile economic situation. After some improvement in economic performance throughout much of 2003
 as a result of encouraging measures undertaken by the preceding Administration under an IMF-supported
 Staff MonitoredProgram (SMP), in late 2003, the SMP went off track mainly on account of overspending
 in the period leading to the celebration, in January 2004, of the bicentennial anniversary of the country's
 independence and security-related expenditures driven by the growing unrest. The budget deficit widened

                                                    4

during the period October 2003 - March 2004 and Central Bank financing of the budget breached the
SMP indicative target and net international reserves fell to a historic low of US$17 million by end-March.

17. Property losses and the closure of businesses disrupted economic activity for weeks, resulting in
severe disruptions in the supply system, and private sector confidence weakened amid persistent security
concerns. As a result, monthly inflation picked up to 6.5 percent in April from 1.5 percent in February,
reflecting widespread supply constraints (mainly due to closure of ports, disruption of road transport and
looting of warehouses) and increases in international commodity prices. Monthly inflation has fallen to
less than 1 percent in recent months. Property damage in both the public and private sectors was
substantial and GDP is estimated to have fallen by 3.5 percent in fiscal year 2003-04 (October 2003 to
September 2004).      The Government's financial position further deteriorated as revenues declined
substantially due to the fall in economic activity, weakened administrative capacity and security concerns.
Although activity appears to be picking up in some sectors, commercial banks remain reluctant to extend
new credit to the private sector mainly because of concerns that non-performing loans could rise owing to
the conflict's impact on creditworthiness.

18. Following the crisis, with the virtual shut down of the public sector, monthly public expenditures fell
in March to 23 percent of their February level before recovering to 41 percent in April. Expenditures
recovered as public institutions were gradually reopened. Nevertheless, faced with revenue shortfalls and
in order to restore financial stability in the months that followed the February-March events, the
Transitional Government curbed nonessential expenditures while developing an emergency plan to
prioritize expenditures to rehabilitate key Government facilities and infrastructure and to safeguard the
provision of basic public services. Initial steps have been taken to strengthen governance in the public
sector with new managers appointed in public sector enterprises, tax officers from the large-taxpayer unit
assigned to oversee their tax payments, and the use of discretionary current accounts reduced to 13.4
percent of non-wage current expenditures duringfiscal year 2004 (October 2003-September 2004) thavks
to sharp decline in the second half of the fiscal year. The national currency, the gourde, has strengthened
since the end of the armed conflict in March 2004 (from over 40 gourdes to the dollar in February to
around 37 gourdes to the dollar in December) reflecting the effects of a tighter fiscal management, a
recovery in remittances and a significant reduction in imports, as well as expectations of foreign aid
inflows. The Government, in consultation with the IMF staff, has completed the implementation of a six
month Staff Monitored Program (SMP) covering the period April-September 2004.             The IMF reviewed
the SMP in November 2004 and concluded that the objectives of the macroeconomic program supported
by the SMP were largely met. All end-June and end-September quantitative targets were observed by
wide margin, with net international reserves significantly above the program floor and the overall budget
deficit well below target (3.7 percent of GDP compared with an SMP target of 5 percent of GDP), and
good progress was made on structural measures.

 19. The economic situation has been made worse by a series of catastrophes, tragedy and unrest in certain
parts of the country, while donor pledges of support to the Government made in July 2004 have been slow
to materialize, and the population still waits for the Government to deliver on promises of change. The
month of May was marked by flooding and mudslides in the Southeastern communities of Fonds Verrette
and Mapou which claimed some 2,600 lives. In mid-September, rains from Hurricane Jeanne triggered
heavy flash floods in the northern Haiti, especially in the city of Gonai'ves, claiming another 3,000 lives
and leaving hundreds of thousands deprived of their livelihood and relying on meager rations of food aid
from relief agencies and UN peacekeeping forces. These events have brought increased attention to the
country's vulnerability to natural disasters, lack of early warning system and the government's inability to
respondeven minimally in the wake of disasters.

3.       Recent social developments

20. A recent report prepared indicates that the poverty situation in Haiti may have worsened significantly
 in recent years. Based on 2003 data, the report indicates that the poverty incidence is 76 percent (i.e.
percentage of population living below US$2/day) and that the incidence of extreme poverty (US$l/day) i s

                                                     5

56 percent.' The report found that poverty i s far more entrenched in rural areas than in urban areas and
that rural-urban migration contributes to poverty.               With the shrinking of rural economic activity,
persistent rural poverty and recurring political turmoil, large numbers of rural migrants have established
residence in precarious accommodations on the outskirts and inside the capital city. Moreover, years of
deforestation have contributed to increasing soil erosion and risks of flooding. The deep poverty in Haiti
co-exists with a level of income inequality comparable to the most unequal countries: the Gini coefficient
i s estimated at 0.65 and the poorest 10 percent of the population receives a mere 0.4 percent of national
income, the poorest 20 percent receives 1.5 percent while the richest 20 percent receives 68 percent of
national income.

21. Political and social instability has been a key factor in the persistence of poverty in Haiti. The
protracted political crisis that culminated in the events of February-March 2004 may have worsened the
overall poverty situation in the country. Following the crisis, low income households and individuals
suffered from disruptions in the supply of basic commodities (e.g. rice) and higher inflation, and the
delivery of basic public services (e.g., education, health care, food assistance, security) was severely
disrupted in many parts of the country. In recent weeks, security in the country, and especially in the
capital city, has been affected by shootings by armed gangs and political activists, kidnapping and
robbery. Government's ability to deal with the increased insecurity in Port-au-Prince and the provinces i s
weak.

4.        Gqvernment's response to the crisis

22. The Transitional Government has declared its intention to use its two year period in office to improve
socio-economic conditions for the people of Haiti and put in place reforms that future governments may
find hard to roll-back. The provisional Government comprises 14 Ministers not affiliated to political
parties but rather selected on the basis of experience in their area of responsibility. All members of the
Cabinet have agreed not to run as candidates in the next Presidential election. The Government has taken
steps that are already showing results although much remains to be done especially outside the capital:
electricity supply has increased to an average of 9 hours in Port-au-Prince, from 3 hours in March:
garbage collection in Port-au-Prince (which had come to a halt in the aftermath of the February-March
events with serious health risks) has improved markedly;                 and revenue collection has exceeded pre-
February levels after a sharp decline in March in the aftermath of the troubles that preceded and followed
Aristide' s departure.

23. In the InterimCooperation Framework (ICF) and the series of thematic reports underpinning it, the
Transitional Government has identified, and committed to, a set of multi-sector reforms as well as social
 and economic rehabilitation/development programs for the next two years. The timely and successful
 implementation of the programs outlined in the ICF would go a long way in addressing the social,
 economic and political problems facing the country. To implement these broad based reforms and
programs, the ICF estimated that the country would need about US$924 million in fresh external
 financing over the period July 2004-September 2006.2 At the international donors conference held in
 Washington on July 19-20, the international community expressed its strong support to the Transitional
 Government's program of economic recovery by pledging U S $ l.OS billion, which should provide the
 Government with sufficient financial andtechnical assistance required to implement its program. In order
 to continue maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework, the Government has prepared, and intends to
 implement fully, a macroeconomic stabilization program for the period October 2004-September 2005 to
 be supported by an IMF Emergency Post Conflict Assistance (EPCA, see paragraph 60). The EPCA i s
 scheduled for presentation to the IMFBoard on January 7, 2005.

 24. Faced with the recent demonstrations by former soldiers demanding the reinstitution of the army and
 with the significant human and physical losses caused by natural disasters, the Government has responded

 ' Source:Haiti Living Conditions Survey 2003 draft report, UNDPand Governmentof Haiti.
   Rehabilitationandreconstructionneeds following serious floods in May and September 2004 as well as an undercurrentof civil
 unrest during October-December may have increasedthe financing needs of the country somewhat.
                                                            6

with the creation of a committee on the implementation of the agreement reached with the former
military. The UN mission, MINUSTAH has assisted the Haitian National Police in addressing the
security situation in Port au Prince and the provinces. However, MINUSTAH has been constrained due
to delays in troop deployment. Luckily, this is changing. As of late November, MINUSTAH had 75
percent of its troops already in Haiti and full deployment is expected for end-December.

25. The Government's response to the natural disasters has been constrained by financial resources and
more importantly by organizational capacity. The international community responded with food supply
and emergency health care in the immediate aftermath of the crises. The challenge now i s to stimulate
and coordinate Government and donors response in identifying ways to deliver more effectively short
term responses (including humanitarian) in Gonaives and other disaster-affected areas; identifying ways
of financing and coordinating short-term infrastructure rehabilitation work; and organizingjoint efforts to
(i)identify risks and vulnerabilities in Gonaives and elsewhere in the country so as to mitigate the impact
of future natural disasters; and (ii)propose longer term reconstruction plans for Gonaives and other
natural disaster affected areas. A recent decision of the PrimeMinister to create a full-fledged Ministry
of the Environment, create a Directorate General in charge of Natural Disaster Management in the
Ministry of Interior, and ask for international help to assess the environmental vulnerability of the country
and implement a strategic action plan to secure the populations and the natural habitat, indicate that the
Authorities have put environmental and natural disaster issues high on their agenda.

26. To complement the ICF and design a medium-term development program, the Transitional
Government intends to prepare a participatory medium-term Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in
the coming year in consultation with stakeholders. The PRSP would be presented for finalization and
approval by the Government that will emerge from the 2005 elections and will include a medium term
development strategy covering the period 2006-09. In order to build a bridge between addressing the
urgent socio-economic recovery needs and the formulation of longer term strategies, and to ensure
consistency between the ICF and the PRSP - the preparation of which was initiated in 2003 by the
previous Government -the ICF will serve as an important input for the next steps of PRSP preparation.



                             PART11. HAITI'SSTRUCTURAL CHALLENGES

27. The structural challenges faced by the Transitional Government are numerous. They have been
analyzed in-depth in the thematic reports underpinning the ICF. The paragraphs that follow describe
those challenges that directly affect economic governance defined as the management of public resources.
As such, economic governance concerns the entire public service sector and relates to public resource
management (financial, human and material), including the requisite culture of ethics, discipline,
transparency and accountability as well as the mechanisms for enforcing sanctions and corrective actions
in instances of deviations.

 28. Maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework.                  Haiti has successfully completed the
 implementation of a six month IMF Staff Monitored Program from April to September 2004 and i s
 geared to implement a proposed successor program supported by an IMF Emergency Post-Conflict
Assistance (EPCA) in order to keep the momentum built during the SMP and continue to maintain a
 sound macroeconomic framework.

 29. The assumptions underlying the Government's macroeconomic program and the FY2004-05 budget
 that was recently approved by the Council of Ministers are realistic. The economy i s expected to recover
 from the 2004 crisis, growing at 2.5 percent in 2005 (and 3 percent during 2005-07) helped by financing
 from increased remittances and external official sources. While exports will take a while to recover fully,
 increased imports will lead to a widening of the current account deficit (to a projected 7.5 percent of GDP
 excluding official grants) in 2005 and 6-8 percent during 2005-07.          However, grant financing and
 concessional loans will help close the current account deficit without increasing the debt burden of the
 country. With continued improvements in revenue collection and committed external financing, the
                                                     7

Authorities expect to reduce to zero the Central Bank financing of the fiscal deficit (the central
government deficit i s projected to grow from 3.7 percent to 6.0 percent of GDP in FY2004-05 and 7.8
percent in FY2005-06 due to increased spending on critical basic needs). This will support a tightening of
monetary policy, a reduction of inflation from an annual average of 27 percent to a projected about 17
percent in 2005; and the maintenance of a firm currency. The strengthening of the currency, combined
with generous grant financing, will help reduce Haiti's external debt to GDP ratio somewhat in the years
ahead. A challenge facing the Authorities is to clear the country's external arrears and improve, in the
medium term, Haiti's debt management.                 External arrears currently stand at US$72 million. With
promises of a grant from a bilateral donor in support of IDA arrears clearance, prospects of bridge
financing from official and private sources, availability of international reserves, and indication of
willingness of bilateral creditors to seek a solution to bilateral arrears, the Authorities are confident that
they can implement a plan for comprehensive treatment of external arrears albeit in a sequential fashion.


                                    Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators




Source:IMF and Bank Staff estimates.

30. The positive macroeconomic scenario may not materialize if the momentum for maintaining a sound
macroeconomic framework is not kept, the efforts to improve the efficiency of public resource
management are slackened, or security problems intensify to the point of significantly disrupting
Government and donors' activities. Under such an adverse macroeconomic scenario, economic growth
would average about 0.8 percent during the period 2005-07 while yearly CPI inflation (averaging 20
percent during 2005-07) would be higher than in the positive scenario in the face o f resumed monetary
financing of the government deficit and possible disruptions in the supply of goods and services. In fact,
under this scenario, the government deficit would average 4.5 percent of GDP duringthe period 2005-07
(due to lower donor financing and internal revenues that would result from disruptions in the revenue
collection system).        While this adverse scenario would result in lower exports than in the positive
 scenario, it would also result in lower imports (as imports related to donors activities would fall
 significantly).    The resulting external current account deficit would be lower than under the positive
macroeconomic scenario (4.0 on average during 2005-07 compared with an average of 6.0 percent under
the positive macroeconomic scenario).

 31. Although it is not yet included in the HIPC initiative, Haiti suffers from a fairly high level of
 indebtedness. The Net Present Value (NPV) of Haiti's debt at endSeptember 2003,' after full use of
traditional debt relief mechanisms,* i s estimated at US$900 million, equivalent to 201 percent of exports.'

 'The NPV of debt was calculated using the average currency-specificCommercial Interest Reference Rate (CIRRs) for the six-
 month periodendingin September 30,2003, and converted to US$using end-September2003 exchange rates.
  Traditional debt relief mechanismsrefer to a stock-of-debtoperation under Naples terms from ParisClub creditors and at least
 comparabletreatment from non-Paris Club creditors.
                                                            8

The NPV of debt to exports ratio at end-September 2004 shows a small improvement reaching 199
percent. Most of the improvement i s explained by increased exports as the conflict left the exports sector
almost intact. For 2005-08, the NPV of debt-to-exports ratio is projected to remain above 170 percent.
Additionally, Haiti's already precarious debt prospects could be worsened by exchange rates fluctuation.
Haiti's debt indicators are also highly vulnerable to exogenous shocks like natural disasters and price
changes. Although Government's effort to pay external debt arrears while emphasizing grant financing in
the future will help reduce the level of indebtedness somewhat, Haiti's external debt level will continue to
constrain development and poverty-reducing expenditures for a while (see paragraphs 31-34 of the TSS
for a more detailed analysis of Haiti's debt situation).                 The Bank i s already responding to Haiti's
vulnerable debt situation by converting 51 percent of its FY05 financing to Haiti into grant, leaving only
49 percent inconcessional interest-free loans.'

32. Budget Preparation and Execution, Financial Management and Oversight. The budget process has
been seriously weakened by the lack of capacity of the planning structures, the absence of program and
project monitoring and assessment structures (in the Ministries of Finance, Planning as well as other
sectoral Ministries and agencies), delays in ratifying the budget, shortcomings of the parameters for
budget analysis and the data and information that underpin budget proposals, and the rampant misuse of
comptes courants (Ministry own expenditure accounts).

33. The latter shortcoming - the pervasive use of comptes cuurants - which evolved as a result of an
attempt to circumvent the normal expenditure execution process (itself long plagued with complicated
procedures between the requisition and disbursement stages) has resulted in lack of transparency in public
resource management and has led to corruption.                   The use of comptes courants has been "highly
discretionary and circumvents the normally complex ex-ante and ex-post control procedures of the
Supreme Audit Institution (Cuur Supe`rieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratifs or CSCCA)".3
The share of public expenditures that transit through coinptes courants has increased steadily and
significantly over the past 5 years - from 18 percent of total expenditures in fiscal year 1997-98 to nearly
60 percent of total spending in fiscal year 2002-03. While spending agencies are required to provide, ex-
post, all the supporting elements to justify the use of comptes courants and help assign the related
expenditures to the appropriate budget lines, in a good number of cases the ex-post justification i s not
provided by the spending agencies. A recent Public Expenditure note by the Bank staff found that
spending agencies with heavy spending power and political weight tend to be the largest users of comptes
courants as a proportion of their budget and are reported to be the most delinquent in providing ex-post
ju~tification.~The Transitional Government has shown a determination to reduce the use of comptes
courants.       The share of current non-salary comptes courants expenditures in total non-salary public
expenditures averaged 23 percent in the first quarter of FY2003-04, 19.2 percent in the second quarter,
 3.3 inthe thirdquarter, and less than 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter.

 34. Investment expenditures are not identified and planned in a coherent framework. In fact, there is no
clearly identified, multi-year investment program. There i s a lack o f strategic planning of investment
expenditure after nearly 20 years of neglect of capital budgeting and weakening of institutions involved in
 preparing and monitoring the public sector investment program (especially the Ministry of Planning and
 Extemal Cooperation). The situation has caused a disconnect between public sector capital expenditures
 on the one hand and poverty reduction and socio-economic development needs on the other hand. The
 lack of public investment planning and monitoring has meant that public sector investment has been
 driven by donor-funded and NGO projects, further causing a disconnect between the government's
 current expenditure budget and the overall investment made in the public sector (including through donor



 *
 ' Referstothe three-yearbackward-lookingmoving average of the exports of goods andnon-factor services.
   See World Bank : Transitional Support Strategy - Report No. 30541.
   See Faria et Moreno-Lopez (1997) Financespubliqueset dtpenses courantes. Examendes dtpenses publiquesd'Hdti. Note #
 1,projet mars 1997.
   During 2001-03, the spending institutions classified in the "political sector" in the government budget spent on average 46
 percent of their budget through comptes courants, compared with 22 percent for the economic sector and 18 percent for the
 socio-culturalsector.
                                                             9

funded projects). As a result of weak investment planning, changes to the investment budget occur in an
ad-hoc manner during budget execution. In fact, sectoral Ministries have had little control over the
execution of capital expenditure in their respective sectors; in 2003, the office of the President was the
largest user of the investment budget with 26.6 percent of the executed capital expenditures, much of it
executed through comptes courants. Public investment has represented a small percentage of GDP and of
total expenditure in recent years - which i s itself an indication of insufficient investment in the face of
great development needs.' In FY2004-05, the public sector investment budget represents 6.2 percent of
GDP (of which 1.5 percent of GDP i s government-financed and 4.7 percent of GDP is extemally-
financed) against 3.4 percent in of GDP the previous year. Although this increase is to be welcomed, the
misuse of investment funds might become more harmful if increased investment expenditures are not
accompanied by concomitant strengthening of investment planning and execution capacity and increased
transparency and oversight.

35. Until now, the internal control functions of the Government have been limited to the checking of
availability of funds and have not focused on the implementation of due process. The ex-post audit of the
government budget has not been done for several years. The supreme audit institution - the Cour
Supe'rieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSCCA) - urgently needs technical assistance
to strengthen its capacity to fulfill this function. Due to the lack of capacity at the CSCCA and unreliable
or delayed preparation of executed budget accounts by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the CSCCA
has generally neglected the ex-post audit and focused on ex-ante controls in duplication of the work done
by the Budget Directorate of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The legislative framework for public
sector financial control has been recently amended with the new Organic Law on the Preparation and
Execution of Budget Laws. Its major innovations include eliminating the CSCCA's ex-ante functions,
strengthening ex-post control by creating a corps o f public accountants, establishing an Inspectorate
General of Finance, and providing a regulatory framework for an efficient financial control system.
However, much remains to be done to operationalize the new Organic Law.

36. Historically, public expenditures allocation has favored the so-called political sector represented by
Ministries and institutions whose functions are rather political than economic or social.                           Political
Ministries and institutions (mainly the Office of the President, Prime Minister's Office, Ministry of
Interior, Ministry of Justice) accounted for about 40 percent of current expenditures during 2001-2003
and an even larger percentage o f capital expenditures. This bias has worsened a situation where public
revenues available for Government spending are among the lowest in the world (8.3 percent of GDP on
average over the past 5 years) and wages and salaries represented 31 percent o f expenditures. On the
other hand, social sectors accounted for about 30 percent of current expenditures during the same period.
As a percentage of GDP, they did not exceed 2.6 percent for the 1997-2003 period. At 1.7 percent of
GDP education is the largest beneficiary of public funds among the social sectors. Nevertheless, public
expenditures on education are rather low compared with 2.8 percent of GDP for low-income countries
 and 3.8 percent for sub-Saharan Africa. Many of the weaknesses in expenditure allocations have started
being addressed in the FY05 budget.

 37. In addition of the poverty content of expenditures being neglected, there has been no systematic
 tracking of the poverty impact of expenditures. Beneficiaries are often not aware of public resources
 allocated to them. Despite recent progress in consulting civil society during budget preparation, much
 remains to be done in involving beneficiaries and civil society in the monitoring o f expenditure allocation
 and the implementation o f public sector programs.

 38. The Authorities have made some efforts in the past couple of years at clarifying the framework and
 improving processes and systems for fiscal management and financial control. The Organic Law on the
 Preparation and Execution of Budget Laws that was ratified by Parliament in December 2003, and the

 ' During 2000-03, public sector investmentrepresenteda mere 2.1 percent of GDP on average. The capital expenditures to
 current expenditures ratio reachedan average of 13 percent during the period 1991-2001,well below those of low-income
 countries (35 percent), sub-Saharan African, (31 percent) andLatin America and the Caribbean (21 percent). Source: World
 Bank Public ExpenditureNote .
                                                             10

automated public expenditure management system (SYSDEP) being implemented in a phased manner are
among some of the milestones. The new Organic Law organizes the budget process, separates ex-ante
financial control from ex-post audit, and makes public accountants independent from the expenditure
authorization authorities. After 5 years without a budget, the authorities have prepared an annual budget
over the past three years - albeit with some delays until recently. In fact the fiscal year 2004-05 budget
was approved before the beginningof the fiscal year.

39. Public Procurement. The current legislative framework i s based on the 1989 decree on public
procurement which defines a decentralized national system and entrusts sectoral ministries, administrative
units and public enterprises with the responsibility for procurement management, under the supervision of
a national public procurement commission. The legislation also invests an independent entity with
responsibility for the audit function with respect to government contracts. However, the regulations
needed to apply the legislation and implement the system were never adopted.                The national public
procurement commission - Commission Nationale des Marche's Publics (CNMP) - has not functioned
since the early 1990s. The reason given by the authorities i s that the Ministry of Fonction Publique,
which i s supposed to chair the commission and provide a secretariat, has not existed since then.

40. The pragmatic arrangements that were adopted to fill this institutional void were neither efficient nor
transparent, and have given rise to numerous accusations of corruption. These and other failings of the
public procurement system were identified in a draft Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
prepared by the Bank in 1999. Since then no significant progress has been made toward improving public
procurement and the system has been further eroded as reduced levels of government expenditure over
the past several years and the non-observance of public procurement procedures obliged qualified
procurement professionals to seek employment outside the public service due to the limited demand for
their expertise. Moreover, reduced external financing during 1997-2003 (see paragraph 9) created
 opportunity for lax procurement practices.

 41. On a more positive note, the Prime Minister's Office took the lead in distributing the 1999 draft
 CPAR across the government in late 2003, and, jointly with the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
 initiated a review of alternative arrangements for strengthening the public procurement process by
 implementing good aspects of the current legislative framework compatible with the existing institutional
 set-up. More recently, the Prime Minister's Office has assigned dedicated staff to prepare a decree
 establishing an Interim Procurement Commission (Commission Nationale Inte'rimaire des Marche's
 Publics - CNIMP) to assume the essential oversight duties of the CNMP and take the lead in
 implementing the procurement reforms outlined inthe Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF).

 42. Anti-corruption efforts. The government's governance agenda i s complicated by the entrenched and
 crippling problems caused by widespread corruption in Haitian society. Addressing these problems in a
 credible way, particularly in the public service, is critical to the success of economic and governance
 reforms. Research both by the World Bank Institute and Transparency International indicate that Haiti has
 some of the most serious corruption problems in the world, and that those problems have worsened in
 recent years. WBI governance indicators show Haiti at the bottom 1 percent of 200 countries across the
 globe in 2002, compounded by weakening levels of voice and accountability, government effectiveness
 and rule of law. 'A 2003 survey of corruption in Haiti done by Fondation He'ritage Hat'ti, the local
 affiliate of Transparency International, showed that corruption was not only widespread but tolerated by
 large segments of Haitian society.2 At the same time, the private sector indicated in the TI survey that
 corruption was the leading constraint to reviving business activity, stimulating trade and economic
  growth. International and local experts agree that Haiti's highly entrenched corruption will be a major
  issue that will plague the country for years to come and only a sustained and highly determined nation-
  wide approach-led      by government in coalition with the private sector and civil society-can succeed in
  reducing it. In the 2004 TI global corruption classification index, Haiti shares with Bangladesh the


  ' Seewww.worldbank.org/wbi./govemance/data.htnd
   La Fondation HCritage pour Haiti: L'e'tut des Lieux de la Corruption en Hui'ti, 2003.
                                                              11

position of the most corrupt country in the World, reflecting a worsening from the previous year when
Haiti was classified as the third most corrupt country after Bangladesh and Nigeria.

43. Human Resources and institutional capacity. Although the 1987 Constitution devotes an entire
chapter to the importance of building a modem, reliable and competent public service, in their current
state, public institutions are barely productive and are painfully vulnerable to fallouts from the political
arena. Across the board, the levels of training and technical expertise are far from satisfactory. Senior
officials make up only 5.6 percent of the total number of public service employees; technical personnel
account for 35 to 40 percent, while the remainder i s accounted for by support staff. In addition, there is
insufficient capacity for monitoring government policies, as well as a shortage of reliable data and
preliminary or specialized studies that can inform public policy decisions.                     To a large extent, the
precarious state of the public sector reflects the failure o f Haiti's institutions of higher education and life-
long learning to develop policy and project management training programs that can meet the human
resource needs of the public service. The Haitian public sector also suffers some of the usual problems
found in developing countries facing economic difficulties, namely erosion of salaries due to inflation,
competition from NGOs and international organizations for the limited pool of qualified professionals,
and deterioration o f working conditions.

44. Public enterprises and infrastructure management, After the privatization in the mid-1990s o f two
industrial state-owned enterprises, the public enterprise reform agenda stalled for lack of political will.
Given the limited resources available for infrastructure maintenance and investments, the quality and
reliability of services provided by public enterprises has deteriorated over the years with the
intensification of the economic and political crisis. Public enterprises have alternately been milked as
cash cows or used to meet the employment and income needs of friends and support groups. Their
management practices have been very opaque and quite removed from the norms of good economic
goirernance. Consequently, urgent steps need to be taken (at different levels) throughout the public
enterprises if Haiti i s to emerge from its current economic crisis. Indeed, the newly appointed CEOs of
EDH (electricity), Teleco (telecommunications), AAN (airports), APN (ports) and CAMEP (water) have
acknowledged the deplorable state of operational, financial, technical, administrative, human resource,
strategic planning,internal control and audit of these enterprises.' The paucity of qualified professionals
has been starkly exacerbated by the plethora of non-essential staff.                      EDH and Teleco constitute a
particularly alarming case in point especially in terms of the mediocre rate of bill collection, unethical
business practices (theft and fraud) and the mismanagement of human resources. In 2003, a World Bank
 mission reviewed the above mentioned five state-owned enterprises in order to assess their readiness to
undergo an external financial audit. The mission concluded that only three of the five enterprises were
 immediately auditable according to international auditing standards; these are AAN, CAMEP and APN.
 The other two - in effect the largest two - Teleco and EDH, were not auditable given the poor state of
 their financial statements and poor availability of accounting information. For these enterprises to be
 audited according to international auditing standards, they need to undergo a process of cleaning and
 presenting their accounts according to international accounting standards.

 45. Road maintenance. Public infrastructure, especially roads, have suffered from lack of maintenance
 over the years. According to recent findings of the Interim Cooperation Framework, only 5 percent o f the
 network i s considered in good conditions and 15 percent in acceptable conditions. The situation has
 dramatically worsen over the past decade (in 1991, 34 percent of the network was in good or acceptable
 conditions). Since 1991, about half of the rural roads have been taken out of the official road inventory
 due to their extreme degradation.' Road maintenance expenditures have been falling dramatically over the
 past years so that less than 10 percent of the network i s maintained on a regular basis. Road maintenance


    Two public enterprises are responsible for the sector: CAMEP i s in charge of the Metropolitan Area of Port-au-Prince and
 SNEP is in charge of secondary towns and rural areas. SNEP i s currently being assisted through an IDB loan aiming at
 strengthening and gradually providing more autonomy to the local offices of SNEP. It i s also being assisted through a LICUS
 grant supportingthe development of a national rural water supply and sanitationstrategy. The EGRC addresses transparency and
 *management issues at CAMEP.
  Source: Haiti - Cadre de Coopiration lntkrimaire (CCI) - Report on roads and transport - 2004.
                                                            12

financing needs have been estimated to US$1.4 million if only roads in good or average conditions
receive routine maintenance. If the entire network were to be rehabilitated - and therefore maintained - ,
these needs would increase to US$4.7 million. These estimations do not take into account periodic
maintenance but only routine maintenance. The lack of maintenance has contributed to reducing the life
span of roads, increasing replacement costs, and affecting the level and efficiency of economic activity.
The Ministry of Public Works, in charge of the road network, does not have the required resources -both
human and financial - to ensure adequate road maintenance. The conditions of the roads i s a major
constraint for economic and social development in Haiti. Rural areas - where two third of the population
live - are isolated due to the conditions of the rural roads. Some studies from the mid-1990s reported that
transport costs for food aid were double for a road in very poor conditions, compared to a road in
acceptable conditions.' Ultimately, very high logistic costs (from poor road conditions but also expensive
port services) translate into a 30 percent over-cost for certain imported goods.* To address the road
maintenance challenge, FER was created by Law in 2003. However, by December 2004, it had not yet
been operational.

46. Public-private partnership in the education and health sectors. The Ministry of National Education,
Youth and Sports (MENJS) lacks the means to exert its normative and regulatory role in the education
system, a fundamental issue of governance. The MENJS has weak strategic planning capacity, limited
steering ability, lack of institutional memory, insufficient inspection and lack of transparency in the
allocation of finances besides salaries. Equally important, there i s insufficient dialogue and coordination
with the private sector, which i s the dominant supplier of education services in the country with 80
percent of enrollment. Lack of access persists, particularly in poor and rural regions, and the system still
generates too many school dropouts, repetitions, and overage students. Approximately 500,000 children
still do not have access to basic education. Finally, the quality and effectiveness o f the offered education
i s very weak, with only 35 percent of children (who enter first year of primary school) completing the 5"
year of primary school.

47. In the health sector, the operating budget of the Ministry of Health (MSPP) i s insufficient, poorly
utilized and virtually impossible to analyze from a public expenditure perspective. Staff are underpaid
 and poorly assigned. The MSPP has thus far been unable to structure the health system and put in place
 basic supply chain and supervision mechanisms. Essential drugs are not available to patients. Reform of
 the periphery care system (district-level health centers) has never been truly implemented. In addition,
 there i s a mutual mistrust between the private and public sectors and a lack of partnership between them.
 Beginning with this transition period, it must fall to the State to set priorities and to play the role of
 regulator in order to maximize the effectiveness and consistency of external assistance and private sector
 (including non-governmental organizations) activities. At the same time, limited absorptive capacity of
 the public health system is a major bottleneck, which highlights the importance of creating public-private
 partnerships as well as the strengthening of existing capacities of the private and non-governmental
 organizations (NGOs) for the provision of the minimumpackage of health services.

 48. Civil society monitoring and communication. The participation of the population in public affairs is
 hampered by a lack of information about activities in the public sphere including budget information,
 criteria and beneficiaries of public-funded programs, efficiency or lack of it in the use of public funds,
 and information on impact of programs and policies. There i s no mechanism that allows citizens to
 oversee state actions and government programs. There are four challenges to promoting a more inclusive
 form of governance in Haiti whereby the government and civil society collaborate around the design,
 implementation and oversight of public policies and programs. First, Haitian civil society i s fragmented
 and can be divided into (i)     a dominant group of `structured civil society' that has close ties to the State,
 (ii)those that provide service delivery inthe absenceofthe State, and (iii)small groups of Smalland
 Medium Enterprises (SMEs), producers, etc. that have no representation or ties to the government.
 Despite a strong role in service delivery, however, there are no institutionalized mechanisms for dialogue
 with a cross-sector of CSOs from these three groups and thus little experience at entering into a policy


 * Source:
  ' Source:Haiti : The Challengesof Poverty Reduction,World Bank (1998).
           US.Departmentof State -FY2000Country CommercialGuide :Haiti.

dialogue either at the sectoral or macro level. Second, the limited access that civil society actors have to
timely and accurate public information impedes their ability to effectively monitor public actions. Third,
in the absence of an institutionalized dialogue and legal framework for civic engagement, there is no
strategic approach to state-society interactions, invitations to participate are sporadic and have not always
led to results and enhanced transparency. Fourth, because of this tradition of little state-society
interaction, there is little capacity at present within Haitian civil society organizations in terms of tools
and methodologiesto use their voice effectively and credibly.

49. Despite the critical role that communications can play to increase awareness and understanding and
to garner support for the government's economic reform program, the Ministry of Economy and Finance
-like the Government ingeneral - does not currently have a formal communications program.                       The
general public has traditionally not been informed regularly about economic reform programs. This
makes the general public highly susceptible to misinformation about government programs and there i s a
high degree of mistrust in public authorities due to a history of lack of accountability and transparency in
public resources management. Going forward, the challenge for the Government will be to strengthen its
capacity to make information more readily available and accessible to the general public.


    PART111. THETRANSITIONALGOVERNMENT'S                        REFORMPROGRAM AS DETAILEDINTHE ICF

50. The Transitional Government's reform program i s detailed in the Interim Cooperation Framework
(ICF) which seeks to operationalize the Government's vision presented by the Prime Minister and his
Cabinet members in April 2004 to the population, the media, and the donor community.                            The
Government's main priorities are articulated around four strategic pillars in the ICF: 1) Strengthening
political governance and promoting national dialogue; 2) Strengthening economic governance and
 contributing to institutional development; 3) Promoting economic recovery; and 4) Improving access to
 basic services. As part of the preparation of the ICF, the Government prepared, in each of the above
 areas, with input from its national and international development partners, a series of thematic reports
 with detailed planned interventions and specific targets, costing and timeline for implementation.' These
 interventions should support efforts towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals
 (MDGs).

 51. Following the intense collaboration and dialogue between the Government and the World Bank
 before and during the preparation of the ICF, the Transitional Government and the Bank have agreed to
 focus the support provided through this operation on the implementation of key policies and reforms
 identified under the second pillar of the ICF (Le., strengthening economic governance and contributingto
 institutional development). The operation will also support the implementation of some reform measures
 related to economic governance identified under the third and fourth pillars. A key aspect of the operation
 will be focused on strengthening civil society's monitoring of the implementation of these reforms, and
 on designing and implementinga communication strategy around these reforms.

 52. Pillar 1. Strengthening political governance and promoting national dialogue. The transition
 process, the holding of elections, and the reconstruction of the country are threatened by the climate of
 insecurity. The transition strategy aims to strengthen needed national capacities and involve all sectors of
  society in the process of disarmament. Thus, it seeks to disarm and dismantle the armed groups, ensure
 the rehabilitation and reintegration of members of these groups, professionalize the Haitian National
 Police (PNH) in order to effectively fight corruption, impunity and human rights violations, promote
 judicial independence, legal training, information and access to justice, and rehabilitate physical
  infrastructure for the judiciary, promote a partnership between the government and human rights
  organizations to strengthen respect for human rights and fundamental liberties, and rationalize the
  management of prisons. The Transitional Government also seeks to initiate a process o f national


  IThe ICF Thematic Reports and the ICF Synthesis Report are available of the Internet at www.Haiti-cci.org.

                                                           14

 reconciliation and dialogue that will provide lasting, consensual solutions to reduce the risk of conflict
 and crisis in the country. Municipal, legislative and presidential elections are scheduled to be held in
 2005 and the transition will thus be completed by the swearing in of the newly elected President. With
 the support of the international community and the MZNUSTAH (the UN mission for the Stabilization of
 Haiti), the new Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) will need to establish the calendar for elections and
 the measures necessary to ensure that they are free, credible and transparent.

 53. The Transitional Government made an effort to include civil society and the private sector in the
 preparation of the Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF) through regional and national workshops.
 Recently, to enhance the transparency of the budget preparation and execution process, the Ministry of
 Economy and Finance presented the draft budget FY 2004-05 to representatives from the donor
 community and civil society organizations. In the context of economic governance reforms, the
 government has also committed to strengthen civil society participation in the oversight of public policies
 and service provision and to improve access to public information. Currently, the Ministry of Economy
 and Finance prepares a monthly bulletin on economic trends and a monthly update on financial operations
 which are distributed externally. However, there i s no centrally managed database of contacts for
 disseminating publications, announcements and reports. The website for the MEF (-                        i s
 outdated and there i s no staff currently managing it.

 54. Pillar 2. Strengthening economic governance and contributing to institutional development.
 The Government's transition strategy aims to make the budget process more efficient and credible, and
 tighten financial controls so as to reduce opportunities for misuse of public resources. The Government
 has made significant efforts at improving fiscal management and the budget process since it came to
 power in March 2004. While increasing revenues through a better collection rate as well as collection of
 tax arrears, the Authorities put a lid on unjustified expenditures and tightened the use of discretionary
,current accounts available to spending agencies. The Authorities thus generated a current budget surplus
 for the period April-September 2004.       However, given the great social and economic needs of the
 population and,the many areas where Government action i s needed, a better alternative to generating
 budget surpluses would be to strengthen budget processes so that Government spending could be carried
 out in a transparent and accountable manner and be targeted to priority needs.

 55. The Government plans to drastically curtail the use of discretionary accounts (comptes courants).
 Each institution will be limited to maintaining only a single account, the modalities of feeding current
 accounts (DAC) will be strictly applied, the Treasury's institutional role will be reestablished and
 reinforced, the automation of the State's financial operations will be accelerated and the use of these
 accounts will be reducedto 10percent of current non-salary expenditures . The Transitional Government
 also plans to prepare and implement the regulatory framework of the new Organic Law on the Preparation
 and Execution of Budget Laws; strengthen the system of public accountants as proposed in the new
 Organic Law; reinforce the operational capacities of public finances control structures (Treasury, Budget
 Control Office of the MEF, CSCCA, the MPCE's Office of Evaluation and Control); strengthen the
 MEF's Directorate of Fiscal Inspection that is charged with overseeing revenue collection entities
 (including revenues collected on agencies' <<OwnFunds>>)as well as private and public enterprises; and
 establish a Directorate of Financial Inspections. The Authorities plan to strengthen the process of
 preparing the budget in general and the investment budget in particular. Initial steps were made in the
 preparation of the recently approved budget for fiscal year 2005 where the Authorities linked their
 investment budget with expected disbursement by donors (consistent with the pledges made at the July
  19-20 donors meeting).

 56. The Transitional Government also plans to maximize the State's resource mobilization capacity (with
 the objective of raising the tax revenues to GDP ratio from 8.7 percent in FY2003-04 to 9.4 percent in
 FY2004-05 by reducing tax evasion, limiting tax exemptions and exonerations, completing and
 implementing the strategic plans for the reorganization and modernization o f the structures of the
 Directorate General of Taxes and that of Customs Administration. The Authorities efforts to improve
 revenue administration i s being supported by the IDB and the IMF.

                                                     15

57. In the context of the Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF), the Transitional Government plans to
strengthen public procurement by establishing a central control mechanism for Government contracting.
In order to fill the void in the existing system, an interimcentral procurement commission will be created,
composed of members selected on a competitive basis (with private sector and civil society participation
in the selection process).     This Interim Procurement Commission will be supported by specialized
procurement consultants who will be hired for a period of 12 months to provide technical support to the
Interim Commission.        The commission will review all bid evaluations for contracts above a given
threshold to be established, and will approve contract award recommendations before contracts can be
signed by the relevant spending agencies. The commission's approval will be mandatory. In addition,
the Commission will be responsible for building procurement capacity in 4 to 5 key spending agencies,
preparing and issuing standard bidding documents to clarify required procedures, and reinforcing
transparency by publicizing bid and contract information and establishing a database of suppliers to the
government. The Commission will also work to strengthen private sector capacity to participate in public
procurement processes, to prepare legal instruments as requiredto clarify interpretations of the existing
law, and to consolidate and fine-tune the legislative and regulatory framework in preparation for deeper
reforms beyond 2006.

58. The Transitional Government has stated its determination to fight corruption in the public sector and
indicated its willingness for both preventative and punitive measures. On July 8-9, 2004, the Finance
Ministry organized a workshop where international experts served as resource persons in discussing the
establishment of an anti-corruption unit as well as a broader anti-corruption strategy. On July 23, the
Transitional Government also participated in a seminar organized by the local branch of Transparency
International were the linkages between the proposed anti-corruption unit and national efforts to promote
integrity and fight corruption were debated. At the request of the Government, the Bank will provide
technical assistance to the newly created Anti-Corruption Unit, through a LICUS grant for economic
governance support. The Government also sought the advice and support of other bilateral and
multilateraldonors, and USAID and the Inter-American Development Bank agreed to support the strategy
with substantial financial resources. On September 30, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance
inaugurated the anti-corruption unit created by a recent decree. The appointment of the Head of the unit
has been formalized by a presidential decision. Recruitment notices for eight senior positions, published
in two national newspapers in September, received large numbers of responses, and two top key staff of
the unit have been selected.

59. The Transitional Government plans to significantly strengthen the quality of human resources in the
public sector in support of the implementation of the ICF. This will include actions to hire new staff at
the decision, conceptual and execution levels including by tapping the expertise of Haitians living abroad,
short and medium-term training of current staff including in existing training institutions in Haiti, and
retention of existing qualified staff through a system of incentives and a competitive remuneration
package. The fiscal implications for the hiring of this additional personnel for key public sector functions
has been incorporatedin the FY2004-05 Budget. The Transitional Government plans to create capacity to
monitor economic governance policies and programs, including through a partnership with civil society;
reinforce the capacity to generate and disseminate economic and statistical information; and explore the
prospects of establishing a network of electronic communication within the public service. To
complement this, support i s planned to start establishing decentralized participatory structures for the
preparation of strategic action programs at the local level. In parallel, it will be necessary to put in place
mechanisms to coordinate these decentralized activities.        In addition, the transition strategy aims to
develop and validate policies for decentralization, regional, urban and local development for submission
to the next government.

60. Pillar 3. Promoting economic recovery. Aware of the population's expectations to seek a quick
turnaround of the economic situation, the Transitional Government is trying to create the conditions for
economic recovery and job creation. As part of this effort, the Transitional Government has formulated a
 macroeconomic program for the fiscal year 2004-05 (October 2004-September 2005) in consultation with
IMF staff, to ensure the macroeconomic stability required for sound investment decisions by the private

                                                      16

sector.   The Government has requested an IMF Emergency Post Conflict Assistance (EPCA) to
implement its macroeconomic stabilization program. The Authorities' program supported by the EPCA
seeks to promote macroeconomic stability and administrative and institutional capacity, necessary to
sustain economic recovery and reduce poverty. The provision of key public services and investment will
be increased, usingavailable government revenues and external assistance. In line with this approach, the
FY2004/05 budget targets an overall deficit of 6 percent of GDP to be fully financed by external
assistance; Government revenue would more than cover current expenditure while public investment
would largely be financed by external resources. Revenues are projected to increase to 9.4 percent in
FY2004-05 from 8.7 percent of GDP in FY2003-04, reflectingprimarily a broader tax base, better tax and
customs enforcement and recovery of economic activity. Central Government expenditures would be
contained at 15.3 percent of GDP. The wage bill will increase 2.9 percent of GDP in FY2003-04 to 3.6
percent of GDP in FY2004-05 to provide for recruiting and maintaining quality staff and increasing
employment in such sectors as security, education and health. The monetary program aims to lower
inflation to 12 percent in 2004/05 by tightening monetary conditions to lower inflation expectations. To
reduce vulnerability to external shocks, the program also targets an increase in official reserves to the
equivalent of 1.7 months of imports of goods and services by end FY2004-05. The authorities will
regularize arrears to the World Bank and intend to initiate discussions with Paris Club creditors on the
options for addressing bilateral arrears. And aid coordination mechanism has been established. Key
structural measures will include the completion of a census of employment of the ministries and key
public enterprises by end-March 2005; progress in the financial audit of public enterprises, completion of
a comprehensive survey to identify domestic arrears of the Central Government by end-March 2005 and
establish a strategy by endJune 2005 to clear them.

61. The transition strategy also aims to reestablish electricity supply, to improve service quality and
improve the functioning of EDH. A medium-term management contract (5 years) and the implementation
of a medium-term investment plan are envisaged.          Similarly, the Government plans to improve the
management of telephone utility (Teleco) possibly by transferring its management to the private sector.
Government efforts will also aim to strengthen the regulatory environment in the electricity and
telecommunications sectors in view of the planned strategy to attract private sector to manage the public
enterprises in those sectors. For the management of ports and airports, the strategy i s to improve the
transparency in the management of the relevant public enterprises, identify and immediately put in place
essential investments as well as prepare the reforms necessary for modernization. For the water sector,
the Authorities plan to improve the delivery capacity of the rural water company (SNEP), and improve
 the management of the urban water company (CAMEP), including improvements to the commercial
 system, the introduction of a new volumetric tariff, changes to the company's internal structure and
 improved communication with users.

 62. In order to support the creation of jobs, the transition strategy aims to support the recovery of the
 private sector and the small- and medium- size enterprises and industries through the creation of a
 recapitalization fund for businesses that were affected by the events of February-March 2004, and of a
 mutual guarantee fund for small companies, and by the injection of financial resources into the micro-
 finance system.     The Government also plans to strengthen the institutional set-up for investment
 promotion and private sector development through the creation of one-stop shop offices, promotional
 activities for tourism and arts and crafts, institutionalizing public-private consultations and revising the
 legal framework for business development. Considering that most employment in Haiti i s in the informal
 sector, the Government's strategy includes a rapid employment creation program with the objective of
 creating 600,000 jobs over the next two years as a boost to the informal sector job market.

 63. Critically, the Government intends to put in place both an institutional and financial framework to
 guarantee the sustainability of investments in the road network. In July 2003, a law creating the road
 maintenance fund (fonds d'entretien routier - FER - in French) was passed. The FER is based on the
 successful experience of other countries in the region. In September 2004, the FER'SManaging Director
 was appointed. The FER will operate with financing from earmarked taxes and charges. The various taxes
 earmarked to finance the FER could raise up to US$2 million annually. The gasoline tax only (1 Gourde

                                                     17

per gallon) could raise up to US$1 million given 2002 imports (913 million barrels). The same tax applied
on diesel could raise even larger resources, given 2002 imports (2.2 million barrels). With annual
investment resources of US$2 million, the FER would be able to cover routine maintenance for the
network currently in good or acceptable condition (i.e. to preserve the current situation in terms of road
conditions). Resources would have to be raised if, in the future, the road rehabilitation programs increase
the stock of roads to be maintainedby the FER.

64. The Transitional Government also envisages to contribute to a rapid recovery of agricultural
operations and the rural economy by, inter alia, rehabilitating irrigation infrastructures, providing
technical advice to small farmers, and improving the institutional framework and governance of the
agriculture sector through the creation of research and development centers, staff training and improved
inter-agency coordination. However, the impact and sustainability of these efforts i s threatened by the
advanced deterioration of the environment. The recent floods of May and September 2004 remind us that
Haiti is extremely vulnerable to natural calamities, a situation that i s aggravated by the deterioration of
the environment, the very high levels of poverty, the social vulnerability of its population, and the lack of
control over its rural and urban space. The Transitional Government therefore plans to actively promote
the replacement of wood, fight the deterioration of land and natural resources, promote reforestation, and
improve risk and disaster management.

65. Pillar 4. Improving access to basic services. A significant part of the population is excluded from
access to basic services. The deterioration of the socioeconomic and political situation at the beginning of
2004 made the need for humanitarian assistance and protection very urgent, and access to basic services
became even more rare. In the education sector, the transition strategy aims in the short-term to organize,
manage and finance school supplies, school feeding programs and teacher salaries for a normal school
year 2004/05. Over the next 12 months, it seeks to improve overall governance of the education sector,
 including the establishment of an Office for Partnership between the Public and Private Sectors and
 increased capacity to set and enforce standards for educational quality. This will ultimately enable the
 Government to implement financing mechanisms which reduce schooling costs for poorest households,
 thereby increasing access to basic education. For vocational training, the plan is to facilitate access and
 increase the relevance and quality of professional training, and to strengthen the capacities of the National
 Institute for Professional Training, although resources available for this are extremely limited. For the
 university sector, the plan i s to rehabilitate the University o f Haiti (particularly the 5 facultks damaged
 during riots in December 2003) and prepare a reform of higher education, with the objective o f improving
 access as well as the quality of education offered.

 66. In the health sector, the Government's transition strategy aims to restart operations in the main
 hospitals, extend the MinimumPackage of Health Services to 2,500,000 Haitians in 15 health districts,
 strengthen the MSPP's capacity for planning, management and coordination with the private sector, and
 strengthen public-private partnership for health service delivery through micro-insurance schemes,
 especially outside the capital city.     Further, it targets priority programs such as essential drugs and
 medical supplies, prevention and therapeutic care for malnourished infants and women, people affected
 by HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, and systematic vaccination of children under one-year of age. As for
 potable water and sanitation, the plan i s to increase the production capacity in urban areas in order to be
 able to provide water on average for four hours per day (currently there is often no service for days), to
 strengthen the institutional capacities of the sector, and improve the services provided, particularly to
 vulnerable groups in urban and rural areas. With respect to Tood security, the transition strategy seeks to
 ensure the harmonization of inter-sectoral and inter-institutional interventions by strengthening the
 institutional and legal framework of the National Coordination for Food Security.

 67. In addition to health and education, the transition strategy covers other areas related to access to basic
  services. The transition strategy for slum upgrading aims to physically improve certain shantytowns in the
 Port-au-Prince Metropolitan area and in secondary cities in the country, prepare the participatory
  formulation of a National Program for Improvement of the Urban Environment, and institutionally
  strengthen the ministries and town councils involved in this sector. The transition strategy for waste

                                                      18

management aims to ensure the effective and efficient collectiodremoval o f solid waste in the Port-au-
Prince    metropolitan     area   and    principal   secondary     communities      along  with     adequate
processing/elimination of solid wastes. Strengthening the legal, institutional and financial framework for
solid waste management at the national and municipal level i s also envisaged. To strengthen the social
safety nets, the Transitional Government strategy includes the improvement of identification documents
for citizens, improvement of school feeding and nutrition programs, strengthening of the technical
capacity of private sector/NGO micro-insurance providers, creation of solidarity funds to leverage
workers remittances to finance community projects, and provision of direct support to the most vulnerable
members of society.

                                 PARTIV. THEPROPOSED            OPERATION

A. Objectives and description

Objectives

68. The main objective of the proposed operation is to support the efforts of the Government to
implement economic governance reform measures. Weaknesses in economic governance represent one of
the most serious obstacles to economic growth and poverty reduction in Haiti. Hence addressing the issue
of economic governance ranks among the priorities of the Transitional Government as outlined in the
Interim Cooperation Framework. Specifically, the proposed operation will support Government's efforts
to adopt measures that will increase the transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources and
external assistance with the increasing participation of the private sector and civil society in decision-
making and the provision of services. While the operation supports the implementation of an array of
economic governance measures (see the Letter of Development Policy and Policy Matrix in Annex 5), in
the interest of sk'ectivity however, only a few of those measures are proposed to be retained as tranche
release conditionalities for the proposed EGRO (see Table 2 on proposedtranche release conditionalities).

Description

a.     Ensuring a sound macroeconomicframework

69. A key element of the Government's strategy i s the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic
framework through the satisfactory implementation of the macroeconomic program prepared in
consultation with the staff of the IMF. The Government has prepared a macroeconomic stabilization
program for October 2004-September 2005 and has requested an IMF Emergency Post Conflict
Assistance (EPCA) to help implement its program (see paragraph 60). Presentation of the EGRO to the
Board will follow the acceptance by IMF management of the signed Letter of Intent for the EPCA
program. The success of the EGRO will depend on maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework
as evidenced for example by the continued successful implementation of the Government's
macroeconomic stabilization program supported by the IMF.

b.      Undertaking high impact reforms in core economic governance areas

70. Since it came to power in March 2004, the Government has made significant efforts at improving
fiscal management and the budget process. While increasing revenues through a better collection rate as
well as collection of tax arrears, the Authorities put a lid on unjustified expenditures and tightened the use
of ministerial current accounts available to spending agencies. The Authorities thus generated a current
budget surplus for the period April-September. However, given the great social and economic needs of
the population and the many areas where Government action is needed, a better alternative to generating
budget surpluses is to strengthen budget management and financial controls so that Government
spending could be carried out in a transparent and accountable manner and for priority needs. With a
government budget for 2004-05 more than 22 percent higher than in the previous year and with an
expected jump in additional funding coming from the international community to fund development
projects in the public sector, the need to increase the capacity of public sector institutions involved in
                                                    19

budget execution i s greater. In parallel with improvements in the capacity of budgetary institutions, it is
critical to put in place the steps required to tightenfinancial controls in the public sector. The proposed
operation will support the Government efforts to increase the efficiency and effectiveness in public
expenditures management. This objective will be achieved through the implementing of the new Organic
Law on the Preparation and Execution of Budget Laws, that will allow timely budget preparation, more
transparency in the allocation of resources and a better linkage to development objectives, more efficient
and more transparent budget execution processes, strengthened internal and external financial controls,
strengthened presence of public accountants in spending ministries, the creation of the corps of financial
controllers and the tightening of accountability of government authorizing officers, and the restructuring
of the supreme audit institution.

71. The program supported by the proposed operation includes the preparation and adoption in a timely
fashion (at the Cabinet level) of a FY2004-05 Budget (October 2004-September 2005), as well as its
execution, that i s consistent with sectoral policy choices and reform programs identified in the ICF. The
FY2004-05 Budget was recently approved by the Council o f Ministers allowing the country for the first
time in many years to start the fiscal year with an approved budget. The FY2004-05 budget was prepared
in consultation with the donor community and incorporates detailed recommendations provided by the
World Bank in September 2004. It broadly reflects the financial implications of the measures included in
the Government' s economic governance matrix supported by the proposed operation. Moreover, the
Authorities briefed civil society twice and donors twice during the preparation of the FY2004-05 budget,
and significantly improved the allocation of public expenditures towards the social sectors. The proposed
operation supports measures that will help increase budget execution capacity, although this i s a medium
to long term endeavor whose outcome may not be visible during the life of the EGRO.

72. The program also aims at rationalizing the planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation of the
Public Sector Investment Program, includingthrough adequate staffing of key directorates in the Ministry
of Planning as well as in 4-5 key Ministries involved in the implementation of the public investment
program and a stronger coordination between the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, and sectoral Ministries. An effort was made by the Authorities to link Government's investment
budget included in the FY2004-05 budget with expected disbursements from donors, a positive step
toward reinforcing the developmental orientation of Government's capital expenditures. Beyond the
short-term, efforts are needed to develop a medium-term public investment program that represents of
planning tool for critical development interventions. The Government also intends to design and adopt a
framework for monitoring the poverw content and impact of public expenditures; and promote the
poverty-reduction and economic-growth orientation of public expenditures through public information
and workshops.

73. A key element of the Government's economic governance program supported by this credit i s the
projected significant reduction in the share o f public expenditures transiting through agencies'
discretionary accounts (comptes courants) and the design of an institutional framework for controlling
future use of comptes courants. The proposed operation would also support the implementation of key
components of the recently approved framework for strengthening ex-ante financial controls in the use of
public finances; the strengthening of ex-post control/audit of Government financial operations through a
comprehensive program to build the capacity of the Cour Supe`rieure des Comptes et du Contentieux
Administratif (CSCCA); the review of the adaptability o f the existing automated system of financial
information and management to determine its suitability for future needs, including the reduction in the
use of comptes courants.

74. The proposed operation would support critical actions to improve the transparency and efficiency of
public sector procurement. These include the creation of, and capacity building in, an interim central
procurement commission; recruitment of specialized procurement consultants to work with the Interim
Procurement Commission; establishment of mechanisms for procurement monitoring and reporting;
delivery of training to begin building procurement capacity in key purchasing Ministries; and preparation


                                                     20

   o f new legislation and regulations required for longer term, more permanent reforms in the existing
   institutionalframework for public procurement.

   75. The actions supported by the EGRO in the design and implementation of an institutional arrangement
   and strategy for fighting corruption in the public sector are designed in close coordination with other
   donors, particularly USAID and IDB.The EGRO supports the creation and staffing of the anti-corruption
   unit and seeing that its early actions help establish a sustainable platform for broadening the strategy in
   the future. The unit i s charged with developing a clear mandate to fight corruption in the public sector,
   implementation o f the OAS convention on corruption, development and implementation of a civil service
   code of ethics, implementation of a survey on the fight against corruption as part of a civil society-public
   sector partnership for designing the institutional framework for a broader anti-corruption machinery (e.g.
   an anti-corruption commission) in the longer term. The anti-corruption unit i s developing a staff training
   plan that will focus on international best practices, and lessons learned from the successful and less
   successful efforts across the globe. WBI will contribute to this strategy through technical assistance and
   on-site training programs. The Government has agreed to support and contribute to a detailed diagnostic
   survey of corruption in Haiti that will add to and complete the work that was started in 2003 by the local
   branch of Transparency International (Fondation He`ritage Hai'ti). Such a survey will give the anti-
   corruption unit a rich source of information about the size and shape of corruption in Haiti and aid in the
   design of strategies. The WBI will contribute to this survey with technical assistance and will seek
   financial support for it through its trust funds and on-going programs with bilateral donors.

   76. To remove the bottleneck represented by weak institutional capacity and human resources in the
   public sector, the Government program supported by the proposed operation also includes the design and
   adoption by the Cabinet of a national human resource management and institutional capacity building
   action plan for the successful implementation of the ICF over 2004-2006; and implementation of the
,  action plan.

   e.      Key economic governance reforms at the sectoral level

   77. Infrastructure management and transparency in the management of public enterprises. As part of its
   efforts to improve the management and transparency of key public enterprises, the Government intends to
   hire international audit firms and management review consultants to undertake financial audits,
   management reviews, and prepare management contracts for the following key public enterprises: EDH,
   Teleco, CAMEP, APN and AAN.' The accounting rehabilitation of Teleco has just been completed, the
   bid for the financial audit and management study of CAMEP has been launched (to be financed by the
   IDB), the invitation to bid for the audit of APN has just been launched (to be financed by the World
   Bank), and the bid for the pre-audit of EDHhas also been launched (to be financed by the EU).

   78. Governance of the road maintenance fund. In an effort to implement an efficient and sustainable
   mechanism for road maintenance in Haiti, the Government has outlined measures to make the FER fully
   operational. The Government has appointed a Director of the FER and just completed the appointment of
   FER's Board members as specified in the FER law. The Government has ensured that the FY2004/2005
   budget includes sufficient budgetary resources for the FER. During the following months, the FER's
   Managing Director and Board will accomplish the necessary steps as specified in the FER law, to enable
   the FER to sign its first maintenance contract by April-May 2005. Key steps will include in particular (1)
   the publication by the MTFTC of the list o f roads eligible to FER's financing, (2) the approval by the
   Board of the operational manual and of the budget and program plans for the coming three years and (3)
   the preparation of the standard procurement documents to contract private enterprises for road
   maintenance activities.



    ' Although annual audits for public enterprises are required by law, they are not systematically done or have receivedlittle
   follow-up. One of the objectives of the Transitional Govemment is to re-establishatradition of annual audit in the public
   enterprises.
                                                                 21

79. Public-Private Partnerships for Improved Social Services. To improve the governance of the
education sector (where private education accounts for 80 percent of enrollments), the operation will
support Government's efforts to: (a) establish an Office of Public-Private Partnership, jointly staffed by
MENJS and private educational organizations; (b) develop an Operational Manual for public financing of
accredited private schools which i s validated by all key education stakeholders, and (c) initiate financial
transfers to at least ten (10) private schools serving poor households. Transparency will be enhanced
through public information regarding the process for public accreditation of private schools and specific
financial transfers to private schools serving poor households (information shared with the media, civil
society organizations, and parent-teacher associations of participating schools). Educational standards
will be enforced through a national policy and plan for supervision and quality control of all basic
education schools.

80. To expand access to basic health services (particularly outside of Port-au-Prince) and improve health
sector governance, the operation will support the Government's plan to issue a Ministerial decree
empowering public health facilities to sign contracts for provision of health services financed through
micro-insurance agencies, while defining the legal and regulatory framework and strengthening the
capacity of the Ministry of Health to regulate these contracts, strengthen private/public partnerships, and
lead the coordination of international cooperation in the health sector.

d.     Civil society monitoring and communication around economic governance reforms

81. In order to generate support for the economic governance reform program and maximize its
sustainability while ensuring that it i s carried out in an effective and transparent manner, an Oversight
Committee comprised of CSOs i s to be established to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the
reform program in the area of economic governance. To ensure the neutrality and objectivity of the M&E
mechanism as well as its focus on results, this Oversight Committee will be composed of high level
representatives of civil society networks, selected in a transparent way. The Oversight Committee will be
in charge of selecting an Executive Secretariat through a competitive biddingprocess which, in turn, will
be responsible for the competitive selection of Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) with specific expertise
in each area to monitor the following five reform areas: (1) budget preparation and execution including
allocation of public resources, (2) public-private partnership and governance of service provision in the
areas of health and education, (3) transparent management of public enterprises and the road maintenance
fund, (4) public procurement and fight against corruption, and (5) communication and public information
on economic governance programs. The Executive Secretariat will receive the reports elaborated by the
respective CSOs, verify their quality and submit the reports to the Oversight Committee. The results and
recommendations based on the monitoring process will be publicly disseminated through workshops, the
media and other communication tools.

 82. Communication and access to timely updated and reliable information i s crucial for effective citizen
engagement and a pre-requisite for informed, inclusive governance. In this respect, it is crucial that
actions be undertaken to provide access to comprehensive information on public government budgets and
expenditures in a way that i s accessible and understandable to the broad public. A first step in this regard
 would be an assessment of existing government capacity to provide access to comprehensive information
 in this area. The assessment should include an analysis on how to update and further disaggregate the
 information currently available in SYSDEP (the integrated financial management system), an analysis of
users needs (both within government and civil society) and proposals for the access of this information at
 national and local levels through web-based and other forms so that a broad array of citizens can have
 access to information regarding the use of public resources.

 83. Information on other components of the economic governance reform program, aimed at both
 agencies and institutions inside the public sector (ministries, public enterprises and other relevant
 agencies) as well as the broader public (private sector, CSOs, and the larger population) will also be
 widely disseminated. A communication strategy will be developed with the support of a professional
 communications firm, to ensure that the government can most effectively meet its economic governance

                                                    22

reform objectives o f 1) increasing transparency through the disclosure and publishing o f documents and
reports on how public resources are used; 2) increasing access to information and understanding of
economic governance reforms, both internally and externally; and 3) promoting consensus and ownership
of these reforms.      The implementation of the communication strategy will provide "real-time"
information, for example on how budgets are being executed and how tax revenues are evolving.
Combined with the introduction of a civil society monitoring mechanism, this new approach of two-way
communication, transparency and oversight offers Haiti the potential to move toward a significantly new
approach of public policy making. In addition, to guarantee the usefulness of an access to information
tool, it i s important to begin to build a reliable base of statistical information that will provide
complementary information on projects, their outputs and the impact of programs. In doing so, in the
future Haitian citizens will be able to know what programs the government i s fundingand what the results
and impacts of these are and to compare this to commitments made. This will leadto a more informed and
responsible state-society interaction and the building of trust and confidence in public institutions.
Information on the nature and benefits of economic governance reforms will also contribute to build a
constituency and citizenry expectations for improved public sector transparency and accountability and
will hopefully contribute to increase the sustainability o f these reforms.

84. The Government approved a budget for fiscal FY2004-05 that incorporated the financing of the above
reforms (see Annex 6) as well as critical expenditures geared at repaying the country's international
arrears, providing basic services to the population, creating jobs, initiating efforts to protect the
environment and better manage environmental related risks. To meet these needs, the Government's
budget for fiscal FY2004-05 i s 22 percent higher than the previous year's revised budget. While the
Government budget relies on a stronger revenue effort, it will also rely on the committed significant
external financing so as not to continue the policy of financing the deficit through inflationary financing
from the Central Bank and through arrears accumulation v i s - h i s external as well as internalcreditors.

B. Rationale

Consistency with the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)

85. The Transitional Government has shown its keen interest in breaking with past practices of
mismanagement o f public financial resources, and as detailed in the TSS, the Bank intends to seize on the
window of opportunity available to support that historic effort on the part of the Government. The
proposed EGRO i s the main instrument for pursuing the objective of improving transparency and
accountability of public officials in the use of public sector financial resources, and creating a culture of
civil society and public participation in the monitoring o f economic governance reforms. Pursuing this
objective successfully will contribute to reducing risks o f social tensions and conflicts as the population
gains a better understanding of government actions and becomes a partner with a vested interest in the
success of ongoing reforms. The EGRO will also help implement sound govemance-related policies at
the sectoral level andthus prepare the ground for IDA investment lending inFY2006.

Complementarity with other Bank activities

86. The proposed EGRO builds on the technical assistance recently provided to the Government for the
preparation of the ICF and additional technical assistance to be provided through the recently approved
LICUS grant on economic governance (US$1.5 million). The grant is providing support to improve
public procurement, financial controls, budget processes, anti-corruption efforts, and transparency in the
management of public enterprises. The recently approved LICUS grant for Public-Private Partnerships i s
providing the financing for the technical assistance and other activities required to complete the reform
program outlined above for the education sector.         This technical assistance (US$300,000) includes
consultants, training, minimal office equipment and technology for the Office of Public-Private
Partnerships, and financing for workshops and travel required to involve all key education stakeholders in
this process. The assistance provided through the LICUS grants will thus improve the capacity of public
institutions involved in the implementation of reforms supported by the proposed credit. The proposed

                                                   23

EGRO would also complement Bank activities in a forward-looking manner by supporting reforms in
sectoral areas where the Bank might finance investment operations in the near future. This is consistent
with the 2002 Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) that recommended that "any strategy for a renewed
assistance program for Haiti would have to start with measures to strengthen and to increase the
accountability and transparency of the country's governing system, including the management of public
expenditure".

87. The services of an international procurement firm to provide technical support to the Interim
Procurement Commission will be financed by the LICUS grant and the IDA technical assistance grant
now under preparation.      Additional assistance, to both the new Commission and the purchasing
Ministries, will be required from local consultants to help deliver training, prepare standard bidding
documents and help with the drafting of new procurement legislation. The Bank will provide technical
assistance to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the creation o f its communication and outreach
office and for launchingits communications program.

88. The proposed operation will be closely linked with the IDA technical assistance project under
preparation in order to ensure a close coordination o f technical assistance provided by the World Bank
and other development institutions to strengthen capacity for implementingthe reform program supported
by the EGRO. Significant efforts will be needed to coordinate technical assistance in a way that reduces
risks of overlaps, oversight of critical gaps, timeliness, and constructive interface between different
providers (both at donor level and at the TA provider level). The IDA technical assistance project will
provide a mechanismfor ensuring adequate inter-donor interface.

Complementarity with other developmentpartner programs

89. The proposed EGRO complements other development partners involved in the area of economic
governance, mainly the IDB, the IMF, the EU and the US. The specific areas for IDA'Ssupport have
been identified in close coordination and synergy with the technical and financial support providedby the
other development partners as part of the preparation o f the ICF and building on the Bank's comparative
advantage o f working with Government and civil society to strengthen institutional capacity and
implement reforms for improved economic governance. Key donors involved in the area of economic
governance (IDB and IMF) will continue to be associated during implementation of the program
supported by the operation.

90. A Letter of Intent (LOI) underpinningthe Government's macroeconomic stabilization program to be
supported by an IMF Emergence Post Conflict Assistance (EPCA) has been signed by the Government.
Annex 7 describes the status of Haiti's relations with the IMF.

91. Although not an active partner in the financing of technical assistance for this component, the IDB
shares the Bank's interest in strengthening govemment procurement capacity around a standard set o f
procedures to ensure effective implementation of investment projects. USAID and IDB collaborate with
the Bank in the area of Anti-Corruption, and USAID i s active in the area of strengthening civil society
and community media. IDB i s financing a technical assistance grant to strengthen budgetary institutions
and another technical assistance grant to strengthen revenue collection agencies. The World Bank is
working with CARTAC to bring complementary assistance to support the reform o f budget processes
(overall framework for public expenditure management, integrated financial management system, and
implementation of the new Organic Law on the Budget). In the past couple o f years, the IDB and the
IMF have used policy-based loans and macroeconomic programs respectively to encourage the
Authorities to reduce the use of comptes courants. Bank staff have coordinated with the IDB and the IMF,
and it i s felt that the EGRO will bring value in supporting Government's effort to more decisively limit
the use o f comptes courants and tighten the criteria defining circumstances in which they can be used.

92. The entire donors' community active in the transport sector in Haiti has supported the creation o f the
FER. Many of them have put the creation or the strengthening of the FER as an objective for their own
programs. The donors' community has also offered significant technical assistance to help the setting up
                                                   ,24

of the FER.For example, the IDB i s assisting the MTPTC in elaborating a road inventory. This will be a
crucial decision tool to identify the road segments where the FER should be active. It will also help
monitoring FER's interventions and impact on roads' conditions. The EU has earmarked significant
resources (US$1 million) to help the setting up of the FER, including to buy equipments necessary for its
operations (computers, vehicles, etc.). Critical areas where technical assistance i s needed include the
preparation o f key operational documents (procurement documents, operational manual, budget and
program plans, etc.) and facilitating access of FER's management to similar successful international
experience (eg. the road funds in El Salvador and Guatemala). Inthe event that other donors' assistance i s
insufficient, the Bank would explore the possibility of providing additional technical assistance (eg. under
a PPIAFagreement).

93. In the water sector, there i s a close partnership with IDB which i s financing the financial audit and
technical review o f CAMEP under a current loan. The French Development Agency and the European
Commission are financing "water kiosks" in slum areas in Port-au-Prince that are operated by water
committees and receive water from CAMEP. The European Union and the Canadian International
Development Agency have committed to financing respectively the accounting rehabilitation (pre-audit)
and financial audit of EDHand the French Cooperation Agency has shown interest in financing technical
audits of specific equipments of EDH.

94. The Office of Public-Private Partnership will be established intandem with institutional strengthening
of the Department for Private Education financed by USAID. USAID has allocated US$650,000 to
improve the Ministry's capacity to accredit private schools - this will include computers, training,
technical assistance and other inputs so that the large backlog of accreditation requests can be processed.'
This accreditation process is an essential component to the development of financing mechanisms.
Regarding communication around economic governance reforms, USAID is providing support to
community radio stations and where possible linkages will be made between the EGRO and USAID
program.

Lessons learnedfrom past assistance

95. Over the past ten years of extemal aid, more than US$2.6 billion have been provided by various
donors, to which must be added close to US$4 billion in remittances, primarily from North America.
Nevertheless, it must be noted that the results fall far short of the expectations and needs of Haiti's
population. The international community assumes part o f the responsibility for this failure. The donors
recognize a lack of coordination, of consistency and o f strategic vision in their interventions. Donors have
often set up parallel project implementation structures that weakened the State, without, however, giving
 it the means to coordinate this extemal aid and improve national absorptive and execution capacities. The
political crisis since 2000 has also led donors to suddenly withdraw institutional support. Structural
 interventions have been rare. Few projects were undertaken to improve the management and governance
 of institutions. Recourse to the private sector or to civil society had become routine, contributing to a
 further weakening of the civil service. Lack of continuity in donor interventions (mainly due to political
 instability), as well as the political crisis within the Parliament, has severely handicapped the strategic and
 sectoral policies of the Government. It i s now acknowledged that the cycle of massive extemal financing
 followed by sudden withdrawal i s counter-productive and that it i s important to maintain steady support
 for strengthening the public sector's institutional capacity.

 96. On the Government side, weaknesses in the rule o f law and lack o f transparency in public resource
 management have led to corruption, insecurity and impunity and have discouraged productive
 investments by the private sector. Nevertheless, it should be noted that some progress has been made in
 recent years, paradoxically with the impetus provided by the socio-economic crisis. Local participation is
 regularly sought out by donors and government for projects. In addition, the participation of the press in


 ' Oftheapproximately 12,500 private schools in Haiti, only an estimated 2,500 are accredited by the MENJS. The rest operate
 without any legal authorization or oversight by the MENJS.
                                                            25

the process of democratic construction, despite the repeated threats against freedom of expression, must
be highlighted as a remarkable achievement. Finally, it is important to note a broad consensus on the
importance of a private-public partnership.

97. Rebuilding institutions and improving economic governance are central to any sustainable growth and
poverty reduction in Haiti.            The latest Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) prepared by OED
substantiates this position. The CAE indicates that Bank assistance to Haiti over the period 1986-2001
has had very little impact due to the overall weak institutional and policy environment, poor governance,
and unsatisfactory project management arrangements.Inparticular, Bank non-project lending has come in
the form of emergency lendingwithout much attention paidto structural reforms (see Box 1).

Box 1: Past Adjustment Operationssupportedbythe Bank


1987 Economic Recovery Credit (US40 million equivalent). The ERC was a key component of the Bank's lending in Haiti
during the period between the fall of the Duvalier regime in 1986 and the 1991 intemational embargo. The ERC was an
emergency operation that supported fiscal and trade reform, which remained relatively sound for some years. The credit also
supported the closing of two loss making public industrial enterprises. OED's audit of the credit concluded, however, that it
should have addressed structural poverty and the negative social impact of stabilization. The credit disbursed US$21 million of
the total US$40 million as the second tranche was cancelled following the military coup of 1988. Sustainability was rated
unlikely, and institutionaldevelopmentimpact was modest.

1994 Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (US$40 million equivalent). Lending was interrupted during the intemational
embargo period of 1991-94. After lending resumed in 1994, the Bank Board approved an emergency credit in support of the
Govemment's Economic Emergency and Recovery Program (EERP) to provide quick balance of payments support. The credit
(EERC) was rated as having had a substantial institutional development impact or likely sustainability for its role in setting the
stage for a medium term economic policy reform program. By its nature, the EERC did not directly support structural reform or
policies. A follow-on credit (EERC2) which was to support structural reforms in critical areas such as privatization, was never
accepted by the govemment. With donors support to the government's EERP, "economic performance began to recover, but
deteriorated again, particularly on the fiscal side, in 1996 due to changes in the Govemment and run-up to the presidential
election". The new Administration took steps to improve economic management, but the political crisis in mid-1997 interrupted
 once again the implementation of critically needed reforms. Since then, the IMF has had a series of staff-monitored programs to
 help govemment maintain sound macroeconomic policies and establish a track record that could permit Fund support once the
 political crisis is resolved. However, the repeated political crises and poor implementation of SMPs prevented Haiti from
 accessingFund financial support.

 Source: World Bank, Haiti Country Assistance Evaluation (2002), Report# 23637



 98. Bank's re-engagement in Haiti follows a year of intense policy dialogue around issues affecting
 economic governance. Before this dialogue, the Bank was not a welcomed partner in the area of
 economic governance as the Government preferred dealing with other partners who had maintained an
 office or an ongoing program in the country. In keeping with the LICUS Task Force recommendations
 and the CAE recommendation "to continue to keep abreast of political and economic developments and
 collaborate with other donors in advising the Government on next steps", the Bank sent a series of
 missions to Haiti in 2003 which helped build knowledge and strengthenedthe quality of the dialogue on
 the critical economic governance issues facing the country and, in agreement with the Government and
 other donors, played akey role with the economic governancethematic group of the ICF. This has helped
 position the Bank as a credible partner for supporting well-thought out and serious reforms in economic
 governance especially in audit and restructuring of key public enterprises to ensure transparency and
 efficiency of public resource use in key infrastructure areas, public sector procurement, public
 expenditure management and public sector financial control, decentralization, as well as governance in
 key sectors such as health and education. Recent Bank participation and support for two anti-corruption
 workshops has also built Bank credibility as a critical partner in the fight against corruption in Haiti.

 C. Tranche conditions andbenchmarks

 99. The Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) i s based mainly on the Economic
 Governance thematic report it preparedin May 2004 to underpinthe ICF. The LDPwhich is includedin
                                                             26

     Annex 5 lists a number of outcome and benchmark indicators that will help gauge progress toward
     achieving the objectives of the Government program supported by the EGRO. Table 2 below lists key
      measures taken by the Government prior to Board presentation and additional measures for the release of
     the second tranche of the EGRO.

      Table 2: Actions already taken by Government and second tranche conditions

               Actions already taken by Government                                      Second Tranche Conditions

iound macroeconomic framework maintainedas evidenced for              ioundmacroeconomic framework maintainedas evidencedfor
:xampleby the successful implementationof the Govemment's             xample by the continuedsuccessful implementationof the
nacroeconomic stabilization program supported by the IMF.             ;ovemment's macroeconomic stabilization program supported
                                                                      ~ythe IMF.

3udget for FY2004-05 adoptedby Council of Ministers before            ;atisfactory executionof the FY 2004-05 approvedbudget in
)eginningof fiscal year on October 1. Budget should incorporate key   ccordance with its objectivesand approvedallocations.
lbjectives as indicated inthe four pillars of the InterimCooperation
jramework (ICF), particularly those relating to the economic
5ovemance program, and the objectives of the macroeconomic
,tabilization program. Civil society and donors consulted during
mdget preparation. Approved budget widely disseminatedinthe           Cey budget executiondata widely disseminatedto the local
:ountry through the Official Gazetteandleaflets.                      nedia.

\Ton-salarycurrentpublic expenditures disbursedthrough comptes        j o more than 10percent of cumulative non-salary current
:ourants not exceeding 15 percent for the fourth quarter of FY2003-   iublic expenditures since beginning of FY2004-05 disbursed
14 (July-September) and 10percent for the month of September          hroughcomptes courants.
2004.

Informationon use of comptes courants inpast fiscal year widely
iisseminated.

                                                                      4pproval and publication of new decree modifying the 1983
                                                                      kcree on the organizationand functioning of the CSCCA,
                                                                      :onsistent with the new Loi Organique on the preparation and
                                                                      Zxecution of Budget Laws, and satisfactory to IDA.

Adoption by Council oil\linisters of a decree. satisfactor! to IDA,   Competitiverecruitment of membersof the CNIMP completed;
for the establishment of the CSI\IP (decreealso e3tablishes           intemational procurement consultanth hired; standardbidding
procedure for defining threshold or`procurement contracts to be       documents adopted; systematic disseminationon the Intemet
re\iewed by the CSl\IP and re-affirms that public bids are the        and/or localnewspapersof the results of tenderedbids since
norm). Appointment of Coordinatorof CSl\lP. Preparation of            December 2004; creationof database of Govemment suppliers
TORSsatisfactor) to IDA. ior members of the CNI\1P.                   availableto the public throughthe CNIMP.

Adoption b) the Council of hlinisters of the ministerial decree       Datacollection from survey on corruption practices inHaiti has
authorizing the creation of an Anti-CorruptionKnit as an              been completed and first draft report on said survey has been
autonomous entity under the hlinistry or`Economy and Finance:         completed.
finalization of TORs for the Unit; appointnim of the Unit's Director
General; and key personnel in place.


Publication of the Decree inthe official gazette and disseminationto
the public at large for example during a press conference.


Letter sent to the IDA requestingpartnership in preparinga
comprehensivediagnosticsurvey on corruption practices in Haiti;
TORs for the survey are agreed with IDA.

 Appointment of the FER Director General; appointmentof members        First road maintenance contract awardedsince FER creation;
 of Board of Directors; Boardi s operational.                          contract published.

 The Govemment has undertakenthe following actions:
 .                                                                     The Govemment has undertaken the following actions for at
                                                                       .
       CAMEP: Calls for bids have been launched to recruit             least three of the five public enterprises included inthe

       intemational audit and management firms to conduct a financial  economic governance program:

       audit of CAMEP as well as a management and technical audit ir         CAMEP: Intemational audit and technicalreview firms
       preparation for its reform and management improvement                 selected for financial audit, management andtechnical
       program.                                                              audit.

                                                                    27

.   APN: Calls for bids have been launched to recruit
    intemational audit firms to conduct the financial audit of APN.     I   AAN and APN: Intemational audit firms have been
                                                                            competitively selected and financial audits of APN and
    EDH:Call for bidfor selectionof intemational firmhasbeen                A A N initiated.
    issued for accounting rehabilitation.
                                                                            EDH:Accounting rehabilitation ofEDH is ongoing and
    Teleco: Accounting rehabilitation of Teleco has been                    has progressed satisfactorily as per agreed work program;
    completed.                                                              intemational audit firm has been selected to conduct
                                                                            financial audit of EDH; the Govemment has authorized
                                                                            the launchingo f calls for bids to recruit an intemational
                                                                            firm to undertake an assessment of environmental
                                                                            liabilities as the first of a series of studies that will lead to
                                                                        .   the preparation of the Management Contract of EDH.

                                                                            Teleco: Intemational firm has been selectedto carry out
                                                                            financial audit; decision made on option for restructuring
                                                                            the sector, taking into account, inter alia, the results of a
                                                                            sector-wide review.
                                                                        Executive Secretariat hired through a competitive process.
appointed by the Minister of Economy and Finance.                       Timely provision of information requested by civil society
Decision on the modules of the economic governance program to be        organizations (which would have been competitively selected
monitored by civil society made, and information i s published in       by the Executive Secretariat) in charge of the monitoring of
local papers by Ministry of Economy and Finance.                        selected modules o f the economic governance program.

TORs for the Consultative Committee and Executive Secretariat           Monthly discussions o f monitoring results by Government,
approved by Minister of Economy and Finance (TORs will include          Executive Secretariat and civil society organizations selected
responsibility of Executive Secretariat to publish the reports preparec for monitoring of economic governance program.
by civil society organizations charged with monitoring of the
economic governance program).



      D. Implementationmonitoringandevaluation

      100. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) i s the principal executing agency and has
      responsibility for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of the program. Other ministries and agencies
      notably the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Education, the
      Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Planningand External Cooperation, and public enterprises (especially
      EdH, Teleco and CAMEP) also have key roles in executing the program, and are working closely with the
      MEF in implementing program components under their respective jurisdictions. The Government will
      provide monthly written implementation reports to the Bank.                               In turn the Bank will monitor
      implementation through quarterly supervision missions focusing on program benchmarks, reform
      outcomes (see Annex 1 of the LDP), and any unexpected policy reversals. EGRO and LICUS grant
      supervision missions as well as the planned TA operation preparation and supervision missions would
      also provide technical assistance and advisory services, in close coordination with other donors.

      E. Environmentalandsocialissues

       101. Environmental Issues. The proposed structural adjustment credit supports economic governance
       reforms that do not have direct environmental impacts. The broad steps to be taken under EGRO such as
       maintaining macroeconomic stability, improving budgetary transparency and accountability, improving
       governance and civil society participation should have a positive though indirect impact on the use of the
       environment and natural resources. However vulnerability to natural disasters continues to be a serious
       economic and environmental problem: the poor being especially vulnerable. The Government has asked
       for intemational help to assess the environmental vulnerability and implement a plan to secure the
       populations and the natural habitat.              Specific steps are envisaged in the context of the Emergency
       Recovery and Disaster Management project (ERDMP) to strengthen institutional capacity for disaster
       management and provide direct response to some of the rehabilitation needs in flood affected areas. The
       EGRO will support the preparation of an assessment of environmental liabilities as the first of a series of

                                                                      28

studies that will lead to the preparation of the Management Contract for the public electricity utility. The
terms o f reference for drafting the operational manual o f the Road Maintenance Fund which will be done
with IDA'Sassistance, will ensure that the operational manual addresses environmental concerns, based
for example on the Bank environmental code of practice.

102. Social Issues and Poverty Impact. The EGRO supports the Government's efforts to improve the
allocation, efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditure, strengthen human resource management,
transparency and accountability in the public sector and increase the country's absorption capacity for
external resources. These efforts would thus have a positive impact on public service provision and
improved environment for private sector activity, employment creation and poverty reduction.

F.      Fiduciaryarrangements

Disbursement and Auditing

103. This operation consists of two tranches with a first tranche o f US$46 million equivalent (of which
US$27.5 million equivalent in the form of credit and US$18.5 million equivalent in the form of grant) to
be disbursed upon effectiveness, and a floating second tranche o f US$15 million equivalent (of which
US$9 million in the form o f credit and US$6 million in the form of grant) upon completion of the actions
detailed in Table 2. Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for structural
adjustment loans approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Bank will disburse the foreign
currency funds proceeding for the Credit and the Grant into a dedicated account o f the Central Bank of
Haiti that forms part of the general reserves of the country. Once the Bank formally notifies the borrower
that a tranche i s available for withdrawal, the borrower may submit withdrawal application for the credit,
so that the proceeds o f the tranche are deposited by the Bank in the dedicated foreign currency account to
be used in accordance with the Credit and Grant Agreements. Disbursements would not be linked to
 specific purchases. The proceeds of the Credit and Grant would not be used to finance expenditures
excluded under the Credit and Grant Agreements.

 104. In accordance with Bank policy', the deposit account will be audited on terms of reference
 acceptable to the Bank within six months of credit and grant disbursement in accordance with
 International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm acceptable to the Bank and usingterms of
 reference acceptable to the Bank. The audit will certify that : (a) the exact sums disbursed by the World
 Bank with respect to the EGRO are paid into the designated foreign currency Deposit Account of the
 Government kept in the Central Bank exclusively for this purpose, that forms part o f the general reserves
 o f the country, and no sums are kept in or paid into the Deposit Account other than those disbursed by the
 World Bank for this particular adjustment operation; (b) all withdrawals from the foreign currency
 Deposit Account are for legitimate budgetary purposes and not to finance expenditures on the World
 Bank's negative list; (c) the financial statements o f the Deposit Account are produced in a format
 acceptable to the World Bank.

 105. The IMF has not conducted yet a safeguards assessment o f the BRH. The IMF Staff-Monitored
 Program for the period April-September 2004 includes the initiation of the preparation of the IMF
 safeguards of the BRH, which i s underway and should be finalized before the disbursement o f the IMF
 Emergency Assistance expected for early 2005. The findings of this assessment will inform the World
 Bank on the Central Bank control environment within which foreign exchange i s managed by the
 Borrower, to obtain assurance that the foreign exchange provided through this credit will not be
 inappropriately used. Consultations with the IMFduringproject preparation have not revealed any major
 cause of concern regarding the BRH control environment. BRH's annual financial statements are
 regularly audited by a private sector audit firm with an unqualified opinion.




  'Guidelines:Annual FinancialReporting and Auditing for World Bank-FinancedActivities, June 2003.
                                                         29

Procurement and Financial Management

106. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was prepared in 1999 and updated in 2003.
The CPAR and subsequent updates by Bank staff provided an input for the definition of the Government
program for procurement reform as described in the ICF and which i s a key element of the proposed
operation.

107. Although a Country Financial Accountability Assessment has not been recently conducted for
Haiti, there is sufficient information on the country's public financial management performance. This
information was primarily obtained as part of the Interim Cooperation Framework exercise that was
conducted in May 2004. Budget process and financial controls were prominent parts o f the ICF Economic
Governance thematic group, which has identified the major issues, the link to the Transitional
Government's strategy, and the necessary measures to strengthen public financial management in Haiti.
This section builds on the findings of the ICF exercise and additional work done during project
preparation to fill the knowledge gap on accounting and reporting that were insufficiently covered in the
ICF.

108. Performance of Haiti's public financial management has been relatively weak duringthe last years.
These weaknesses are noted throughout the budget processes: budgets have not been prepared on a timely
manner; transparency in the budget execution has been hampered by the pervasive use of discretionary
accounts; financial controls, both internal and external, have been generally ineffective; and public
accounts were not prepared regularly. But the Haitian authorities have been engaged in a number of
reforms to improve public financial management. A new Organic Law on preparation and execution of
finance acts] was passed by Parliament in December 2003 and published in August 2004. It organizes the
budget process, separates ex-ante financial control from ex-post audit, strengthens internal control
arrangements, and makes public accountants independent from the expenditure authorization authorities.
An automated public expenditure management system (SYSDEP) was put in place at the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and i s being expanded to key sectoral ministries and public institutions. A new
budget nomenclature has been developed and will be implemented with the 2004-05 budget. For the first
time after several years, the government has prepared the budget on time and has started to improve the
transparency and allocation of public expenditure. The FY2001-02 accounts have been finalized and are
being audited by the CSCCA. The FY2002-03 accounts were expected to be finalized at the end of
September 2004. Despite all these efforts, a lot remains to be done to have effective, efficient and
transparent public financial management in Haiti. The proposed operation would support critical actions
to improve effectiveness and efficiency in Haiti's public financial management as reflected in the policy
matrix.

 G.    Government and national ownership

 109. Government ownership of the policies and reforms supported by the proposed operation i s strong.
The proposed operation supports policies and reforms identified in three of the four strategic pillars
 outlined in the ICF, namely (i)strengthening economic governance and contributing to institutional
 development, (ii)  promoting economic recovery, and (iii)         improving access to basic services. As such,
 the policies and reforms supported by the proposed operation (a) are consistent with Government's vision
 outlined to donors on April 22 at a meeting attended by the Transition Prime Minister and President, (b)
 were subsequently presented by the Government at a meeting held on May 15, and (c) were re-confirmed
 by the Government at the July 19-20 international donors pledging conference as a critical part of its
 programfor the transition period.

 110. In several meetings between the Haitian Prime Minister, the Finance Minister, the Central Bank
 Governor and members of their teams on the one hand, and Bank Management and staff on the other
 hand, the Authorities have indicated a strong commitment to such a program and requested an adjustment
 operation to support key reforms geared at improving durably economic governance. The Minister of
 'Loi Organiquesur la PrCparationet 1'ExCcutiondes Lois de Finances
                                                         30

Finance has appointed a team to work on the preparation of the operation on the Government side and
progress has being made in the last two months. Relevant sectoral Ministries and Heads of public
enterprises have been involved in the preparation of the credit and have shown commitment to the
policies and reforms supported by the proposed operation. The next steps to ensure national ownership of
the program supported by the operation include raising awareness of, and involving civil society and the
private sector, in monitoring relevant reforms supported by the proposed operation.

H. Benefits

111. The proposed operation would significantly contribute to improving the transparency,
accountability and efficiency with which overall public resources are utilized across the public sector. It
would thus contribute to increasing resources available for critical interventions for economic recovery
and poverty reduction. The operation would also encourage and support efforts to strengthen capacity
and improve transparency in key public institutions, and lay the foundations for longer term reforms and
investments to be supported by the World Bank and other donors. The Economic Governance Reform
Program will benefit from awareness-building around the reforms outlined in the communication
component. Disseminating specific information on the reforms and its progress will enhance transparency
and further contribute to the capacity of the actors involved in participatory processes and to creating a
culture of sound economic governance.

 112. Moreover, by improving government fiscal and financial management processes, the proposed
operation would provide comfort to donors in disbursing external aid to the Government and through the
government budget, thus increasing external financing for budgetary expenditures for critical sectors in
the future. B y supporting capacity building efforts, the proposed operation would also contribute to
increasing the national absorptive capacity and therefore a faster disbursement of badly needed external
assistance committed by the international community at the international donors conference in July for
critical social and economic development interventions.

 113. Government purchasing agencies, private sector contractors, consultants and suppliers would all
 benefit from a more efficient and better regulated public purchasing system.         In addition, increased
 transparency and better monitoring o f public procurement would lead to benefits for the government and
 the public at large by reducing the scope for diversion o f government resources through fraud and
 corruption.

 114. In the areas where the FER will be actively maintaining road segments, the improvement in
 mobility i s expected to benefit the local population in terms o f improved access to basic and social
 services (e.g. water, schools, health centers) and to income-generating opportunities (e.g. markets), and
 reduced cost of basic commodities. In addition, it could facilitate access to areas concerned by natural
 disasters and, therefore, contribute to disaster management efforts.

 I. Risksandriskmitigation

 115. The operation will be camed out in an environment that presents several risks. However, these
 risks can be partly mitigated.

  116. The pace and smoothness of the political transition can be affected by events (e.g. the Government
 still does not control all o f the country, the Lavalas Party remains outside of the political pact signed by
 the Government and political parties and did not nominate its representative to the electoral council).
 Tensions between former military members and the Government, during the month of September, over
 payment of pensions and reinstatement of the army, and the recent outbreaks o f political demonstrations
 i s an indication that the success o f the forthcoming elections cannot be taken for granted. The UN and
 OAS are providing advice and technical assistance in building an inclusive political process and the
 MINUSTAH military force, whose contingent i s expected to increase in numbers in the coming months
 (as per UN Resolution 1542), i s supporting the Government's efforts to restore security throughout the

                                                      31

country. In addition, and as described above the Government transition strategy emphasized interventions
to strengthen political governance and national dialogue.

117. Weak institutional capacity and persistent corruption can limit the effectiveness of the policies and
reforms to be supported by the proposed operation and the short time frame envisaged for the EGRO may
constrain the reform achievements that can be expected under the operation. Although the Transitional
Government i s rightly emphasizing human resources management and capacity building in the public
sector and has defined a realistic transition strategy taking into account existing absorption constraints,
the transition period may prove too short to allow for lasting reforms in the civil service. To address this
risk, the donor community has responded with proposed significant technical assistance and efforts to
coordinate it effectively. More specifically, as part of the preparation of this operation as well as under
the LICUS grant, the Bank will provide technical assistance in key areas supported by the operation, and
the technical assistance will continue even after the disbursement of the last tranche of the EGRO through
the technical assistance IDA credit currently under preparation (with Board presentation planned for Q4
FY05).

118. The awareness of civil society and the broader population on the efforts being made by the
Government i s low; this can undermine national ownership of the policies and program supported by the
proposed operation. But government has started to make efforts to be more inclusive as part of ICF
process and the proposed operation includes measures to further involve civil society in monitoring of
selected measures and to systematically inform relevant stakeholders and the public at large on the
content and objectives of the planned reforms. B y fostering broad civil society participation in economic
governance, the proposed operation will help mitigate this risk.

 119. The sustainability of reforms initiated by the Transitional Government and supported by the
proposed operation can be jeopardized if future Governments are less committed to transparency and
accountability in the use of public resource. While this is a difficult risk to mitigate against, the efforts to
involve civil society and the communication program are aimed at contributingto strengthen the capacity
o f the civil society actors to monitor economic governance and to creating a culture, and expectations, for
 sound economic governance on the part of public institutions.

 120. The success of policy reforms supported by this operation will depend on Haiti governments
keeping the momentum and the international community providing continued assistance. While the
tranche release measures as defined in table 2 above are feasible during the life o f the EGRO, this
 operation supports initial steps in a medium to long term reform agenda, and the impact o f the policy
 measures and reforms initiated under the EGRO may be visible only over the medium to long term.
 Sustaining the momentum for these reforms will require continued commitment on the part of the current
 and future Governments as well as a continue engagement o f the donor community. In fact, when the
 Transition Government was put in place in March, there was a consensus that the international
 community and donors needed to provide an uninterrupted support to Haiti in order to ensure the country
 overcome its perennial problem o f failed reforms, false start and reversal to instability. This long term
 commitment i s needed more than ever. However, while the international community seems to be
 committed to sustain its support to Haiti, the security situation on the ground may affect the pace and
 effectiveness of international donors support.

 121. Haiti's performance on debt service and arrear accumulation has been poor (the country
 accumulated arrears during 1991-1994 and again since 2000). Although the Transitional Government has
 committed to avoiding arrears accumulation, it has made satisfactory allocations in the FY2004-05
 Budget for debt servicing and there i s a high degree of confidence that it i s committed to sound
 macroeconomic and public finance management, past experience would tend to suggest that arrears
 accumulation could resume in the future, especially beyond the transition period, if the country were to
 enter another period of major political turmoil. Haiti's availability of resources to pay arrears will depend
 on overall macro performance, sustained economic recovery and sustained flows of external assistance-
 donors' committed support augurs well for that.

                                                    32

122. Procurement: Aside from the ongoing risks posed by the fragile political and social situation in
Haiti, the principal risks are posed by capacity constraints and potential resistance to reform by
stakeholders who benefit from the current dysfunctional system. Inadequate capacity could stall the
reform agenda if qualified Haitian professionals are not attracted in sufficient numbers to work for the
government under a new procurement framework or if the Interim Central Procurement Commission
takes too long to assume its oversight and training functions. Resistance from vested interests who
continue to profit from the current lack o f institutional capacity and controls, may delay the
implementation of reforms, despite the commitment of the Transitional Government. Prompt provision
of technical assistance will help mitigate the former risk and may create the momentum needed to address
the latter as well.

123. Comptes courants: There i s a risk that in case of a crash of the SYSDEP and delays in fixing it (as
it recently happened with the hard drive of the system), the need to use comptes courants will rise as the
normal fund request and release system would be even slower that today. Other risks o f increase in the
use o f comptes courants include a change in political commitment and the emergence of a natural disaster
or an emergency that may call for immediate fund release. The Authorities' decision to look into the
viability of SYSDEP as Government's integrated financial management system (IFMS), and possibly
adopt a more agile and easy to maintain system, might help mitigate the first risk. The hiring and training
of staff involved in budget execution will reduce elapsed time between fund request and fundrelease and
thus limit the need for reverting to comptes courants for political expediency and -to a certain extent -
during natural disasters. The planned technical assistance IDA credit will also look at further budget
execution procedure streamlining to reduce expenditure processing times.

 124. Road maintenancefund. The main risk in the short term i s that the political momentum to create
the FER lowers down. This i s why the three main donors (Bank, IDB and EU) are concerting closely in
order to support the critical steps to be accomplished by the Government in the coming months to make
the FER fully operational. Significant and specific technical assistance has also been tailored by the
donors' community to ensure that the FER management has both access to knowledge and resources to
become operational. In the medium term, it will be important to ensure the independence of the FER and
securing its budgetary resources. In particular, the tax of 1 gourde per gallon will have to be adjusted for
inflation and additional resources will have to be found if the FER's scope expands (in particular if
rehabilitation programs require the FER to become active in the maintenance of additional roads). The
preparation of the budget and program plans for the next three years - as requiredby the FER's law - will
be an important step to mitigate the risk o f FER's funding becomingunsustainable.

 125.    Anti-corruption. The Government's current strategy for addressing corruption addresses only part
 o f the problem, specifically corruption in the public sector, and i s unlikely to have much of an impact
 without an accompanying, nationwide strategy involving not only the government, but actively followed
 by the private sector and civil society. Infact the persistence of corruption practices in the private sector
 could stifle efforts to reduce corruption in the public sector as private agents lure civil servants into
 corruption practices to speed up access to public services or government contracts. Haiti has a strong
 non-governmental organization in Fondation He`ritage Hai'ti, and its attention to the corruption issue
 could help mitigate the risk that the next government undo the actions of the Transitional Government.
 This mitigation strategy could be enhanced through financial and/or technical support to Fondation
 He`ritage Hai'ti and other civil society organizations to assist them in playing an oversight and watchdog
 role. Another risk i s that the anti-corruption unit engages too quickly and too deeply in an investigative,
 punitive strate/   for fighting corruption without the credibility, the personnel or the judicial follow-up to
 do this job well.     With this strategy, the anti-corruption efforts risk entanglement in endless and
 questionable investigations. The Government has been advised at the highest levels that many other
 countries have failed in their efforts to fight corruption through government anti-corruption units focusing
 on investigative, punitive objectives, and that launching too deeply and too quickly into a punitive
 approach has been the downfall of many. The Government has agreed to mitigate this risk by carefully
 balancing investigations with attention to preventative measures, increasing transparency and awareness
 raising activities.

                                                      33

126. Social sectors. In 1999 and 2000 the MENJS agreed to establish a similar Partnership Office with
financing from USAID, but ultimately lost interest and withdrew support for the concept. This raises two
risks going forward. The first risk i s that the MENJS may not enthusiastically promote the partnership
concept at both the political and technical levels, and the second risk i s that the private sector educational
organizations expected to participate in the Office of Public-Private Partnership may refuse to do so.
Both of these risks are mitigated by several factors: (1) the Government explicitly stated in the Interim
Cooperation Framework (July 2004) that among its four key priorities for the education sector is the
"development and implementation of a Partnership Office, for enhanced accreditation and evaluation
methods while also offering a financial instrument to promote improved equity and quality in the private
education sector.. ." ;and (2) financing from USAID and the World Bank (including through the LICUS
Trust FundGrant) will helpensure afully transparent andparticipatoryprocess is available. The Minister
of Education i s quite familiar with the community of civil society organizations and has their confidence,
and the Ministry of Education has already held two important meetings with key educational
stakeholders, most notably with FONHEP (the most important private education sector association,
grouping thousands of Catholic, Protestant and most secular schools), to discuss the initiation of this
process. This included a request that FONHEP preparethe terms of reference for the re-launching of the
Commission Nationale de Partenariat.

127. Public entreprises management. The Authorities have indicated that the Conseil de Modernisation
des Entreprises Publiques (CMEP), initially created to manage the public enterprise privatization agenda,
will be responsible for coordinating and following up on the public enterprise audit and management
review agenda. To carry out its new function, CMEP may need capacity building, especially as it had
remained inactive for several years. If the Authorities' political will to reactivate CMEP is not followed
through, the audit and management review of most public enterprises might not progress in a timely
fashion, especially as the relevant sectoral ministry for most of the public enterprises seems to give
priority to the execution of large public works over institutional strengthening and reforms. To mitigate
this risk, the Authorities have increasedthe budgetary allocation to CMEP in the FY2004-05 Budget and
have announcedformally CMEP's new responsibilities.

 128. Civil society monitoring and Communication. Because of the above-cited challenges still faced by
the Haitian Civil Society, involving civil society in the monitoring of economic governance reforms and
performance evaluation of selected public services could pose three risks: (i)    not reaching a broad enough
 sector of civil society and thus creating problems of representation and credibility, (ii)   civil society does
 not have solid and reliable information necessary to effectively carry out monitoring processes, and (iii)
 lack of capacity on both the government and civil society side. These risks will be reduced by (i)     creating
 institutionalized mechanisms that engage civil society broadly, (ii)improving access to public
 information, (iii)buildingcapacities andknow how for usingspecific tools for increasedtransparencyand
 accountability. Haiti has recently experienced a series of crises that have increased social tension and
 economic difficulties. Among the general public there are varying degrees of mistrust of government
 authorities and of the international community. Expectations have been high that the government will
 quickly deliver on improved basic services and security. The communications strategy should be designed
 to take into consideration the very delicate political, social and economic context. The communications
 strategy cannot guarantee that the general public will fully understand or agree with the government's
 economic governance reform program. However, through its communications activities, the government
 can ensure that it remains transparent and more open than inthe past.

 129. In the staff`s assessment, the above risks are worth taking at this juncture of Bank-Haiti
 cooperation. The transition period provides a window of opportunity for supporting a reform-oriented
 Government in its effort to implement, in a short-time frame and a constrained institutionaland legislative
 set-up, high-impactreforms. Moreover, the staff believes that the leadership providedby the Transitional
 Government on aid coordination provides a window of opportunity for leveraging Bank's assistance by
 supporting critical reforms and policy actions in a coordinated fashion with other donors, while
 supporting risk mitigation actions to maximizethe sustainability of the reform agenda.


                                                    34

                     Haiti-Economic GovernanceReformOperation


                                       Listof Annexes




Annex 1:   Haiti At A Glance

Annex 2:   Haiti- Key Macroeconomic Indicators

Annex 3:   Haiti - Key Exposure Indicators

Annex 4 :  Haiti - Timetable for Key Processing Events

Annex 5:   Haiti - IMFRelations

Annex 6 :  Letter of Development Policy and Policy Matrix

Annex 7:   Key budget allocations for implementing Economic Governance Measures Supported
           by the EGRO




                                              35

                                                   Annex 1 Haiti at a Glance
                                                              -
                                                                   Latin       Low
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                          Haiti  America   Income         DeveloDmentdiamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                               8 2     534      2,310
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          390    3,260       450                      Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                              3 3   1,741      1,038

Average annual growth, 1997-03                                                                                T

Population (%)                                               1 9      1 9       2.1
Labor force (`A)                                             1 9      2 1       2.3

Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1937-03)                                       GNI                              Gross
                                                                                           per      I                      primary
Poverty ("A of populationbelownationalpovelty$ne)             65                           capita                       enrollment
Urbanpopulation ("hof totalpopulation)                        37       77        30
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                49       71        59                           A.
infant mortality (per 7,000live bifths)                       79       28        82
Child malnutrition ("A of children under5)                    23                 42              Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)           46       86        76
Illiteracy ("A ofpopulation age 154                           48       11        36
Net primary enrollment PA of school-agepopulation)            56     129         92                      Low-incomegroup
    Male                                                      56     131         99
    Female                                                    56     126         85

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1983   1993     2002       2003        Economicratios.

GDP (US$billions)                                    1.6     1 7      3 5       2.9
Grossdomestic InvestmenffGDP                        16.3     6 9    25 0       31.1                         Trade
Exportsof goodsand servicedGDP                      17.5     9 0     122        16.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           5.9    -69        1 6      0 2                           T

Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                   -3 5     22 0      28.8

Current account balance/GDP                                 -97      -4 9       -4.8       Domestic                        Investment
Interest payments/GDP                                0.4     0 0       0 2       0.3       savings
Total debffGDP                                      37.5    46 9     36 1       45.0
Total debt service/exports                                   4 3       1 8       3.1                           i
Presentvalue of debt/GDP
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                                              I              Indebtedness

                                         1983-93 1993-03    2002    2003    2003-07
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                         -0.7     0.7     -0 5      0.4       1.7     I   -     Haiti        Low-incomegroup
GDP per capita                              -2.6     -1.4    -2 4     -1.8      -0.4
 Exports of goodsand services               0.8      4.7     -2 2    35.6        4.3


 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                             I:!
                                                    1983    1993    2002       2003      `Growthof investment and GDP (%)
 ("A of GDP)
 Agriculture                                                         28.0       27.9
 Industry                                                            16.9       17.0
    Manufacturing                                                      8.4       8.4
 Services                                                            55.2       55.1

 Privateconsumption                                 83.4    100.1    89.2       91.3
 Generalgovernmentconsumption                        10.7     6.8      9.3       8.4
 Importsof goods and services                       27.9    22.8     35.6       47.2


                                                 1983-93  1993-03    2002      2003        Growthof exports and imports(%)
 (averageannualgrowth)                                                                     ~ L T
 Agriculture                                          1.7    -1.2     -3.7       0.3
 Industry                                            -5.2    -3.6      1.3       1.o       20

    Manufacturing                                    -1.5    -7.0       1.6      0.5        10

 Services                                             1.6     3.0     -0.5       0.4        0

 Privateconsumption                                   2.2                                  -10

 Generalgovernmentconsumption                        -6.8
 Gross domestic investment                           -6.1    10.1      -3.9     24.9
 Importsof goods and sewices                          3.9     6.3      -2.1     33.4


 Note: 2003data are preliminaryestimates.
 'Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry(Inbold)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwill
     be incomolete.



                                                                   36

                                       Annex 1(Continued) Haiti at a Glance
                                                          -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1983  1993    2002   2003    Inflation
Domesticprices                                                                                                            I
(% change)                                                               50

Consumer prices                                    20.2    8.7   32.5    40                                           PI
implicit GDP deflator                        8.9   32.5   10.0                                                            I
                                                                 25.4    30
                                                                         20
Government finance
("A of GDP, includes current grants)                                     110

Current revenue                                     7.4    8.3     9.1
Current budget balance                             -1.5   -1.1    -0.3
Overall surpius/deficit                            -2.4                                       deflator
                                                          -3.1    -3.7            "GDP                  ' O ' C P I       I
TRADE                                                                                                                     I
                                            1983  1993    2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                            ixport and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          166   131     304    361      200 T
  Coffee                                              9
  Sisal and sisal strings                             2                    WO

  Manufactures                                     108     273    330      800

Total imports (cif)                                346     983   1,116     Mi0

  Food                                             144                     400
  Fuel and energy                                   71                     200
                                                                                                                          I
  Capital goods                                     22                       0

Export price index (1995=100)                                                    97    98    99     W     01       02

Import price index (1995=100)                                                              Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                                                               O3



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            1983   1993   2002   2003
(US$millions)                                                            Furrent account balance to GDP(%)                I
Exports of goods and services                       180    437    461
Importsof goods and services                        409   1,239  1,400
Resource balance                                   -229   -802    -939

Net income                                          -11     -15    -12
Net current transfers                                70    649     811

Current account balance                            -169   -168    -140

Financing items (net)                               200     127    130
Changes in net reserves                             -31      41     10

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        20     36    228     207
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              5.0  12.2    27.1   40.5

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1983   1993   2002   2003
 (US$ millions)                                                            :omposition of 2002 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         810    817   1,251  1,313
   IBRD                                         0     0       0       0
   IDA                                       122    337     496    491                        245   351

Total debt service                            25      8      19      39
   IBRD                                         0     0       0       0
   IDA                                          1     0       0       0
 Composition of net resourceflows
   Official grants                            49     72     135      96
   Official creditors                         38      -3     -3      -2
   Private creditors                           -6      0     41      30
   Foreign direct investment                    8     -3      5       8
   Portfolio equitv                             0      0      0       0                          1608
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                49       0      0       0     A IBRD                            E Bilateral
   Disbursements                              26       0      0       0     B IDA       -
                                                                            C- IMF
                                                                             --       D Other multilateral    F Private
   Principal repayments                         0      0      0       0                                       G Short-term
                                                                                                                ---
   Net flows                                  26       0      0       0
   Interestpayments                             1      0      0       0
   Net transfers                              26       0      0       0


 Development Economics                                                                                               12/8/04




                                                         37

                                                           Annex 2 Haiti Key Economic Indicators
                                                                      -      -

                                                                             Actual                         1 Prel. I            Projected
                  Indicator                   1997        1998       1999    2000     2001    2002    2003   2004     2005    2006     2007      2008
Sational accounts(as rr of GDPi
Grossdomestic product'                             1on        100       IO0      100     100     100    IO0     I00     I00      IO0       100      100
 Agriculture                                        22         22        24       28      29      28      28     27      27       26        27       28
 Industry                                           34         36        34       17      16      17      17      16     16       16        15       14
 Services                                           44         42        42       55      55      55      55     51      57       58        58       58

Total Consumption                                   91          91       90       93      98      98    100     104      99       99        99       99
Gross domestic fixed investment                     25          26       28       27      26      25      31     23      27       27        27       27
 Govemment investment                                 I          2        3        3       2       2       3       2      6        4         4        4
 Privateinvestment                                  23          24       25       24      24      23      28      21     21       23        23       23

~xports(GNFS)~                                      11          10        12       13     12      12      16      14      12      12        12       12
Imports(GNFS)                                       27          26       30       33      36      36      47      40     39       38        39       38

Gross domestic savings                               9           9        10       7       2       2        0      -4      1       1          1       1
Gross nationalsavings'                              17          18       21       21      20      22      29      20     20       20        21       21

Memurundiini itenis
Gross domestic product                           3223        3779      4107     3697    3596    3465   2918    3619    4477     4676      4875     5241
(US$million at current prices)
GNI per capita(US$,Atlas method)                   430        430       470      490     460     430     390    370     400      480       530      540

Real annualgrowth rates
  Gross domestic productat marketprices            2.7         2.2       2.7      0.9    -1.0    -0.5     0.4   -3.5     2.5      3 0       4.0      4.0

Realannualper capitagrowthrates
  Gross domestic product at marketprices           0.6         0.I       0.6     -1.1    -3.1    -2.4    -1.8   -5.5     0.4      0.9       1.9      1.9
  Total consumption                                2.5        -0.6      -0.4      2.9     1.5    -1.9    -0.5    0.6     4.5      1.0       1.2      1.4

Balance of Payments(US$ millions)
 E X ~ I ~ S(GNFS)~                                380         479      528       503    443     437     461     502     549      554       598      646
    Merchandise FOB                                206         299      340       331    305     273     330     366     381      384       420      454
  Imports(GNFS)~                                   881        1022     1255     1355    1301    1239    1400    1456    1727     1770      1879     1990
    MerchandiseFOB                                 703         822     1018     1087    1055     983    1116    1164    1302     1329      1451     1679
 Resourcebalance                                  -501        -542     -727      -852   -858    -802    -939    -953   -1177    -1216     -1281    -1344
 Netcurrenttransfers                               256         321      422       578    624     649     811     863     844      866       996     1046
 Currentaccount balance                           -232        -205     -298      -260   -233     -168   -140      -98   -336     -346      -280     -296

 Netprivateforeigndirect investment                   4          I1       30        8       2       5       8       6      7       19        29       31
 Long-termloans (net)                              147         121       103       38      72      37     28       51       2      56        33       17
   Official                                          81          78       59       33       2      -3      -2      -5     18       57        33       19
   Private                                           66          43       44        5      69      41      30      56    -16       -1        -1       -2
 Other capital net. ind errors &ommissions         109         106       189      169     I63      85      94    100     367      347       255      318
 Changeinreservesd(- = increase)                    -28         -32      -24       46      -4      41      10     -59    -40      -76       -37      -70

Meniorunduni items
Resourcebalance(R of GDP)                        -15.5        -14.4    -17.7    -23.0   -23.9   -23.1   -32.2   -26.3   -26.3    -26.0     -26.3    -25.6
CurrentAccount Balance (% of GDP)                  -7.2        -5.4      -7.3     -7.0   -6.5     -4.9   -4.8    -2.7    -7.5     -7.4      -5.7     -5.6
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
 Currentrevenues                                    9.0         8.5       9.0      8.0     7.6     8.3    9.1      8.7    9.3      9.8      10.2     10.5
 Currentexpenditures                                8.1         7.4       7.6      7.4     8.3     9.4    9.4      9.0    9.1     10.0      11.2     10.3
 Currentaccount surplus (+)or deficit (-)           0.9         1.1       I.4      0.6    -0.7    -1.1   -0.3    -0.3     0.2     -0.2      -1 .o     0.2
 Capital expendiNe                                   I.4        2.2       2.8      3.1     2.1     2.0    3.3      3.4    6.2      4.7       4.2      4.2
 Foreignfinancing                                   0.4         0.6      -0.4      0.0     0.2     0.4    0.7      1.7    5.0      6.9       4.0      4.0

 Monetary indicators
  M2/GDP                                           31.8        32.2     35.1      38.6   41.5    46.9    48.5    38.0    32.8     35.5      35.6     35.8
  Growthof M2 (70)                                  5.0        19.4      19.7     23.8   17.7    23.8    30.0    -4.5     1.7     23.6      13.9     13.8
  Privatesectorcreditgrowth /                    165.4         66.7     28.9      93.4  -36.9    34.7    49.8   231.8    94.4     94.4      94.4     94.4
  totalcreditgrowth (9%)

  Consumer price index (% change)e.0.p.            17.0         8.3       9.9     15.3    12.3    10.1   42.5    22.5    12.0     11.0       9.2      8.6
  Consumer priceindex (Q change)p.a.               16.2        12.7       8.1     11.5    16.8     8.7   32.5    27.1    16.6     12.0      10.0      9.0
  GDPdeflator (R change)                           16.3        13.1       7.6     11.2    11.6    10.1   25.5    26.2    15.0     11.0       9.0      9.0

 a. GDPat factor cost
 b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactorservices."
 c. Includesnet unrequitedtransfersexcluding official capital grants.
 d. Includesuse of IMFresources.




                                                                                    38

d   W
   N
d           'm4r'-4mt
            r - N




m
W                       909  g o  0 lr,
d                        O t        2


    r-
    d                    2 % 8 0  0 3
                           m         \D
                                     d




    m
    w       F ' ? "      2 2 g o
            -o\ oCPI w             o m
                           m         s

    w
    N                    2 2
                           m g o   o -
                                     W
                                     d




2   m
.-
m    CP.




    E       L " - 0 9
            2 % -
            -
m
0    10
     N
2


     m
     m




-E
m    m
     QI




m
2    %


N
lr. Wm
0




U
m

                     Annex 4: Timetable of Key Processing Events




Steps                                       Dates

Pre-identification mission                  May 2004 duringjoint Government/donors
                                            needs assessment to prepare Interim
                                            CooperationFramework

ConceptReview Meeting                       August 19,2004

Identification and pre-appraisalmission     September 13-24, 2004

ROC meeting                                 October 15,2004

Appraisal Mission                           November9-13,2004

Negotiations                                November 17-18,2004

BoardPresentation                           January6,2005

Effectiveness                               January7,2005




                                         40

                                Annex 5: Haiti-IMF       Relations
                                 Prepared by the Staff of the IMF
          Contact person: Mr.Przemek Gajdeczka (paaideczka@imf.org, 202-623 7124)

Background

After the political transition in early 2004, the authorities implemented a Staff Monitored
Program (SMP) for the period April-September 2004. The objectives of the SMP were to restore
financial stability and establish a track record of policy implementation that could build a basis
for a possible future request for the use of Fundresources. Subsequently, the Haitian authorities
have adopted a program for 2004/05 that builds on the macroeconomic stability already achieved
and aims to develop institutional capacity and revive growth.

Staff Assessment of MacroeconomicDevelopments and Structural Reform

Good progress has been made toward restoring financial and economic stability, although real
GDP is estimated to have declined by 3%percent in 2003/04, reflecting disruptions in economic
activity in early 2004 and the impact of the volatile security situation on business confidence.
The gourde remains at around G37/US$,monthly inflation has declined but remains high, and
net international reserves increased to US$62 million at end-November. The banking system
appears so far largely unaffected by the economic downturn, and external trade has returned to
the pre-crisis levels, as the export sector (mostly garments assembly) was left largely unscathed
by the conflict while imports have been financed mostly by private remittances.

Performance under the SMP was satisfactory. End-June and end-September quantitative targets
were observed by wide margins, with the fiscal position substantially tighter than envisaged
under the program. The 2003/04 overall budget deficit, at 3.7 percent of GDP, was significantly
below expectations as revenues were substantially above target (because of strengthened
collection of arrears as well as a rebound in tax revenues) and emergency outlays were only
partly implemented.

Although administrative capacity constraints resulted in delays in the execution of some
structural commitments under the SMP, good progress was made on key structural measures. In
particular, the budget was approved before the start of the fiscal year, the use of discretionary
ministerial accounts was reduced, and there was progress in the pre-audit of key public sector
enterprises and the census of public sector employment. Furthermore, the authorities have
indicatedthat they are committed to implement all the outstanding measures during 2004/05.

Programfor 2004l05

The authorities' program for 2004/05 draws on a broad reform and development program
prepared in collaboration with the international community. The principal objectives of the
program are to strengthen key institutions and governance, promote economic recovery, improve
access to basic services, restore security, and promote national dialogue.




                                                  41

The macroeconomic framework for 2004/05 targets real GDP growth of 2.5 percent, a decline in
consumer price inflation to about 12 percent (endof period), and NIR increase to US$85 million.
The 2004/05 budget limits the overall fiscal deficit to 6 percent of GDP, which incorporates an
increased provision of key public services and investment using available government revenues
and external assistance, while eliminatingcentral bank financing.

Structural measures under the authorities' program aim to enhance public sector governance and
transparency. In particular, the authorities have indicated their commitment to: (i)   continue to
limit the use of ministerial discretionary accounts; (ii)
                                                        complete the census of employment of the
ministries and key public enterprises; (iii) carry out a survey of central government arrears; (iv)
prepare and publish audits of government accounts; (v) take steps to complete audits of key
public sector enterprises; and (vii) make the anti-corruption unit operational. They also intendto
publish information on the implementation of financing and guarantee schemes recently made
available to the private sector to assist in dealing with the losses incurred during the events in
early 2004.

Status of FundRelations

Since the last Article IV consultation Haiti has implemented two SMPs. In concluding the 2002
Article IV consultation on January 24, 2003, Executive Directors urgedthe authorities to restore
political stability and embark on an economic program that could establish a track record of
policy implementation and lead to a PRGF-supported program. A one-year SMP-covering the
period April 2003-March 2004-        sought to consolidate the stabilization gains made since early
2003 and clear external arrears. The macroeconomic framework of the SMP was maintained
untilDecember 2003 when it went off-track due to large expenditure overruns. After the political
transition in March 2004, a new six-month SMP was agreed, with the objective of restoring
financial stability and establishing a track record of policy implementation that could build a
basis for a possible request for support under a PRGFonce an elected government i s formed.

Most recently, the Haitian authorities have requested financial support from the Fund under its
Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance (EPCA) policy to address the aftermath of the conflict. The
authorities and staff have agreed on the policy content of EPCA and management approval i s
being sought. Discussion of the request at the IMF Board i s expected to take place in early
January 2005. A mission i s planned for early 2005 to conduct the discussions for the 2005
Article IV consultation.




                                                                                  December 6,2004




                                                  42

          MINISTERE
DE L'ECONOMIEET DES FINANCES




                                                                 Port-au-Prince,le...................................................................
                                                                                          17 NOY. 2004

                                                                                                       Annex 6

                 Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy of the Government ofHaiti
          in support ofthe Economic GovernanceReformOperation(EGRO)


       Mr.JamesWOLFENSOHN
       President
       World Bank
       1818HStreet N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433


       Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:


       1.     This Letter of Development Policy describes the program o f the Government of
       Haiti to respondto the multifacetedcrisis that the country is currently facing and ensure a
       successful political and economic transition during the period April 2004-February 2006.
       In the letter, we describe the efforts already ongoing and the main elements of our
       medium-termprogram. Inparticular, we detail the reformmeasures that we intend to put
       in place in the area of economic governance to introduce a new way of identifyng,
       implementingand ensuring the monitoringof economic policies inHaiti. To implement
       this program of economic governance, we request the financial support of the World
       Bank.




       2.     The outline o f this Letter o f Development Policy is as follows:                              Section I
       describes the multidimensional crisis that has affected the Haitian economy in the past
       decade or so; Section I1 describes some key achievements o f the Transitional
       Government to date; Section TI1 describes the medium-term strategy o f the Transitional
       Government derived from its Interim Cooperation Framework; Section IV details the
       economic governance program for which the Transitional Government requests the
                                                                                                                   Ff (7.

                       204, Palaisdes Ministbres, Rue Mgr. Guilloux TBI.: 299-1700/ 299-1701


                                                    43

World Bank's assistance; Section V discusses some additional measures to be taken to
ensure the successhl implementation and monitoring o f the economic govemance
program; and Section VI concludes the Letter o f Development Policy. The matrix
attached as Annex Idescribes the reform measures and policy actions we intend to
implement to achieve the objectives o f our economic govemance program.


                               I.Amultidimensionalcrisis

A. Macroeconomic crisis and economic contraction

3.       Haiti's economic growth and poverty reduction have been hampered in the last
two decades by social and political instability.      The shocks o f a three-year embargo
(1991-1994), oil price increases and natural disasters also contributed to the deterioration
o f the productive capital and limited the prospects for ensuring a stable macroeconomic
framework to attract investments. This long crisis contributed to the crumbling o f the
capacity o f administrative structures and limited the process of institutional reform
needed to consolidate State institutions for sustainable economic growth. Reforms aimed
at liberalizing and deregulating the economy were initiated in 1987; but their impact was
limited because they were neither effectively piloted nor adequately backed by sustained
political will, andexternal imbalances continueddespite the depreciationo f the currency.

4.       Over the past two decades, Haiti's GDP has steadily declined. Real GDP fell at
an average annual rate o f 2.4 percent in the 1980s and 2.6 percent in the 1990s. The
agricultural sector, which constituted the backbone of the productive system two decades
ago, i s teetering on the verge o f collapse, discharging its labor force to take up informal
activities or seek employment inthe assembly manufacturing sector which, following the
three years o f economic embargo (1991-94), has not been able to regain the level o f
activities of the 1980s. Within this context, emigration has become the exit strategy for
households in search o f opportunities and employment; and remittances from Haitians
abroad sustain an internal demand increasingly oriented externally. Thus, a GDP growth
of 1 percent is expected to induce a 2 percent increase in imports. The rate of coverage
o f imports by exports i s only 32 percent. Nevertheless, private non-factor transfers
finance more than 95 percent o f the current account deficit.

5. The GDP for the current year has declined in real terms by an estimated 3.5 percent.
First, this state o f affairs resulted from the complete halt in commercial and industrial
activities during most o f March, leading to the scarcity o f essential commodities and a
disruption in the stock of intermediate goods for industries whose productive activities
were geared toward the local market. Second, acts o f violence, looting and crime caused
enormous losses, estimated at 6 billion gourdes and equivalent to about 5.5 percent of
GDP, to both the public and private sectors. However, the resumption of external trade
and the in'crease in revenues during the period May-September reflect a recovery -
although slow andtimid-o f economic activity.

6.      The Transitional Government inherited a disastrous budgetary situation when it
took office inMarch2004. The budget deficit had been at more than2.8 percent o f GDP

                                                                              IC+ (3
                                              44

over the last five years. The emission o f currency as a mode o f financing the budget
deficit, in addition to the accumulation o f arrears on internal and external debt,
contributed to high inflation, an average o f 19.6 percent, and to interest rates on loans o f
about 33 percent. The financial program agreed with the IMF in 2003 was not met and
endedupwith anuncontrolledgrowth o fpublic expenditure which, inturn, fueled a fiscal
deficit o f about 2.4 percent o f GDP duringthe first quarter o f FY2003-04 (October 2003-
March 2004). The fiscal system is characterized by a weak revenue/GDP ratio (9
percent), weak State participation in the provision o f infrastructure and the delivery o f
basic services to the population. It is also characterized by corruption, a weak control
system and the disregard for budget procedures - all o f which have led to the highly
discretionary and indiscriminate use o f institutional own accounts in the execution o f the
budget.

7.       The accumulation o f internal and external arrears became a mode o f financing the
ballooning budget deficit. The Government decided to address these problems through a
Staff Monitored Program developed with the assistance o f the IMF for the period April-
September 2004 and initial reforms aimed at improving economic governance. The
objectives and performance criteria of the Staff Monitored Program have been largely
met. As a result, macroeconomic indicators are showing a clear improvement, as
reflected, during the second quarter o f the current fiscal year, by reduced inflation, the
significant reduction o f the budget deficit, the appreciation of the gourde, and the
reduction o f interest rates induced in the last months to stimulate the recovery o f the
productive sectors.

B. Social crisis and generalizedimpoverishmentof the population

8.       The decline in Haiti's GDP contrasts with its annual average 3 percent rate o f
population growth. The consequence o f this gap i s the generalized impoverishment o f
the population. InHaiti, the poorest country inthe western hemisphere, 76 percent o f the
population lives below the poverty line and 56 percent in extreme poverty.           A stark
inequality, as reflected in a GINI coefficient rate o f 0.65, characterizes a particularly
difficult social context.

9.       The social indicators are particularly alarming. The only country inthe continent
to be listed among the world's least developed countries, Haiti ranks 153rdon the Human
Development Index (HDI). An estimated 50 percent o f Haiti's 8 million inhabitants are
illiterate. The rate o f net primary school enrollment is 56 percent and the quality of the
education is very poor. Unemployment and underemployment are currently among the
most critical challenges for a country whose under-18 population makes up 50 percent of
total population. About one out o f every two Haitians between 20 and 45 years o f age i s
not gainfully employed. About ninetypercent o fthe non-rural active population works in
the informal sector.      Unemployment mostly strikes urban dwellers in their prime,
especially those between the ages o f 20 and 35. The rural environment, where 68 percent
o f the population lives and which is predominantly the domain o f agricultural activities,
is most affected by poverty (88 percent o f the population). Living conditions become
increasingly precarious. The acute socioeconomic andpolitical crisis has further reduced
access to basic social services. The consequent worsening o f livingconditions, combined

with widespread impunity, have increased exponentially acts o f violence andcrime. The
struggle against precarious livingconditions has triggered some extreme social behaviors.

C. Environmentalcrisis

10.     Environmental degradation in Haiti has reached alarming proportions, with the
remaining forest cover at barely 3 percent of the territory. The vulnerable topography,
fragile soil and the cutting down o f trees as a survival strategy and source o f energy have
combinedto accelerate erosion and deforestation. Wood is used as the principal source
o f energy for more than 90 percent o f households, thereby exacerbating the pressure on
Haiti's limited forest resources. To survive, areas inadequate for agricultural production
are used by the population. The pressure on land is so intense that the average family
farm occupies less than 0.3 hectares. The May 2004 floods and the widespread damage
caused by Hurricane Jeanne inthe north (especially inthe city o f Gonaives) inSeptember
o f the same year are testimony to the extreme vulnerability o f the population to natural
disasters. In fact, Haiti's vulnerability to natural disasters is among the highest in the
world, according to a Disaster Risk Index (DRI) established by the United Nations
(UNDP-2004). From 1900to 1999, Haiti experienced 16 hurricanes, more than 25 major
floods, a powerful earthquake and7 droughts. The incidence and depth o f poverty and o f
social vulnerability (lack o f guarantee o f property rights, widespread impunity and
corruption) which result in an extensive resource use, the absence o f a viable energy
strategy, poor governance and the lack o f planning o f rural and urban spaces constitute
challenges for environmental rehabilitation and the promotion o f sustainable
development inHaiti.



        11. Short-term achievementsofthe TransitionalGovernment

11.     The first actions o f the Transitional Government were aimed at achieving the
following objectives:

               Stabilizing the economy by controlling the budget deficit through the
               elimination o f non-essential expenditures          and increased revenue
               mobilization.
               Revitalizing economic activities that had been seriously disrupted in the
               wake of the political violence; and increasingemployment opportunities in
               the short term.
               Addressing the urgent needs o f the population, especially following the
               floods that have hit the country.
               Re-launching official cooperation with donors and encouraging the
               involvement o f Haitian Diaspora.




                                               46

A. Macroeconomicstability

12.     At the beginning o f its mandate, the Government finalized a Staff Monitored
Programwith the InternationalMonetary Fundfor the period April-September 2004. The
objective of this program was to contain inflation at 17 percent over a six-month period,
limit Central Bank financing to 1.2bn gourdes for the period, and increase the net
international reserves to at least US$22bn. The Government embarked on measures to
reduce non-essential spending and developed an emergency plan to prioritize
expenditures on the basis o f available resources. These measures combined to produce a
17 percent increase inrevenues, a deficit o f 3.7 percent o f GDP for the fiscal year -much
lower than the targeted 5.0 percent - and a decrease in the debt amount owed to the
Central Bank (by 0.1 percent o f GDP). The low inflation rate (less 10 percent) between
April and August 2004 allowed the Central Bank to increase its exchange reserves to
US$56m by September 2004; and the national currency appreciated and has currently
stabilizedat the exchange rate o f 37 Haitian gourdes to US$1.

B.      Revitalizing the economy and increasing short-term employment
opportunities

13.     An area of Government priority has been to revitalize economic activity through
the provision o f assistance to businesses that were looted or vandalized duringthe recent
unrest, the reduction in the interest rate, strengthening o f security measures and
improving basic infrastructure such as electricity. Public investments have also allowed
the physical rehabilitation ring o f facilities damaged by the 2004 political events. The
Government intends to increase opportunities for short-term employment and income-
generation for the population.         For this, the ongoing activities aim at launching
rehabilitation works by combining the urgency o f rehabilitating productive and social
infrastructure with that o f creating temporary employment through a labor intensive
public works program that would benefit the most disadvantaged groups.                    The
Government has also launched a micro-enterprise credit program, especially for small
merchants inthe poor areas o f Port-au-Prince whose economic losses can be traced to the
political events.

C.Meetingthe mostpressingneeds of the population

14.     The Government has undertaken immediate actions to (1) launch the
rehabilitation of certain priority services such as healthcare, garbage collection and the
provision of electricity; (2) improve the provision o f basic services; and (3) relieve the
population which is very vulnerable and exposed to the hazards o f natural disasters and
the increase in the prices o f basic goods. It is important to note that the efforts o f the
Transitional Government have led to a significant improvement in electricity supply,
even ifthis remains still below the needs. Ongoing actions are geared toward helpingthe
inhabitants o f the areas that were hardest hit by the floods o f M a y and September,
notably: restoring basic services in these areas, especially in Gonaives, and parts o f the
northwest and the southeast; rehabilitating agriculture infrastructure in these areas as
well as university campuses that were destroyed during the recent political violence;
facilitating access to credit facilities for operators o f micro-enterprises (with a particular


                                              47

emphasis on women). Moreover, the Government intends to improve the conditions o f
university students through better service delivery at the tertiary level and the availability
of scholarships. Emphasis is also given to sports given the role they play to foster social
cohesion.


D. Re-launching official cooperation with donors and mobilizing the Haitian
Diaspora

15.    The political and social instability o f the past five years had a negative impact on
the cooperation between the donors and Haiti. Since 1997, Haiti begun experiencing a
contraction in the level o f external assistance due to episodes o f institutional vacuum.
The protests resulting from the 2000 elections and supported by the international
community resulted in a freeze o f its financial and technical assistance that had hitherto
been provided inthe form o f grants and loans. The arrest o f the main structural reforms,
scandals related to the embezzlement o f some project funds, and the accumulation of
arrears on extemal debt service payments also contributed to the contraction o f external
assistance. From US$61lm in 1994-95, the amount o f disbursed external assistance to
Haiti fell to US$136m in 2001-2002. After years o f poor governance, the Government
intends to mobilize external assistance on a new basis. It also aims to ensure efficacy o f
external financing for promotion o f national development.           For that, it intends to
strengthen the coordination mechanisms for extemal financing that had been severely
weakened during this long period o f crisis and political instability, and to increase the
absorptive and execution capacity o fnational institutions.

16.    The preparation o f the InterimCooperation Framework (ICF) in May 2004 with
the support of the donor community and the commitments made by donors inJuly 2004
meeting inWashington to provide significant financing for the implementationo f the ICF
markeda new phase inHaiti's internationalcooperation. Infact, the ICF is accompanied
by coordination and monitoring mechanisms established within the framework of
participation of State institutions, civil society and donors.

17.    The Haitian Diaspora constitutes a significant human and financial resource for
national development, given that it accounts for important annual monetary transfers into
the country. Over the past ten years, Haitians in North America and elsewhere have
injectedmore than US$4bn into the national economy. A mobilization o f these resources
and capacities towards productive investment activities as well as national and
community development projects identified in a participatory way will receive
Government support through the creation o f a Solidarity Fund in partnership with civil
society, the private sector anddonors.

    111. The medium-termstrategyofthe TransitionalGovernment

18.    We have defined our medium-term program in the Interim Cooperation
Framework around four major axes: (1) revitalizing the economy; (2) improving the
provision o fbasic social services; (3) strengthening political governance andensuring a



                                               48

successful political transition;   and (4) strengthening economic governance and
reinforcing institutional development.



A. Revitalizing the economy

19.     The strategy for economic recovery focuses on: maintaining a stable
macroeconomic framework; improving the supply o f electricity;             facilitating the
recapitalization of private sector businesses that were vandalized during the period
December 1st 2003-March 31st 2004 with temporary fiscal and financial advantages;
supporting growth inthe agricultural andindustrial sectors, as well as self-employment in
the informal sector. The Government also intendsto re-launchpublic investment through
the ICF 2004-06, which was elaborated with the support o f the international community
under the coordination o f the European Union, the United Nations, the World Bank and
the Inter-American Development Bank. This program has been incorporated into the
current FY2004-05 budget, approved by the Council o f Ministers.          The increase in
production will be enhanced by improved competitiveness and economic efficiency
which will not only consolidate the efforts to improve economic governance but also
ensure the improveddelivery o fbasic social services.

20.     Macroeconomic framework In order to maintain a stable macroeconomic
framework, the Government has just prepared a macroeconomic stabilization program
that will be implementedwith technical and financial support o f the IMF(through a post-
conflict financing). This program is based on a projected real GDP growth rate o f 2.5
percent and an end-of-period inflation rate o f 12 percent for 2004-05. To reach these
objectives, a budget deficit o f 6 percent o f GDP, driven by an exceptional increase in
spending, will be totally funded with external sources and without relying on the Central
Bank, whose net internationalreserves are expectedto reachUS$85m at the end of2004-
05.

21.     Public finance: The Government intends to continue to clean and strengthenthe
public finance system.      Better efforts at tax collection, jointly with more dynamic
economic activity, shouldallow for an increase intax revenues fi-om 9 percent o f GDP in
2003-04 to a projected 9.4 percent o f GDP in2004-05.

22.     Resolution of external arrears: We have prepared a comprehensive strategy for
clearance o f external arrears. Using a sequential approach to the resolution o f arrears
situations, the strategy envisages the payment o f arrears to multilateral creditors
(essentially the World Bank) in January 2005 and subsequently, the resolution o f arrears
to bilateral creditors during 2005.    In the 2004-05 Budget, we have made required
allocations for ensuring regular payment o f external debt service obligations falling due
to all creditors, while not sacrificing expenditure allocations for urgent, basic social
needs.

23.     Investment and external trade:     To stimulate the recovery o f manufacturing
activity, the Government intends to promote access to credit, stimulate sectors with


                                           49

potential and reinforce Haiti's integration into regional and international markets. The
following are envisaged:

    a   Creation o f a recapitalization fund to be managed by the Industrial Development
        Fund (IDF) to support the revitalization of businesses in distress. The funding
        will come mainly from commercial banks, thanks to a partial softening ofreserve
        requirements and a buyback o f a part o f Central Bank bonds held by commercial
        banks.
    a   Establishing a guarantee mutual fund for small businesses in light industry sub-
        sectors.
    a   Injecting financial resources in the micro-finance sector to boost access to credit
        for small andmedium enterprises.
    a   Establishing a facilitation mechanism for enterprises that create highvalue-added
        andhavea strong potential for exports andjob creation.
    a   Developing industrial and commercial free trade zones, tourist hubs and organic
        farmingzones.
    a   Setting up five one-stop investment and export facilitation centers in Jacmel,
        Gonalves, Cap-Haltien, CBtes des Arcadins and Port-au-Prince.       This initiative
        will make for an improved economic integration with the Dominican Republic
        and other CARICOM countries as well as ensure that Haiti can benefit fully from
        the Free Trade Area o f the Americas (FTAA), the European UniodACP
        Economic Partnership Agreement, and the Haiti Economic Recovery Opportunity
        (HERO) Act.

24.     Agriculture: Inthe agriculture sector, Government action will be orientedtoward
improving the legal framework and the governance o f the sector, launching works to
rehabilitate irrigation canals, repair agricultural equipment and carry out vaccination
campaigns, targeting the distribution o f tools and seeds that can revitalize agricultural
activities in the rural areas, in addition to interventions geared at sustainable
intensification of agricultural production. Improving the governance of the sector i s
sought through: technical training o f multi-skills extension agents; creation o f regional
research and development centers; strengthening o f the institutional capacity o f the
Ministry of Agriculture through upgrading its physical and working environment and
building in-house competence for formulating and implementing sectoral policies and
strategies (with a focus on harmonization o f sectoral interventions and inter-agency
relations). The Government intends to put to use the many potentials of the agriculture
sector such as organic farming, ecological diversity, under-exploited or ill-exploited
water resources and geographicalproximityto the NorthAmerican market.

25.     Electricity: The emphasis will be on ensuringthat sectoral policies are consistent
with the objectives of environmental protection within the framework of sustainable
development. We will aim to improve the supply o f electricity beyond recent increases
bymobilizing the financial resources neededto purchase fuel; repairing power generation
equipment of the State-owned electricity company (EDH); and purchasing additional
megawatts o f power from private energy companies. In addition, the Government will
take steps to overhaul management and accounting processes o f EDH as well as improve


                                              50

the quality o f the services it produces. As part this strategy, EDH will undergo an
accounting rehabilitationand a financial audit inthe coming months. Inthe medium term,
a management contract will be finalized with a private firm, along with an investment
plan that can guarantee an increase in access to electricity from 10 percent to 50 percent
o f the populationby2013.

26.     Ports and Airports: Deteriorated infrastructure, past inefficient management and
weak institutional capacity at Haiti's ports and airports threaten, in the short term, the
viability o f supply chain. The Government has defined three major priority actions: (i)
carry out urgently needed investments that can ensure the continuity of maritime
transportation services, including securing the ISPS certification code for the Port-au-
Prince harbor; (ii)   undertake specialized studies and audits that can lead to improved
management performance at the ports, including organizational and financial audit o f the
Ports Authority (see Section IV below) especially the Port-au-Prince harbor, which
accounts for 80 percent o f the traffic; and (iii)
                                                elaboration o f institutional reforms for the
airports, including an organizational and financial audit o f the Airport Authority (see
Section IV below); and the elaboration o f a strategy to define the institutional changes
that can ensure sectoral efficiency. The active participation o f private operators in port
operations will be expected in the medium to long term. The dilapidated state of port
installations, facility inoperability, and a social environment that is not conducive to
reform at the ports indicate that the management o f ports cannot be significantly
improved unless a clean-up i s carried out.

27.      Telecommunications:     In addition to pursuing transparency in the financial
management o f the telecommunications sector (see Section IV below), the Government
envisages a stronger private-sector participation in the management o f Teleco as well as
in improving access to more modern and reliable telephone services, and to the new
communication technologies.

28.      Water and Sanitation: We intend to improve the coverage and quality o f potable
water and sanitation services inrural and urban areas. To achieve that objective, we plan
to: (i) develop a national strategy for potable water and sanitation with World Bank
assistance; (ii)pursue the process o f gradual deconcentration o f the offices o f SNEP
(rural water utility) with IBD assistance; (iii)improve the financial and technical
management o f CAMEP (urban water utility) (see Section IV below); (iv) identify and
fix leakage points inthe water distribution system, and expandthe system o fwater kiosks
managed by the water co-ops in disadvantaged communities; and (v) carry out
preliminary studies aimed at increasingthe country's water production capacity.

29.      The Environment: Although Haiti has an Environment Action Plan (PAE), its
implementation has been thwarted by a number o f difficulties. Our strategy aims at: (i)
promoting the use o f alternative and renewable energy sources (i.e. other than fuel-wood)
so as to alleviate the pressure on the country's limited forestry resources; (ii)  protecting
andmanagingthe fragile ecosystems ina sustainable fashion; (iii)     identifying populations
who are vulnerable to natural and anthropogenic threats; (iv) strengthening institutional
capacities and the legal framework for the implementation of proposed actions.
Consistent with the community driven development approach that we plan to adopt, the


                                             51



                                                                                                .

emphasis will be on evaluating, supporting andbetter articulating several natural resource
management initiatives that are currently underway at the local community levels.

30.     Roads: Regarding road transport, the key Government goal is to ensure the year-
round accessibility o f roads that are critical to Haiti's development. Only 5 percent o f all
roads are ingood condition and 15 percent are in a relatively satisfactory state. Nearly 50
percent o f the network o f tertiary roads - an essential infrastructure in a country where
two-thirds o f the population live inrural areas -have beenwithdrawn from the register of
official roadways because o f their extreme deterioration and inaccessibility. Investments
and urgent repair works are envisaged to enhance the structural distribution of
infrastructure and ensure the durability o f the road network.         An institutional and
financial framework, capable of ensuring the viability of these investments and enhancing
efficient management of the sector will follow from the implementation o f the Road
Maintenance Fund(see Section IV below), the mechanism for periodic road maintenance,
and the strengthening the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communication
(MTPTC) so as to gradually create an efficient administration focused on regulatory
functions.

3 1.    Job creation: Job-creation and income-generation in the informal sector, which
accounts for nearly 90 percent of employment in the non-rural economy, will be
supported by an increase in the supply of micro-credit. Labor-intensive public works
programs will facilitate the creation o f temporary employment; and the capacities of the
various stakeholders (the respective Ministries, Local Governments, community-based
Organizations and donor institutions) will be reinforced to ensure adequate program
implementation andmonitoring.

32.     Public-Private partnership: The Government plans to institutionalize a genuine
public sector-private sector dialogue through the creation o f threejoint commissions to be
charged respectively with: (i)   general business development; (ii)anti-smuggling, anti-
corruption, anti-dumping; and (iii) provision o fbasic services. The Government plans
                                     the
to also provide technical and financial assistance to intermediary organizations for the
development o f their projects, draft a Business Code and prepare the regulations needed
to implement the Investment Code.


B.      Improving access to basic social services

33.     Inthe area o fbasic social services, the Government's objectives is to: (i) increase
the supply and quality of health, education andpotable water services and facilitate their
access to a large share o f the population which had previously been excluded fiom these
very basic services; (ii)  promote a more significant participation o f the various social
groups in the national development process by improving the capacities o f the most
marginalized groups; and (ii)improve basic services with a view to limiting their
production costs which are so highthat they work to constrain the efficient allocation o f
resources andlimit economic growth.




                                                52

34.      Inthe education sector, Government actions will be geared at strengthening the
sector's governance and improving access and quality at all levels. More specifically, the
actions we intendto take aim to: improve sectoral governance inter alia by developing
regulatory and quality control instruments and by establishing the Office o f public-
private partnership (see Section IV below); increase education supply; rehabilitate and
improve infrastructures; reduce schooling costs especially for vulnerable groups;
implement the plan for introducing the third cycle o f basic education level; prepare the
reform o f the higher education cycle; carry out teacher training and update the
curriculum; restructure and improve the operational capacities of the education system
(from primary to tertiary levels, EFACAP - Basic Training Schools and the Educational
Support Center - and rehabilitated partner schools); update the literacy programs and
methods.

35.      Over the past few years, the increase in the number o f tertiary education
institutions has facilitated access to higher education for a larger number o f the youth.
The tertiary education population has nearly doubled between 1986 and 1996. However,
a policy o f equitable access to the university is yet to be adopted.

36.     In the area of vocational training, the Government plans to take actions to:
enhance access to, and increase the relevance and quality, o f vocational training offered
by private and public institutions; strengthen the governance capacity of the Institute of
Vocational Training (Institut National de Formation Professionnelle, INFP); identifyand
respond to the training needs o f the job market by focusing on skills required for revenue
generation activities in the informal sector. Currently, training supply is fragmented and
access i s limitedto the few. The large majority of workers (80%) either do not meet the
program selection criteria or are not admitted for lack o f space inthe vocational schools.
Only 6 out o f every 1,000 workers on the job market have a diploma or certificate in a
technical or professional field.

37.      In the area o f health and social protection, our strategy aims to: (i)ensure the
proper functioning of the major hospitals o f the country; extend the minimumhealthcare
package to 2.5 million Haitians through the development o f 15 community healthcare
centers; (ii)promote the emergence o f micro-insurance for health (see Section IVbelow);
(iii)strengthen the management and coordination capacity ofthe Ministry ofPublic
Health and Population (MSPP); (iv) improve healthcare access for the general population
andespecially for vulnerable groups (children, pregnant women, people with disabilities,
persons living with HIV/AIDS, and the extremely poor people) through better regulation
and price-reduction for generic drugs, essential inputs and services (child birth and C-
sections); and (v) boost the priority health programs through the implementation of a
national program of purchasing and distributing essential drugs and inputs for the entire
country, prevention and therapeutic treatment for malnourished children and mothers as
well as HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis patients, and through systematic vaccination for
children under 12 months o f age.      tin

C. Improvingpoliticalgovernance andorganizinga successfulpoliticaltransition

38.     The Government intends to promote national dialogue with a view to creating a
momentum for national reconciliation aimed at generating viable and consensual
solutions for reducing risks o f conflicts and crises inthe country. This dialogue will need
to include representatives of all levels of civil society and the government with a view to
setting national development priorities, strengthening the institutions that are incharge o f
protecting national sovereignty and the rule o f law, and arriving at fiee, fair and
democratic elections in the coming year. The creation of the Council o f the Wise, a
consultative group o f persons coming from civil society, represents a leap forward inthis
process as does the preparation process o f the Interim Cooperation Framework. We
intend to follow a consultative approach as well during the preparation of the PRSP
which will be submitted for adoption to the government that will take over in February
2006. This dialogue constitutes the first step toward the strengthening o f political
governance, which will also require the transformation o f the State, which, for a long
time, has been captured to benefit the ruling classes and political groups. Reforms are
planned to strengthen and professionalize the police, ensure effectiveness o f the judicial
system as well as disarmament o f armed groups. Programs for the rehabilitation and
reinsertion o f members from armed groups will need to be run in conjunction with the
dismantlement o f these groups. These measures should help create a conducive
environment for holding elections and handing over power to a government resulting
from credible elections.

D.Reinforcingeconomicgovernanceandsupportinginstitutionaldevelopment

39.     At stake is the strengthening of State's capacity for managing resources,
elaborating and implementing public policies as well as strengthening its regulatory role
insuch key sectors of the economy as telecommunications, energy, potable water, ports
and airports. The public finance reform program envisages a broadeningo f the tax base,
tackling corruption, ensuring a more equitable allocation o f revenues and enhancing
transparency.   The strengthening o f economic governance and institutional building
should foster efficiency in the allocation o f resources, and improve the transparent
management o f external assistance and, more generally, public resources within a
fiamework which i s transparent and involves the public and private sectors in a
participatory way. This program, whose implementation i s an integral part of the reform
program supported the EGRO,i s detailed inthe next section.


               IV. The economicgovernanceprogramfor which
                    World Banksupport hasbeenrequested

40.     As detailed inthe ICF, our economic governance program consists of five major
components: (1) public procurement, (2) budgetprocess, (3) ex-ante and ex-post financial
control (including the Supreme Audit Institution and the Anti-Corruption Unit), (4)
public enterprise management and, (5) the search for mechanisms to strengthen the
human resources for policy formulation and program implementation. Annex 1 o f this

Letter o f Development Policy details and updates our economic governance program,
which we have decided to expand to include: (1) governance in key social sectors,
namely education and health; and (2) program monitoring by civil society and
communication around economic governance actions.

A. Improvingthe public procurementprocess

41.    The 1989 Decree which regulates procurement was never implemented, and the
pragmatic arrangements created to fill the institutional void have proven to be neither
efficient nor transparent and have rather given rise to cases o f corruption. In the short
term, the Government plans to improve transparency and efficiency in the procurement
process and lay the foundations for deeper medium term reforms. Therefore, we plan to
implement the following actions: (i)   establishing by early December 2004, by decree, an
Interim National Procurement Commission whose members will be selected in a
transparent manner with the private sector and civil society participation; (ii)   recruiting
by March 2005 specialized procurement agents for a tenure o f 12 months to provide
technical support to the Interim National Procurement Commission and strengthen
national capacities for procurement; (iii) adopting standard bidding documents for public
procurement; (iv) publishing information on bids and contract awards to improve
transparency o f public procurement, (v) training public and private sector staff on public
procurement issues, (vi) creating a database o f suppliers o f goods and services to the
public sector, and (vii) establishing a judicial and regulatory framework that can ensure
deeper reforms beyond 2006 interms o f accelerating the process o f decentralizingpublic
procurement.

B. Strengtheningthe budgetprocess

42.    Progress has been made recently in the area of budget process. For example, the
recent ratification o f the Organic Budget Law that had been voted by Parliament in
December 2003, the introduction o f the automated public expenditure management
system (SYSDEP) in several Ministries, and the adoption o f a new nomenclature for
public expenditures are important steps in the right direction. After operating for five
years without a budget, Government prepared an annual budget during the last three
years, albeit with some delays; and, for the first time, the 2004-05 Budget was ready
before the start o f the fiscal year. Thanks to actions already taken to limit the number o f
comptes courants to one per institution, the use o f comptes courants has been markedly
reduced in the past few months, with non-salary current expenditures disbursed through
theses accounts falling from 58 percent o f total expenditures in the first half of the fiscal
year to 10percent duringthe last quarter o f the fiscal year.

43.    However, the budget process has been seriously weakened by lack o f capacity of
the units in charge for planning, control and evaluation o f programs and projects (an
observation that is applicable to the Ministry o f Economy and Finance, the Ministry o f
Planning and External Cooperation, andthe sectoral Ministries and agencies. The budget
process has also been affected by cumbersome expenditure execution procedures, as well
as by delays at the budget approval phase, the weakness of the tax system, the extensive



                                              55

use o f comptes courants by spending agencies as way o f circumventing cash problems
and the inefficiency o f the normal expenditure request process, and shortcomings in he
analysis o f budget parameters and in information submitted to substantiate budget
requests. Revenue collection institutions (Customs Department and the Department o f
Internal Revenue) face serious human resource deficiencies; and their unattractive salary
scale has provided perverse incentives for fraud and corruption.

44.      The Transitional Government i s determined to ensure a satisfactory execution o f
the 2004-05 Budget. We will ensure that that the 2004-05 capital investment program
complies with the provisions o f approved capital expenditure credits, as outlined within
the framework o f the goals and objectives of the ICF. During the fiscal year, we will
inform the World Bank o f any significant deviations which could affect budget
objectives. In particular, we will consult the World Bank if such deviations require the
preparation o f a revisedbudget.

45.      The general public has beeninformed, mostly through brochures, o fthe content of
the 2004-05 Budget as approved by the Council o f Ministers on September 29, 2004.
The Government has decided to: (1) continue with the exercise of disseminating
information on budget allocations and executed expenditures to the general public
throughout the 2004-05 fiscal year; and (2) adopt the same approach for transparency in
the allocation and disbursements o fresources insubsequentbudget years.
46.      Our strategy for reinforcing the budget process is expected to include the
following actions:

47.      Modernizing the automatedpublicfinance management system. The Government
i s in the process o f analyzing the possibilities o f extending the SYSDEP or replacing it
with another integratedpublic finance management system. A decision can be expected
from the Government by March2005; and a plan for the deployment o f the new system is
expected to be formulated and subsequentlyimplemented.

48.      Improving the State accounting system. The State General Accounting Plan (Plan
Comptable G&nbral de I'Etat, PCGE) went into effect at the beginning o f 2004-05. The
following actions are envisaged: taking an inventory o f State assets, modernizing the
automated system o f expenditure management incorporating the accounting system, and
establishing inthe Treasury Office a unit incharge o f the operationalization o f the system
and related staff training. The new budget nomenclature for revenues and expenditures
went into effect since October 2004. Provisions have been duly made and shown inthe
Budget o f relevant agencies for expenditure items traditionally included in the catch-all
line called "Autres interventions publiques." The bulk o f expenditures under this
category has been duly assigned in the 2004-05 budget. A provision has been built into
the 2004-05 Budget to meet the need for emergency expenditures; however, under no
circumstances this should exceed 2 percent o f total expenditures financed by internal
revenues as envisaged inour macroeconomic program supported by the IMF.

49.      Establishing a Corps of Public Accountants. This entails the separation o f the
functions o f Public Authorizers from those o f Public Accountants. A legal instrument
(Arret&)will soon be signed with the aim o f organizing the public accountants system,


                                               56

and preparing the status o f accountants, their recruitment and training expected to be
posted inkey Ministries alongside the financial comptrollers.

50.     Strengthening the budget preparation process.           This component entails the
strengthening o f the capacities o f the Office o f Economic Research (in the Ministry o f
Economy and Finance) and the Office of Economic and Social Programming (in the
Ministry o f Planning and External Cooperation) for preparing the budget framework,
training o f participants in the budget process, the establishment o f budget information
reporting system that facilitates the monitoring of Government objectives.

51.     Strengthening the preparation and execution of thepublic investment budget and
ensuring that it is well integrated with the current expenditure budget as well as the
overall medium to long-term development strategy.               This will hinge upon the
strengthening o f the coordination and monitoring capacity o f the MPCE.                 More
specifically, the Ministry o f Planning and External Cooperation requires support for
asserting its coordination role - including for the preparation o f a public investment
program - as well as its control and evaluation role through the strengthening o f its
Direction de I 'Evaluation et du Controle and its Departmental Offices. We are committed
to launching the preparation o f the public investment program for 2005-06 in the first
quarter o f the 2005, ensuring that it reflects the input o f potential beneficiaries of public
investment programs as expressed by the population during the various consultative
campaigns that we planto cany out inpartnership with civil society.

52.     Preparing and disseminating a timetablefor the implementation of a mechanism
to monitor poverty-reducing public expenditures. We plan to adopt by early December
2004, a program of work that would allow Haiti to have a mechanism for monitoring
poverty-reducing expenditures. This will require that future budgets be prepared using a
program budgeting approach or, at least, that the objectives o f budget allocations be
clearly defined at the budget preparationstage.

53.     Modemizing the revenue collection institutions. It is envisaged to finalize and
implement the strategic reorganization and modernization plans for the Department o f
Internal Revenue and the Customs Department. This will be completed with concrete
steps aimed at significantly increasingpublic revenues.

finances.Strengthening
54.                     the role of the Treasury in improving the management of public
          This component of the program pursues the objectives of institutingthe practice
o f a single Treasury account which incorporates direct receipts by individual Ministries
or agencies; the sharp reduction o f the use of comptes courants followed by their gradual
elimination; andthe strict enforcement o f the procedures for replenishing agency comptes
courants (through the mechanism called Demande d'Alimentation en Courants or DAC).
The process o f reducing the number o f agency comptes courants has started;              each
spending unit or agency will be limited to a single account only (in addition to those
accounts that are fed directly from external sources) and budgetary expenditures
processed through these comptes courants will be limitedto a maximum o f 10 percent of
non-salary current expenditure during 2004-05. The procedure for feeding agency
comptes courants will be strictly applied and the criteria for use o f agency comptes


                                              57


                                                                                      --.       -.

courunts will disseminated to spending units.       These measures will be backed by a
reduction in disbursement processing time to between 3 to 4 days for current
expenditures and between 4 to 5 days for capital expenditures by January 2005. This
shorter processing time will be made possible by effectively eliminating the Supreme
Audit Institution's ex-ante control over all expenditure. However, the Supreme Audit
Institution retains the prerogativeto conduct random pre-audits as it deems appropriate.

55.     In addition, the SYSDEP will be reviewedwith a view to expanding or replacing
it with a more appropriate system that meets the current and future needs o f Government.
For this, we plan to work with CARTAC and the World Bank to carefully review
equivalent systems in use in other countries. Furthermore, with technical and financial
support from the World Bank, the IMF and CARTAC, we plan to carry out a thorough
revue o f our budget management system.

C. Strengtheningfinancial controls
56.     The regulatory provision governing the financial control in the public sector has
been recently finalized and modified by the new Organic Budget Law on the Preparation
and the Execution o f the Budget. The principal innovations o f relevance to financial
control include: eliminating the ex-ante control function o f the Supreme Audit Institution
while reinforcing its ex-post control mandate; streamlining public accounting hctions;
formalizing and reinforcing the Corps of Financial Comptrollers, creating a Corps o f
Public Accountants, and establishing the Department o f Internal Control (Inspection
G6nQale des Finances). The new Organic Budget Law provides a favorable regulatory
environment for the enforcement o f an efficient system of financial control. The
Transitional Government now intends to embark on the following actions: aligning the
regulatory framework with all the provisions of the new Organic Budget Law, including
the publication (by March 2005) of the regulations on the statutes on Public Accountants,
and Financial Comptrollers; establishing the Internal Control department; assigning
Accountants and Auditors to the various public entities; strengthening the operational
capacities o f the entities that are involved in public financial control structure (the
Treasury andthe Office o f Budget Control inthe Ministry o f Economyand Finance), the
Evaluation and Control Direction inthe Ministry o f Planning and External Cooperation,
especially during the transition to the new regulatory framework that would allow them
to carry out their mandate and functions; strengthening the capacity o f the Office o f
Revenue Control (of the Ministry o f Economy and Finance) responsible for auditing
entities entrusted with the receipt or collection o f revenues on behalf o f the government
(including institution own funds). The new Organic Budget Law increases the
responsibility o f Public Authorizing Officers in terms o f compliance with management
norms and the efficient and effective use of public resources; sanctions (disciplinary,
penal or civil) are envisaged in instances o f embezzlement, fraudor other illicit practices.

57.     The Supreme Audit Institution: The actions envisaged include the finalization of
the Decree on the organization of CSCCA (incorporating international best practice) and
its presentation by March 2005 to the President for adoption; the satisfactory
implementation o f the CSCCA restructuring plan (with a focus on training for ex-post
audit); the preparation by the Supreme Audit Institution o f the audit o f the general



                                               58

accounts 2001-02 by February 2005 and that o f 2002-03 by September 2005. We are
committed to finalizing and submitting to the Supreme Audit Institution, by May 2005,
the government's general executed accounts for 2003-04 with a view to their audit.

58.     Furthermore, an Anti-corruption Unit has been established in the Ministry o f
Economy and Finance, and the Government is committed to enforcing transparency
measures in public sector operations (see Matrix o f Actions and Reforms in Annex 1).
Finally, the Government intends to launch, with the technical and financial support o fthe
World Bank, a survey on corruption in Haiti in order to embark on the preparation o f a
coherent national anti-corruption strategy.



D.Improving transparency and efficiency in the management of public enterprisesand
the Road Maintenance Fund (FER)
59.     The respective evaluations provided by the recently appointed CEOs of the
following five public enterprises EDH (electricity), AAN (airports), APN (ports), Teleco
(telecommunications) and CAMEP (urban water), are alarming in every aspects. The
deficiencies inthe critical qualifications o f the professional staff contrast starkly with the
plethora o f non-essential staff. Inparticular, the situation at EDHand Teleco i s worrying
when it comes to cost recovery fkom clients, business practices (theft and fraud) and
human resource management.           Urgent measures are required to restructure these
enterprises which have long been used to meet personal needs o f political powers and
whose management has been typically opaque. The Government intends to enforce
transparency in the management of public enterprises and prepare them for increased
private sector participation to ensure their technical and financial viability which are
critical for the country's economic recovery. This will involve financial andmanagement
audits and the preparationof management contracts. The planned interventions include:

    e   Financial auditing o fAAN, APN and CAMEP.
    e   Financial rehabilitation and subsequent financial auditing o f EDHand Teleco.
    a   Preparation o fthe management contract for EDH.
    e   Management auditing o f AAN, APN and CAMEP.
    e   Evaluating the telecommunications sector, especially with a view to exploring
        options for a broader private-sector participation.

60.      TELECO: The process has been launched with the financial rehabilitation o f
Teleco. The financial audit is expected to begin by May 2005, and would be financed
with localresources should external assistancenot become available.

61.     EDM The European Union has approved financing for the pre-audit; andthe call
for bid for hiring a international firm to carry out the pre-audit will be launched by end-
November 2004. The Canadian International Development Agency has committed to
financing the financial audit. This should allow us to hire, by May2005, an international
firm to carry out the audit.     In addition, we have requested World Bank's financial



                                               59

assistance to launch a series o f studies that would lead to the preparation o f a
management contract by May 2005.

62.     CAMEP: An IDB financial assistance is expected to facilitate the launching by
end-November 2004 o f an international search to hire firms that can perform the
financial, management and technical audit o f CAMEP.

63.     APN: A World Bankfinancial assistance is expected to facilitate the launchingby
end-November 2004 of a call for bid for an international firm to be hired to carry out the
financial audit o f APN.    Steps will continue to be taken to secure financing for the
technical audit component.

64.     AN. The Government is exploring the availability of external assistance to
finance the financial audit and managementkechnical audits o f APN.

65.     We plan to strengthen the regulatory role o f the State in public utility sectors,
ensure the effective functioning o f the currently deficient boards o f directors o f the public
enterprises (especially CAMEP), and develop a countrywide strategy for the potable
water and sanitation sector as well as for the telecommunications sector. Inthe case o f
the telecommunications sector, financing i s requested from the World Bank to launch a
sectoral study o f the telecommunications sector by February 2005, which would greatly
inform sectoral reform decisions.

66.     We hereby confirm that the implementation (coordinating and monitoring) o f the
public enterprises program o f pre-audit, audit and management contract will be entrusted
to the Council for the Modernization o f Public Enterprises (Conseil de Modemisation des
Entreprises Publiques, CMEP). We are also committed to renewing, strengthening and
stimulating this instrument o f dialogue (CMEP) between the State, public enterprises and
the private sector. CMEP was established by legislation in 1996 and receives budgetary
allocations from the State. When its modernization process is finalized (November
2004), measures will be taken to ensure that it is able to carry out the functions for which
it was initially created. Coordination andmonitoring by CMEP will be informedby the
knowledge base acquired through inter-agency and inter-lender technical cooperation. A
strategic planto strengthen decisional, financial, technical, human resource and execution
capacities o f CMEP has been finalized andsubmitted to the World Bank.

67.     The Transitional Government is aware that the deplorable state of the
transportation infrastructure i s a heavy drag on Haiti's economic and social development.
It has therefore decided to create an efficient and sustainable mechanism for road
maintenance that would prevent those portions o f the road network that are currently in
satisfactory condition - or targeted for repair or maintenance - from becoming
prematurely impassable. For this reason, the Government has decided to set up an
autonomous entity, the Road Maintenance Fund(Fonds d 'Entretien Routier, FER) whose
principal mandate is to finance the periodic maintenance of the network o f major roads.
Financing for the FER is expected to come from several sources; the major sources of
financing are linked to the transportation industry. Road users will be therefore

contributing to the repair o f roads. The FERwill not itself perform any roadmaintenance
work but will delegate these to reputable private sector contractors.

68.    The Government has already completed the key steps for the setting up o f the
FER: inJuly 2003, the legislation establishing the FERwas published, and in September
2004 its CEO was appointed. Fiscal year 2004-05 is the opportune time for the gradual
operationalization o f this new instrument with the support o f intemational Donors. Inthe
2004-05 Budget, we have made the necessary allocation to cover the administrative
budget of the FER. Income from projected sources will be duly transferred to the FER.
By early December 2004, the Board o f Directors of FER will have been constituted. In
the coming months, the FER, its Board o f Directors and CEO will, with the technical
assistance o f intemational donors, take the necessary actions to make the FER fully
operational.   In particular, they will define the internal regulations as well as the
convention models for FER'S interventions; and they will also elaborate provisional
budgets and programs for the next three years. Furthermore, the MTPTC will identifythe
priority road networks that might qualify for FER financing, particularly on the basis o f
the condition and importance o f the roads to the socioeconomic development o f Haiti.
To this end, the road inventory project that i s being undertaken with the support o f
international donors will provide useful input.

69.    The FER will sign its first road maintenance contract with a private operator as
soon as possible in fiscal year 2004-05. During its second year o f operation, the new
instrument is expected to experience a marked growth, so that by end o f 2005-06, the
entire network o f recently rehabilitated roads as well as the bulk o f the roads in
satisfactory condition might benefit from an efficient and sustainable maintenance
program. The improved accessibility o f such roads should have an sizeable impact on the
economic and social development o f the regions involved.

E. Reinforcing human resource management
70.     Our public administration is        characterized by inefficiency.      Efforts to
professionalize the public administration have been impeded by political influence as
well as by political uncertainties. Senior management staff account for 5.6 percent o f the
total personnel o f public administration; technical staff make up about 35 to 40 percent,
and support staff account for the rest. The capacity for following up on government
policies is insufficient.   Periodic data and information and studies that can inform
Government public policy decisions are often lacking. Tertiary, professional and
vocational training institutions have not developed appropriate programs inpublic policy
management to meet the skill needs o f the Haitian public administration.

71.     Humm resources will be strengthened within the framework o f the
implementation of the ICF at the decision-making, conceptual and execution levels with
the participation of qualified members o f Haitian Diaspora and consultants, while
ensuring that at least 30 percent o f these are women. Efforts will continue to secure
financing from Donors (notably USAID) to continue to cany out a program to recruit
technicians from the Diaspora, as was recently initiated with OAS financing. Training
programs that are targeted in the short and medium term to consolidate the human



                                             61

resource needs o f Ministries and other Government institutions will be housed inexisting
training centers inthe country and/or developed incollaboration with foreign institutions.
We also plan to adopt a comprehensive action plan by end-November 2004 to reinforce
the human resource management, and to extend the mandate o f the unit in change o f
public sector human resources in the Office o f the Prime Minister to allow it to be in
charge o f the implementation o fthis action plan.

F. Improvinggovernance andpartnerships in theEducation and Health sectors
72.     Education: The private sector dominates the provision of education services,
accounting for 80 percent o f enrollments. The quality and efficiency o f education offered
are very low both inthe private as well as the public sectors, given that only 35 percent o f
children who begin school ever reach the fifth year o f primary education. A major
constraint is the weak capacity o f the Ministry o f Education to exert its normative and
regulatory role in the educational system, a sector particularly hit hard hit by the social
andpolitical crisis. The sectoral priorities have been identifiedinthe National Education
and Training Plan (Plan National d'Education et de Formation, PNEF); and the
consolidation of sectoral governance is a requisite priority for the implementation o f this
plan. The Government intends to develop regulatory and quality control instruments by:
improving budgetary procedures; enhancing plans to train supervisors and inspectors;
strengthening information management and archiving; establishing a Partnership Office
byMarch 2005, alongwith a system o f accreditation andevaluation, and a mechanism to
transfer financing to qualifyingprivate school as way o f improve equity and quality inthe
private education system; encouraging stakeholders to participate inthe decision-making
process and in the management o f schools in their communities; finalizing the National
Strategy for Education for All (Stratkgie nationale d 'action pour 1'education pour tous,
EPT). To support the public-private sector partnership in education, it is important to
reinforce the capacity o f civil society to monitor and evaluate the performance o f schools
and the quality o f education. Toward this end, the survey mechanism (citizen report
cards) will be used on a pilot basis, to elicit the input o f users and parents in assessing
educational services.

73.     Health: Similar to the education sector, the private sector and NGOs play a key
role inproviding health services. However, weak supply o f health services by the public
sector, weak regulatory and control capacities at the local and central levels have led to
inadequate geographic distribution o f the supply o f health services, non-standardized and
often low-quality healthcare services. The capacity to manage deconcentrated offces o f
the government at the local level is weak.         The Transitional Government plans to
strengthen the capacities of the public healthcare system countrywide within the
framework o f contracts with micro-insurance companies (see Matrix o f Actions and
Reforms inAnnex 1). It also plans to define the legal and regulatory framework o f such
operations, reinforce the capacity o f the Ministryo f Health inthe regulatory oversight o f
these contracts, ensure that the services are provided within the framework o f sectoral
decentralization, and improve the financial capacity o f State structures at the sub-national
level.




                                             62

G. Strengthening civil society participation and the dissemination of information to
thepopulation

74.      An essential component of the governance program is the reinforcement of the
State-civil society partnership with the view to strengthening the credibility o f the public
sector, responding to the concems o f the population, and consolidating the synergetic
collaboration between the State and the private sector. The Government seeks to secure
civil society involvement in the formulation and monitoring o f policies. In addition, it
plans to set up a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating economic governance
reforms. This mechanism will consist o f a consultative committee (CC), an executive
secretariat (ES), and a number o f civil society organizations charged with monitoring
specific components o f the economic governance program. The Minister of Economy
and Finance will form the CC and will be charged with ensuring that members o f the CC
are upright, highly esteemed citizens. The CC will play a key role inthe selection of the
ES through a transparent and competitive process. It will also be responsible for the
efficient operation o f the monitoring mechanism. The ES will be an independent entity
attached to the Ministryo f Economy and Finance through a contract that authorizes it to
recruit civil society organizations (CSOs) to monitor specific components o f the
economic govemance program. Itwill also supervise the work o f these organizations and
will publishtheir report according to the provisions andprinciples outlined in their terms
o f reference. The CSOs will monitor the component that has been assigned to them per
their terms ofreference as well as prepare a report to be submittedto the ES. We intend
to finalize the terms o f reference for the CC andthe ES and the composition of the CC by
end-November 2004, and promptly proceed with the hiringo f the ES. We are committed
to work with the CC, the ES and the CSOs to: (1) facilitate the CSOs' access to the
information and data they need to effectively monitor the modules of the economic
governance program, and (2) finding the ways and means to implement the
recommendations that might come out o f the follow-ups performed by these CSOs and
disseminated by the ES.

75.      The Transitional Government plans to also improve the public's access to
information on economic governance policies, starting by evaluating its capacity to
facilitate access to financial and fiscal information, and including civil society in the
monitoring o f poverty-reducing expenditures. It is also envisaged to organize workshops
with broad participation o f different sectors o f Haitian society, in several regions of the
country with the goal o f elaboratingthe FY2005-06 public investment program.

76.      Furthermore, the Transitional Government intends to establish a strategy and
mechanism to facilitate communication with the general public. Within this context, it
will appoint by early-December 2004 a coordinator to be responsible for communication
and outreach and interaction with civil society on matters relating to economic
governance refom.        This will help establish linkages between communication and
outreach, on the one hand, and civil society monitoring, on the other.             Economic
governance reforms will be communicated to stakeholders andthe general public through
the media. For example, the ICFthematic report on economic govemance was translated
into Creole and widely disseminated throughout the country.                     n


                                             63

        V. Additional measuresto ensureprogramimplementation
                                   and monitoring

77.    To ensure the implementation and monitoring o f the program, the Transitional
Government plans to: establish (within the Ministry o f Economy and Finance) a unit for
the strategic monitoring of economic governance policies and for coordinating the
assistance expected from the various donors who are committed to supporting Haiti's
economic governance efforts; strengthen the capacity to produce and disseminate
economic and statistical information, for example through the strengthening o f the
capacity of the Haitian Institute o f Statistics and Information Management (Institut
Hai'tien de Statistiques et d'Informatique,   IHSI) and the Department o f Economic
Research (Direction des Etudes Economiques, DEE) to compile, analyze, generate,
supply and disseminate statistical and economic information.      Also, the Transitional
Government is committed to providing to the World Bank, on a quarterly basis, relevant
information and statistical data to ensure the monitoring o f World Bank-supported
actions.

                     VI. Requestfor financialassistance

78.     The Transitional Government is determined to respond to the multi-faceted crisis
facing Haiti. We intend to do so by trying to respond to the immediate needs o f the
populationthat has been sufferingfor years, but also by laying the foundation o f a culture
o f good economic governance which, we hope, will stay beyond the end o f the transition
period. Therefore, we have prepared and are determined to implement the economic
governance reform program presented inthis letter anddetailed inthe matrix in Annex 1.
The Transitional Government hopes to receive technical and financial support from the
World Bank for the implementation o f these ambitious but necessary reforms.

79.     The Transitional Government hereby assures the World Bank o f its continued
commitment and collaboration to ensure the successful implementationo f this economic
governance program.

                                       Sincerely,




                                          - __I
                                     Henri BAZIN
                           Minister o f Economy andFinance


Attachment :
Annex 1: Matrix o f economic governance reforms



                                           64

c)
0
rl
x
      P




           aE!

II




 e
 E
 P


 a
 .I
 *
 w*a
 CI
 eb
 0

=
I-

t------




I




I

m
I




 g2B
 UI




 hd
 6

/s




                                            P




L-
 .-*
 e

 wa
 Y


 6tI
 I




       ...  ..  .   ...  __ ... .
                                .    . -

0
I




 .-
 Y


 Y
 a
 iij
 Y
 e
 V
 z

P




 .-
 C

 I


 I
 
 3
 c,



 6
 5t



 e
 .-?.
 U

 i
 I

1   ;
I
I




     *



     U




     at?
     e
     -.-k
I


I




.se
Y
*
3
ijj
Y
5
u
i



4
i!
.-k
3
I




L

        ,



0
a




 5
 I


 .-b
 I

            \




I-----




t-----




       d

I------
1 3




t-

.er
m




U

P

U
nl

I P




   .-Q
   g3

   P
   5
   d
I


i

3




     m
     Dc,

Annex 7:      Key Allocations in the Government FY2004-05 Budget for Implementing
Economic Governance Measures Supported by the EGRO


Inaddition to increased allocation to social sectors, the FY2004-05 budget makes provisions for
financing many of the measures required to implement the government's economic governance
program as follows.
   The Budget of the Ministry of Finance includes allocation to finance the hiring of public
    accountants to be placed inkey Ministries.
   The Budget of the Supreme Audit Institution has been increased to Gourdes 99.6 million
   from Gourdes 72.1 million the previous year.
   A budget allocation of Gourdes 24 million has been made to the newly established Public
    Procurement Commission - Commission Nationale IntCrimaire des MarchCs Publics
    (CNIMP).
   A budget allocation of Gourdes 15 million has been made to the newly established Anti-
    Corruption Unit-Unit6 de Lutte Contre la Corruption
    A budget allocation of Gourdes 26.5 million has been made to cover the administrative
    budgetof the created RoadMaintenance Fund(Fonds d'Entretien Routier).
    A budget allocation of Gourdes 3.5 million has been made to the soon to be established
    office of public-private partnership in the Ministry of Education. The budget of the Ministry
    of Health includes funds for establishing an office of public-private partnership for health
    insurance and service delivery.
    An allocation of Gourdes 3 million has been set aside in the budget of the Ministry of
    Economy and Finance to cover the cost of a Communication/Civil Society Relations Unit.
    A budget allocation of Gourdes 29.8 million has been made to the Conseil de Modernisation
    des Entreprises Publiques to allow it to take the function of coordinating the program of
    preparation of public enterprise pre-audit, audit and management contract.
    Increase allocation has been made for the Center for Civil Service training (CEFOPAFOP)
    which receives an allocation of Gourdes 8.5 million against Gourdes 3.3 million in FY2003-
    04, and the Ministry of Planning's training center for Planning and Applied Economics
    Center which receives and allocation of 16.6 million against Gourde 7.1 million inFY2003-
    04.
    Moreover, the FY05 budget makes a significant allocation for a higher wage bill to provide
    for the recruitment of quality staff in sectors (including the Police) that are critical for the
    successful implementation of the Interim Cooperation Framework. The administrative cost of
    the office for the coordination of the ICF will be absorbed by the budget of the Prime
    Minister's Office as well as by donor funding.
    The FY05 also makes a significant provision for arrears payment and debt services. The
    budget for arrears payment and debt services increases from Gourdes 2.3 billion in FY2003-
    04 to Gourdes 3.3 billioninFY2004-05.


Sources: GovemmentBudgetfor October 2004 to September2005




                                                     84

MAP SECTION


