Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/09/2009 
Report No.:  AC4366
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sudan 
Project ID:  P116923 
Project Name:  Abyei Start Up Emergency Project 
Task Team Leader:  Abderrahim Fraiji 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: April 22, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTCS 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Water supply (52%);Sub-national government administration (26%);General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (16%);Health (6%) 
Theme:  Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (100%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for North Sudan 
6.00
6.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Program has two key objectives: to contribute in equipping the Abyei locality 
administrations with the resources to oversee recovery of the conflict-affected region and 
to kick-start the recovery process through the supply of basic services and rural 
livelihood support.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project is a Start-Up/Emergency program for Abyei. It will address some emergency 
needs in basic services and provide resources to contribute in enabling the Abyei locality 
administrations to adequately function. The project will also target kick-starting and 
improving rural livelihoods through rural development support. (25 months)  
 
Component 1:  Locality Administration Support: US$1.197 million  
 
This component will support decentralization in the area to allow the four Abyei 
localities to play an integral role in the Abyei Area Administration (AAA) through 
provision of facilities and resources that will allow them to function and meet their 
respective localities’ recovery objectives through planning, developing, and 
implementing essential programs and projects. This component will fund office facilities, 
equipment and vehicles to enable local administration to function.  
Page  2
It will fund the following: Construction of a headquarters (HQ) facility with 4 offices 
and 1 meeting room for each of the 4 locality administrations, and some basic office 
equipment. Given the urgency of this intervention, private contractors will be engaged 
under supervision of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which will also prepare the 
necessary detailed designs and budgets for the works to be implemented. Supporting 
equipment and vehicles will also be procured to facilitate the work of the authorities at 
the locality level, including: computers, VSAT internet, all-in-one 
photocopier/scanner/printer, telephones with pbax, and a fax machine for each locality, 
IT installation and training, and 1 car for each locality (Land Cruiser 4x4).  
 
Justification:  
 
Just emerging from a conflict situation, the locality authorities do not currently have the 
physical capacity to carry out day-to-day activities or develop recovery projects or 
programs. The recent conflict (May 2008) in the area led to the burning of the four 
localities’ HQs which were made of straw. A more practicaland permanent arrangement 
is urgently required since appointed locality administrators are currently not functioning 
at this critical rehabilitation period for Abyei. They have no offices in which to function, 
and no means of transportation or communication. The localities will therefore be 
provided the tools so that they can work and participate in the administration of the AAA 
and thus carry out the mandate of implementing the Abyei Road Map. This Road Map 
was derived from the Abyei Protocol of the CPA and its successful implementation is 
paramount to securing and maintaining peace in the Abyei area and in Sudan as a whole. 
This component will complement the planned intervention of the Abyei Rehabilitation 
and Recovery Programme and the USAID funded Bridge Program which will target 
locality administration capacity building in financial management, human resources and 
strategy/planning.  
 
Component 2:  Water Supply: US$2.952 million  
 
This component will support the construction and rehabilitation of improved water 
sources throughout Abyei (50 new hand pumps, 5 hafir and 5 water yards), in order to 
provide access to potable water at a reasonable rate per capita for both human use and to 
meet livestock needs. This component will be implemented by the PCU together with the 
Abyei Infrastructure and Public Utilities Department and a specialist contractor. The 
Abyei Infrastructure and Public Utilities Department has undertaken a survey to identify 
the priority interventions for this component.  
 
Management of these water points is a critical issue which will be addressed by 
establishing community water resource management committees in and from each of the 
beneficiary areas. Since water points were one of the main reasons for conflict between 
agriculturalists and pastoralists, care will be taken in selection of management teams 
which will include representatives from both sides. User fees will be collected by the 
community committees according to area, size of household and heads of livestock. This 
structure reinforces the traditional community water yard management system in place in 
Sudan, and which has proven successful in previous MDTF emergency projects (e.g. 
South Kordofan) and in partner agency experiences.  Communities will be empowered 
Page  3
through provision of training and capacity building on resource management skills. A 
maintenance/ rehabilitation unit will also be trained and provided with basic maintenance 
equipment.  
 
Justification:  
 
Although water access in Abyei is better relative to other basic services (education, 
health), it is a major source of conflict as access to safe drinking water is severely limited 
and water for animals during the dry season is very scarce. Abyei was seriously affected 
by the North-South war, with infrastructure and basic services, including water points, 
left in poor condition. The increasing number of returnees will place further strains on the 
limited water supply points, and will aggravate the acute shortage of safe water. Access 
to water for human and productive uses is a key point of contention between nomads and 
sedentary farmers, and provision of additional or improved water sources can help to 
reduce group tensions. Although there have been previous water projects in the area, 
water points in Abyei have not been segregated (residents and livestock) and are thus 
unhygienic and an ongoing source of conflict. This component will therefore contribute 
to peace-building by ensuring that water points are adequately fenced. Finally, there is a 
clear need to address the issue of non-functioning water points. 25-30% of water 
yards/points are lost each year in Abyei due to breakage. To this end the weak 
implementing capacity of the AAA with regards to maintenance and management of 
water supply will be strengthened through the procurement and training of a maintenance 
unit.  
 
Component 3:  Rural Development (Agriculture):  US$0.903 million  
 
Agriculture is the primary livelihood for the Abyei community. The productivity of this 
sector was disrupted by the 20 year civil war and continues to be hampered by a lack of 
equipment and resources. This component implemented by the PCU together with the 
Agriculture Department of the AAA, which is being advised by FAO, will coordinate the 
community cultivation of 10,000 feddans over the next rainy season. About 5,000 
households, targeted equally between Dinka and Misseriya tribes, will be involved in this 
project which is expected to have a total 25,000 poor and marginalized rural community 
beneficiaries. Necessary equipment has been requested for procurement by the 
Agriculture Department (under the guidance of FAO). Due to the disruption and 
displacement caused by the civil war, community organizations in and around Abyei are 
currently facing organizational issues and lack of human resources. For this reason the 
equipment procured under this component will initially be managed by the Agriculture 
Department and PCU to be loaned out to farmers free of charge; farmers will also be 
provided with fuel and extension services by the Agriculture Department. Management of 
this equipment will be transferred to the community through the Abyei Farmer’s Union 
prior to the commencement of the next rainy season, which the Agriculture Department 
of the AAA expects to be set up and operating by then. The long term role of the 
Agriculture Department will be solely that of guidance and extension agent. This 
component will procure essential equipment, including tractors, which will raise 
productivity beyond subsistence levels, 700 sacks  of sorghum seeds for which the area 
has a comparative advantage (fruit and vegetable seeds are being supplied by FAO) and 
distribution of 12,500 sets of (Khartoum purchased) hand tools (62,500 beneficiaries 
Page  4
including returnees and IDPs, Dinka and Misseriya)and will make allowance for the 
development of pest management plan to be implemented under this component.  
 
As there are no storage facilities for grain, this component will also fund construction of 
two (20 x 10 x 4 metre) grain stores.  
 
Justification:  
 
Agriculture is the main economic activity in the area, with more than 30,000 km2 
suitable for agriculture and pastoral production. Despite this, the potential offered by 
agriculture has not been utilized as the area has experienced years of war, insecurity and 
marginalization. The area is highly underdeveloped, and many people live in extremely 
harsh conditions with little access to basic services, agriculture inputs, extension services, 
marketing structures and infrastructure. Food production has fallen substantially due to 
insecurity, restricted access to productive assets and continuous population displacement. 
As a result, the Abyei population has become almost totally dependant on external food 
aid.  
 
It is under these circumstances that thousands of returnees will arrive in the Abyei area 
from Khartoum and from areas further south with the intension of rebuilding livelihoods 
shattered by years of conflict. Hence, there is an added urgency in supporting rural 
development to accommodate expected population influxes, improve livelihoods and 
food security, and reduce dependence on food aid.  
 
Component 4:  Contributing to the rehabilitation of Abyei Hospital (Health):  
US$0.4005 million  
 
This component will contribute to the rehabilitation of the Abyei Hospital building and 
its major departments (laboratory, delivery room, operating and small theatres), which 
were severely damaged by the war. The component will also provide necessary basic 
equipment to allow the respective departments to function, and makes allowance for safe 
medical waste management and disposal. This component is based on the needs 
assessment of the Abyei Social Services Department which will have overall as well as 
implementation responsibility along with the PCU.  
 
According to WHO estimates, this Hospital is conceived as the main referral centre in 
the area with ability to provide secondary level care but presently provides rudimentary 
medical services to the population. It can receive more than 200 patients / day for 
outpatient treatment besides 7-10 new admissions / day and 7-8 deliveries / week.  
 
Justification:  
 
The AAA highlighted their concern regarding the likelihood of disease outbreak 
associated with the return of IDPs to the area and forecast a meningitis risk in February-
May 2009. Abyei hospital which was partially destroyed during the war is ill-equipped to 
deal with day-to-day cases let alone such an outbreak and the Social Services Department 
has made it clear that emergency intervention is needed. The AAA specifically requested 
this support, which will complement planned primary health activities targeted at rural 
populations by UN agencies and NGOs.  
Page  5
Component 5:    Implementation of a Project Coordination Unit (Project management):   
US$ 0.5475  
 
The project will fund technical assistance for the coordination of the project.  
 
A
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within the Abyei Area 
Administration (AAA). Besides overall coordination responsibilities (including the 
preparation of the quarterly reports for all components), the PCU has also an 
implementation role to play for the project's (sub-) components. A group of consultants 
with accounting, procurement and project management expertise will be recruited to 
work together with a group of appointed young AAA staff to operate the Project 
Coordination Unit (PCU). For funds routed through the unit, the group of consultants will 
provide overall management and the full range of accounting and procurement services, 
including reporting based upon global best practice and international accounting 
standards. Monitoring of self-managed financial management and procurement 
responsibilities will form a key part of this support. The PCU staff, assisted by the World 
Bank task team, will be reponsable for ensuring efficient implementation of the ESMF.  
 
Justification:  
 
As the respective line departments as well as their representatives at the locality level, 
do not have the necessary capacity, the PCU is needed to assure/assist in  
 
the field of financial management and procurement services (the design and  
 
preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of offers, and awarding of  
 
contracts).   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project activities will include: (i) construction of headquarters in the four localities 
(Agok, Naam, Agany, Majak); (ii) drilling and installation of water yards (5), and hand 
pumps (50) and digging of hafir (5), across Abyei town and the four localities; (iii) 
construction of two 20x10x4 metre grain stores in Abyei town; and (iv) rehabilitation of 
the hospital in Abyei town.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Edward Felix Dwumfour (AFTEN) 
Mr Abderrahim Fraiji (AFTCS) 
 
Page  6
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Safeguard issues will be limited to potential environmental and social impacts related to 
the construction of government headquarters, two grain stores, rehabilitation of Abyei 
hospital, the drilling/installation of 50 hand pumps, 5 water yards and the digging of 5 
hafirsas well as impacts related to the potential increase in use of pesticides and fertilizer 
to increase agricultural production.  
 
Environmental  
 
The components of the proposed project that might generate any environmental impacts 
include: locality administration support, water, rural development and contributing to the 
rehabilitation of Abyei Hospital (health). Based upon available information, the impacts 
are likely to be minimal, local in extent and readily assessed, mitigated and managed. 
Sources of adverse environment impact may relate to the following activities:  
 
Land clearing and physical construction: With respect to construction work 
(Components 1 & 2), it is unlikely that these civil works will cause any adverse risk to 
the biophysical environment on a large-scale because land and vegetation cover clearing 
will be limited to old sites where locality administration office buildings stood. In the 
case of provision of water supply (including establishment of water points for livestock), 
land needed for such construction will be small in size. Other potential risks to the 
physical environment include the generation of dust and noise from construction work 
but this is likely to be localized and easily contained by adhering to construction norms. 
Within the context of resettling refugees and reviving a devastated agricultural sector, 
farm expansions are likely to occur, and more vegetation clearing is likely to take place 
on fallow lands and non-agricultural lands such as forests and riverine areas. Potential 
risks could include loss of vegetation cover and biodiversity, land degradation, soil 
erosion, sedimentation of rivers and streams, invasion by noxious weeds and other 
opportunistic plants.  
 
Agricultural intensification and input supply: Under Component 2 &3, project funds 
would be provided to support the adoption of productivity-enhancing technologies, 
Page  7
including small-scale irrigation, mechanization and intensification of agricultural 
production through use of high-yield variety seeds. Project funds will also be used to 
construct two grain stores for storage of grain. To ensure a longer shelf life for stored 
grain it is likely that the Abyei community may resort to pesticides to prevent infestations 
by grain borer or weevils and attack by fungal and bacterial diseases. These may be 
harmful to humans and animals, including livestock. On the biophysical environment 
possible observable significant adverse impacts may include salinization of soils, 
contamination of groundwater/surface water, eutrophication of aquatic systems and 
associated weed growth, loss of biodiversity, soil compaction from tractor use, increased 
pest problems. Improper transport, storage, distribution, use and disposal of leftovers and 
containers for agrochemicals, including inorganic fertilizers may pose health and safety 
risks to workforce, users and non-users and local communities as well as animal life. 
These impacts may manifest as skin diseases, nausea and dizziness, irritations and 
inflammations of the nasal tract and poisoning as people and animals come into direct 
contact with them or inhale fertilizer dust in the atmosphere. Consequently, a pest 
management plan will be prepared for the project, and will be included in the ESMF.  
 
Health-care (Medical-care) Waste: This project will provide funds for rehabilitation 
work and supply of equipment to the Abyei hospital. Impacts are likely to be generated 
during 3 stages of rehabilitation namely: (a) pre-constructional phase, including clearing 
of vegetation and rubble; (b) construction phase involving clearing of the site, digging, 
transfer of sand, stone, and cement to the site, and mortar and concrete mixing, 
transportation of the equipment and machines to the site and subsequent installation; and 
(c) operational phase. The operational phase impacts will include a large component of 
general waste and smaller proportion of hazardous waste which may contain infectious 
agents, toxic or hazardous chemicals or pharmaceuticals and sharps. They may be 
genetoxic or radioactive.  Exposure to hazardous health-care waste can result in disease 
or injury.  There is a particular concern about infection with immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV), hepatitis B and C, for which there is strong evidence of transmission via health-
care waste.  
 
Proper treatment and controlled disposal of health-care waste is necessary to ensure that 
its impact on the health workers, waste collectors, the public and the environment as a 
whole is minimized or eliminated. Proper treatment of solid health-care waste ensures 
that harmful properties of these materials are eliminated and the risk of contamination 
and infection minimized.  The treatment and disposal must be monitored and documented 
for future reference. The best disposal methods for treated health-care waste are 
controlled disposal at a proper sanitary landfill and burial in cemeteries or crematorium. 
At Appraisal the task team will check the existence of a Healthcare Waste Management 
Strategy/Plan for Sudan, in which case this could be adopted for Abyei. I the event that 
no Plan exist, this project will do a health-care waste management plan or guidelines as 
minimum that will describe how waste will be segregated, packed, handled stored, 
treated, transported, disposed and monitored. Such a plan or guidelines will also outline 
training and capacity building needs, competencies and responsibilities for health-care 
waste management at Abyei hospital.  
 
Page  8
Social  
 
Significant adverse social safeguard impacts are not expected to occur under this 
Project.  
 
Projects in Disputed Areas: OP/BP 7.60 will not be triggered. The arbitration 
concerning the delimitation of the Abyei area is currently pending before a five-member 
tribunal of the Permanent Court of Arbitration. The tribunal was constituted pursuant to 
an arbitration agreement between the Government of Sudan and the Sudan People's 
Liberation Movement/Army. The Bank, in supporting the project, does not intend to 
make any judgment on the legal or other status of the Abyei area or to prejudice the final 
determination of the parties' claims to it.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12): will not be triggered. Land expropriation and 
involuntary resettlement will not occur since construction of office buildings will be at 
old sites where once locality administration office buildings or Abyei hospital stood. For 
other civil works such as the construction of grain storage facilities and drinking water 
facilities/points for human and animal consumption the communities have offered 
communally-
held lands as “gift” for these purposes. Land sizes for these works are 
expected to be very small, and cumulative impacts are expected to be ephemeral.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10): The Bank’s policy on indigenous peoples will not be 
triggered. Neither the pastoralist Dinkas nor the sedentary Misseriya farmers can be 
classified as indigenous peoples in Sudan. This matter was clarified at review.  
 
There could however be some significant adverse social impacts of this project outside 
safeguards and these may be conflicts resulting from poor distribution of resources, 
including land for shelter and farming as more and more returnees and IDPs, Dinka and 
Misseriya emerge. Social cohesion could be at risk. But elite capture of the distribution of 
agricultural inputs may emerge. The project may negatively affect gender and vulnerable 
groups such as returnees and IDPs. Experience has shown that women (particularly 
women-headed households) tend to be marginalized in the supply and distribution of 
farm inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides, so it is possible that this Project will 
disadvantage women and other vulnerable groups.  
 
In this regard, it is expected that the social assessment to be conducted (independent of 
the ESMF) will elaborate on these social impacts of project activities outside safeguards; 
it will also clarify how rural women farmers and vulnerable groups can participate in 
project activities, including supply and distribution of agrochemicals and other farm 
inputs without any discrimination.   
 
Page  9
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The project activities will not incur potential indirect and/or long-term impacts due to the 
planned construction and rehabilitation activities, and agricultural development 
interventions.  However, the management of health-care waste will need special planning 
and capacity for safe pest management will have to be strengthened under the project.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Given that a number of sub-project sites are not known at this point in time, it is 
recommended that the Client prepares an Environmental and Social Management 
Framework (ESMF). This Framework must assures compliance with requirements of 
Sudan and the World Bank and builds on domestic environmental laws and regulations 
and Bank safeguard policies. The Framework will also demonstrate how to incorporate 
environmental and social safeguard requirements during preparation, appraisal and 
implementation of agriculture and forestry projects supported under the MDTF. The 
ESMF will include relevant plans for safe medical waste management and safe pest 
potential impacts of construction(component 1,2,3 and 4).  
 
To be developed also (as part of the ESMF)is an Environmental and Social Management 
Plan (ESMP), checklist of possible environmental and social impacts (including social 
risks outside of safeguards) and identifies corresponding mitigation measures, including 
the identification of environmental and social training needs and capacity building 
measures, institutional arrangements and responsibilities for implementation and 
monitoring of mitigation plans.  
 
Notwithstanding that an ESMF/ESMP will be prepared to cover the entire Project, the 
results of the environmental and social screening process outlined in the ESMF will 
determine whether any sub-project requires a seperate ESIA report in which case 
mitigation plan will be developed prio to commencement of the actual sub project (s).  
 
A
Pest Management Plan/Integrated Pest Management Plan will be done as an integral 
part of the ESMF.  
 
A
Social Assessment will be carried out to evaluate the project’s potential positive and 
adverse effects the Dinka and Misseriya people, returnees and IDPs, women and other 
vulnerable groups, and to examine mitigations where adverse effects may be significant.   
 
Borrower capacity  
 
The AAA’s capacity for safeguard policies is limited. As noted above, the project will 
be closely supervised and will be implemented in cooperation with a PCU knowledgeable 
about World Bank procedures (including use of the Africa Region’s Environmental 
Guidelines for CDD Projects ) and by implementing agencies with environmental and 
social procedures and policies acceptable to the Bank. The project will also include 
Page  10
training and capacity building for environmental, social and health-care waste 
management in its capacity building program.  
 
At the federal level in Sudan the National Council for Environment and Natural 
Resources (NCENR) and the Environmental Department, both of the Ministry of 
Environment and Physical Development monitor compliance with environmental 
safeguards. While capacity at the NCENR to carry out environmental and social reviews 
appear adequate, the same cannot be said about the Environment Department whose staff 
strength in terms of quantity and quality is low.  With the exception of Khartoum and the 
Red Sea State, no other states in north Sudan have institutional arrangements with clear 
mandate and responsibility for enforcement and monitoring of environmental safeguard 
compliance.  
 
At the state level, the Ministry with responsibility for agriculture and forestry has fairly 
good caliber staff including extension staff who can provide support to farmers and 
pastoralists in the application of agro-chemicals including inorganic fertilizers. Also 
Agriculture Ministries are expected to establish understanding with the soil and water 
testing laboratories to provide soil and water testing support, including proposing 
appropriate doses for different soils so as to prevent overuse of fertilizer. As part of the 
overall effort to ensure that environmental and social safeguard is fully mainstreamed in 
the Project, the Ministries of Agriculture in the selected locality will continue public 
education and awareness creation programs with the aim of reaching out to beneficiaries 
of the Project, and training key staff from these Ministries, particularly at the district and 
sub-district levels and other collaborating institutions, including civil society 
organizations, input suppliers and distributors as well as beneficiary farmers.  
 
State Ministries of Agriculture are familiar with farmer field schools where farmers 
receive hands-on training on a number of agronomic practices including integrated pest 
management (IPM) and safe use of agrochemicals. The farmer field schools have been 
applied successfully in some parts of Sudan and this concept will be adopted and spread 
into the project areas. Ideally, these processes should be started immediately, so that a 
critical mass of expertise would be already on the ground prior to actual roll out of 
project activities.  
 
The federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has developed guidelines for agro-
chemical and fertilizer application, which is widely used by the extension agents as a 
guide in advising farmers on the distribution, transport, storage and application of 
agrochemicals as well as the disposal of leftovers and containers. These guidelines 
emphasize the large-scale adoption of integrated pest management (IPM) practices as the 
best appropriate, cost-effective and environmentally safe option for disease and pest 
prevention and control.  
 
The capacity of the federal and state Ministries for Health to manage medical-care waste 
will be screened during Appraisal by the task team. Capacity building and institutional 
strengthening in environmental and monitoring and compliance enforcement become 
Page  11
critical to the success of ensuring potential risks are mitigated or minimized and the 
project will have to fund these activities.  
 
Government of National Unity will, in collaboration with the Environment Department 
of the Ministry of Environment and Physical Development, develop an ESMF (including 
ESMP) for ESMF developed for Agricultural and Forestry Projects with a section on Pest 
Management Plan (PMP), health-care waste management plan/guidelines, within 4 
months after the Effective Date of the Project. A social assessment will also be developed 
independently of the ESMF. These reports will contain mitigation plans and/or project 
alternatives describing the critical link between measures to mitigate adverse impacts and 
the integration of such measures during the implementation and operation of the project.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include participating Abyei administration departments, locality 
administrations as well as potentially affected persons. Others will be the state Ministries 
of Agriculture and Forestry, Irrigation and Water Resources, Health, district level 
extension agents, input and service providers, farmers, farmer cooperatives and their 
unions, Dinka and Misseriya leaders, returnees and IDPs, women and other vulnerable 
groups as well as communities living in the project areas. The federal and state Ministries 
for Health will be key allies in the implementation and supervision of Component 4 
(Abyei hospital rehabilitation). Consultations with these stakeholders are already 
happening as part of the project preparation, and further consultations will take place 
during implementation of project activities, particularly in the selection of sites and sub-
projects as well as the preparation and implementation of the various safeguard reports.  
 
The ESMF will be disclosed in-country and at the infoshop with six months of project 
effectiveness.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/02/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/19/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/16/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Page  12
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/02/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/19/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/16/2009 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
Yes 
Page  13
documents? 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Abderrahim Fraiji 
04/23/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Edward Felix Dwumfour 
04/23/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Naima A Hasci 
04/23/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
04/23/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ian Bannon 
04/23/2009 
Comments:   
