 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14629

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 04/13/2015

              Country: Sudan
            Project ID: P116923                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Abyei Start Up               Project Costs (US$M):            US$ 6.00M            US$ 2.46M
                        Emergency Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):              US$ 6.00M            US$ 2.46M
      Sector Board:       Social Development         Cofinancing (US$M):                     NA                   NA

          Cofinanciers: NA                            Board Approval Date :                                  05/01/2009
                                                               Closing Date:             06/30/2011          06/30/2011
         Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (40%); Crops (20%); Health (20%); Water supply
                          (20%)
         Theme(s):        Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (75% - P); Other rural development
                          (10%); Rural services and infrastructure (10%); Water resource management (3%);
                          Decentralization (2%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy Christopher David            Christopher David         IEGPS1
                     Nelson                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 The objectives of the project were "to help secure peace and recovery by contributing in equipping the
Abyei locality administrations with the resources to oversee recovery of the conflict affected region and to
kick-start the recovery and reconciliation process through the supply of basic services and rural livelihood
support" (Grant Agreement page #9).

The statement of objectives in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) differs from the above. It states “to
contribute in equipping the Abyei local administrations with the resources to oversee recovery of the
conflict-affected region and to supply some basic services and rural livelihood support in targeted areas”
(PAD page #7)

The review considers the statement of objectives from the Grant agreement as the bench mark of
evaluation based on the harmonized guidance of IEG/OPCS and given there were only minor differences
in the two documents.

The PDO remained unchanged throughout the lifetime of the project. Following the Mid-term
Review (MTR), the key development outcome (DO) and intermediate outcome (IO) indicators were
revised.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 There were five components and they were not revised during the project.

Component 1: Local Administration Support (appraisal US$1.197 M and actual US$-NA-M) The
objective of the component was to make local authorities more visible and provide them with the basic
physical means to function. This included construction of a headquarters with four offices and one
meeting room for each of the four local administrations, totaling 16 furnished offices and four meeting
rooms across the four localities, as well as the procurement of supporting equipment and vehicles.

Component 2: Water Supply (appraisal: US$2.952M and actual US$-NA-M)
The objective of the component was to support construction and rehabilitation of water sources
throughout Abyei to improve access to potable water on a reasonable per capita basis for use by humans
and livestock.

Component 3: Rural Development [Agriculture] (appraisal: US$0.903M and actual US$-NA-M) The
objective of the component was to contribute toward restoring productivity of the agriculture sector by
procuring essential equipment which will raise productivity beyond subsistence levels.

Component 4: Contributing to the Rehabilitation of Abyei Hospital [Health] (appraisal: US$0.4005M
and actual US$-NA-M) The objective of the component was to contribute to the rehabilitation of the major
departments in Abyei Hospital and provide necessary basic equipment required for all departments to
function.

Component 5: Project Management (appraisal cost: US$0.5475 M and actual: US$0.726 M)
The objective of the component was to establish a PCU within the Abyei Area Administration and provide
comprehensive technical assistance (TA), including in financial management (FM), procurement, project
management, and monitoring. The established Project Coordination Unit (PCU) staff, assisted by Bank
staff, was responsible for ensuring efficient implementation of the Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) in collaboration with relevant technical line Ministries and their international
counterparts.

Changes During Implementation
The Abyei protocol was cancelled and AAA was dissolved due to further deterioration of the environment.
Since the dissolution of the AAA, travel to Abyei was restricted by GoNU, no follow-up missions were
conducted and PCU members left Abyei..

Extension of the closing date was considered by the mission following the MTR in March-April 2011 but it
was held off due to a failure to recruit a full-time experienced Procurement Office, deteriorating security in
Abyei and the State being placed under Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) administration. This led to an
agreement for retroactive extension of the project if and when the political and security situation were to
make it possible.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 The appraisal cost was US$ 6.00M while the actual cost was US$ 2.46M. The Bank showed
considerable flexibility to keep the grant balance on hold until September 11, 2012, before finally
releasing this balance to the MDTF-N pool due to lack of improvement in the situation in Abyei to allow for
project’s implementation.

Financing

Of the approved MDTF-N Grant in the amount of US$6.00M, the actual disbursement was US$ 2.46 M
(ICR, Annex 1). The reason for the lack of full disbursement was that the project was in preparation mode
for a lengthy period and implementation was affected by highly fragile and conflict conditions, cancellation
of the Abyei protocol and the dissolution of AAA. There were no other external sources of finance.

Borrower Contribution:
The original grantee commitment was US$ 0.40 million. It was reduced to US$ 0.15 million due to
implications from the volatile nature of the environment. The revised contribution was fully expended
towards ineligible expenditures and this accounted for 37.5% of the original borrower commitment.

Dates:
Project closed on schedule on 06/30/2011.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial

The development objective was and remained coherent with: (i) the 2005 Comprehensive Peace
Agreement (CPA); (ii) the 2008 Road Map for the Return of IDPs and Implementation of the Abyei
Protocol; (iii) the 2005 Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) and subsequent GoNU Strategic Plan (2007- 11);
and (iv) Bank strategy {Country Re-engagement Note and Interim Strategy Note (ISN -2008-09)}.

The relevance of the objective continued through the implementation though the deteriorating country
environment overshadowed the project. The sustained significance of the objective is well founded on the
approval/agreement by the Regional Vice Presidency (RVP) for retroactive extension of the project if and
when the political and security situation were to make it possible.


b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
The original design was maintained throughout the project’s life time. The design was relevant to the
Bank-led 2005 Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) and the subsequent GoNU Strategic Plan. Key sectors
and thematic areas of the JAM that were addressed by the project are: (i) institutional development and
capacity building; (ii) productive and basic social services; (iii) infrastructure and (iv) livelihood and social
protection.

 In addition, the design aligned with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) by prioritizing the following to
consolidate peace in Sudan: (i) improving governance; (ii) increasing access to basic services; and (iii)
ensuring sustainable, diversified and pro-poor growth, with primary attention to war-affected and
marginalized locations.

However, the causal chain while strategically chosen to achieve the proposed DO did not adequately
identify nor capture the limitations and challenges of working in the designated environment. While the
design sought to address the socio-economic focus in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA)
through the project components it was far too ambitious and did not adequately explain how the different
aspects would fit and work together to achieve these ends. Specifically the (i) rural development
(Component# 3); (ii) recovery of access to basic services including water (Component #2); and (iii)
healthcare (Component #4); did not really fit appropriately with the (iv) institutional development
component of the CPA by adequately explaining how the inputs would ensure local administration
support (Component #1) and the building of capacity within AAA (Component #5).

With regard to the relevance of Component # 5, it appears that establishing/strengthening the PCU as the
implementing agent was based mainly on the past experience of the Bank project- ‘Blue Nile’, that
demonstrated a strong and effective PCU can be a positive institution-building outcome for an emergency
project. While the approach is convincing, the structure of the Component was not relevant to enable
effective functioning of the PCU in the given country context. In particular, the design overlooked
implications of the dual role of Project Coordinator (PC) as the Coordinator of the PCU and the member
of the oversight committee. As a result, this arrangement sanctioned ample opportunity to heighten the
already existing governance issues and vulnerability to political capture. Secondly, while adopting the
approach, the design failed to deliberate on how the implementing responsibility was allocated under the
‘Blue Nile Project’ and its applicability within the ASEP context. Thirdly, though the design suggested that
the PCU is remotely supported by an international procurement consultant, it did not define a
modus-operandi that could be effective for such a position. Thus relevance of design is rated modest.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The PDO is “to help secure peace and recovery by contributing in equipping the Abyei locality
administrations with the resources to oversee recovery of the conflict affected region and to kick-start the
recovery and reconciliation process through the supply of basic services and rural livelihood support”.

Based on this, the project validation has been broken into two sub-components outlined below:

“ to help secure peace and recovery by contributing in equipping the Abyei locality
administrations with the resources to oversee recovery of the conflict affected region”

Negligible

Outcome: (i) Less than 10% of the beneficiaries were reached during the project without any measurable
impact being tracked or recorded. The (ii) majority of the resources procured for the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) were destroyed, except for a very low number of objects that were secured by MoFNE in a
storage unit in Khartoum. In addition, (iv) various recovery planning documents were produced and
community water resource management committees were trained with no construction or rehabilitation of
water infrastructure and thus little lasting contribution of the monies spent on this component.

Outputs
- 10 Abyei Road Map recovery plans
- 2 inter-group/ cross-political planning meetings held
- 20 area locations received 50% increase in visits by local authorities
- 20 community water resource management committees trained in water resource management
- Tangible assets acquired by PCU ( ref: foot note on page #11 ICR)

“to kick-start the recovery and reconciliation process through the supply of basic services and
rural livelihood support”

Negligible

Outcome: This was impossible to evaluate given that none of the planned activities related to supply of
basic services and/or to support rural livelihoods were undertaken. Construction and rehabilitation of
water sources throughout Abyei was stalled, works to rehabilitate major departments in Abyei Hospital
were not implemented, and activities to take forward rural development and agriculture were not carried
out except disseminating sorghum seeds. Thus there is very little contribution and little to link to the PDO.


Outputs
750 sacks of sorghum seeds disseminated


5. Efficiency:
 Economic and Financial Efficiency

Economic and financial analysis for the infrastructure sub-components related to the reconstruction of
roads and other infrastructure was not undertaken at preparation and closure. According to the Project
Appraisal Document a cost-benefit analysis was not undertaken at entry due to the scarcity of data. The
ICR confirms the negligible economic efficiency of the project by: (i) demonstrating that the project did not
carry out the majority of the planned investments and thus did not create any outcomes; and (ii) reflecting
high administrative costs totaling to US$780,931 by project end. This constitutes a 32 per cent overrun
from the initial project management allocation of US$545,000.

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency

The project experienced a steady decline in administrative efficiency starting from design and continuing
into implementation. The PCU did not ensure appropriate staff nor did it adhere to the basic planning and
reporting on procurement, or comply with good procurement practices. Key project activities in Abyei
were being managed by the project coordinator (PC) with no support from technical specialists. The PC
used the services of the procurement assistant without defined role segregation. The contract of the
Procurement Officer (PO) was not renewed. While the position of the PO was left vacant for over a year,
efforts were made to recruit an under-qualified replacement to which the Bank declined to grant a ‘no
objection’. An international consultant was assigned to remotely assist the PCU in procurement related
matters, but the implication of the role is unclear.

The efficiency of the PCU deteriorated, making it dysfunctional and in turn impeding implementation of
the planned investments. According to the monitoring agent, the PSC was non-functional and any
positive outcome of asset procurement was neutralized by the completely ineffectual and non-transparent
performance of the PCU, and subsequent dissolution of the AAA.

Overall, project efficiency is rated Negligible


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                      No
    ICR estimate                   No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   The project reflects severe shortcomings in terms of delivering planned investments and inefficiency in
economic and administrative performance. The outcome reflects issues in the design of the project,
limited achievement of the two sub-components of the DO which are rated negligible and efficiency which
is also rated negligible
 a. Outcome Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Though risk rating to development outcome at closure cannot be computed given the lack of outcome,
destruction/ theft of majority of procured assets, cancellation of the Abyei protocol, dissolution of AAA and
fragile political situation, indicate high level of risk to the meagre outcomes.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
    The project was in keeping with the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in terms of improving
basic services, consolidating peace, and maintaining stability in conflict affected areas of Sudan. The
project built on the experience of the past and ongoing emergency projects, such as the ‘Blue Nile’
and ‘South Kordofan Start-Up’. The approach was somewhat coherent in managing implementation
risks in a fragile, conflict affected environment although it was overly ambitious. It adopted a design
that did not require complex technology and appropriately chose a causal chain that would contribute
to the ongoing efforts provided by a number of development agencies such as UNICEF, IFAD, FAO
and NGOs. However, it did not outline the necessary links between the various components and it
never really explained what the capacity building efforts would result in over the short term.
Contractors for pre-effectiveness and preparation works were chosen from the roster of contractors
with hands on experience in working on the above mentioned past and ongoing projects and the
components mainly involved procurement related activities to reduce the scope of capacity building
inputs, except those under Component #5 (Project Management).

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established within the headquarters of the AAA with overall
responsibility for project management and coordination. Staffing in the PCU was planned in
accordance with the UN. The Program Steering Committee (PSC) headed by the AAA was proposed
to provide overall strategic orientation and oversight to the PCU and administer donor coordination.
This arrangement did not fully consider the scarce management and procurement capacity of the AAA
while sanctioning the PCU with the management responsibility. The dual responsibility assigned to
the project coordinator (PC) as the coordinator of the PCU and as a member of the PSC further
complicated the situation. The high vulnerability of the PCU to political capture and governance issues
appears to have been overlooked by the task team. It failed to look outside the box and based the
institutional arrangement on the ‘Blue Nile’ experience which demonstrated PCU as an
institution-building outcome of an emergency project, without strategically deliberating on the
structural arrangements of the same. This emerges as a major deficiency that was the main
instrumental cause to the overall poor performance of the project and could be interpreted as ‘set-up
failure’.

The original and revised monitoring and evaluation frameworks were not rigorous, nor were they
appropriately pragmatic in the context. While the original baseline values were based on the 2006
Household Survey, the values were set to 'zero' following the MTR. DO and IO indicators are poorly
formulated and are output oriented with no provision to evaluate outcome. The results matrix
presented in the ICR under the section # F “Results Framework Analysis” does not concur with the
revised DO and IO indicators reported in Table#1 under the section# 1.3 titled “Revised PDO”. This
creates ambiguity and concern with regards to the quality of the data and makes it hard to tell what
the intentions of the project actually were. Given these considerable limitations the quality at entry is
rated unsatisfactory.

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                   Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   In summary, Bank supervision was responsive to the needs of the project but it failed to resolve the
key implementation challenges. While there were some initial outputs in advance of disbursement
(October–November), the project did not achieve any progress during the five months following
disbursement and up until the end of the first quarter of 2010. During this quarter, project activities
continued to be only on a preparatory mode. The Bank team included technical assistance and hired
an international procurement specialist to assist the PCU. The International Procurement Specialist,
though in principle, was assigned the role to remotely assist the PCU, coordination and procurement
was handled by the PC. This arrangement and non-functioning of the PSC, not only created a clear
conflict of interest, but also denied the Bank the opportunity for close monitoring.

The Bank team had either jointly with MoFNE or separately (as did MoFNE) carried out two
implementation supervision missions (ISMs) (December 2009 and April-May 2010) as well as
numerous progress meetings and problem solving sessions with the PC, all with negligible effect.
Thus from the start of the first implementation support mission (ISM), though the Bank team utilized
revised implementation action plans for PCU/ AAA, and strengthened controls to prevent
mis-procurement and the mis-appropriation of funds, the implementing agents continued to
manipulate the procurement process. The MTR noted the “sub-optimal” performance of the project in
practically every area, and it proposed renewed action plans, project dashboards and monthly
monitoring meetings among the Bank team, PCU, and MoFNE. The Bank team was thus, not only
under pressure to resolve implementation issues, but also under pressure from some MDTF Donors
to speed up disbursement and keep the project effective. Attempts made by the task team to replace
the PCU coordinator were not successful due to political reasons to which the Bank was sensitive
according to the ICR.

Following the MTR, the AAA became more involved in trying to improve project performance by
procuring goods, the majority of which were destroyed in conflict and in mobilizing contractors who
soon abandoned the works due to the escalated insecurity. However, AAA’s intent as noted above, to
improve the project performance post MTR appears to be questionable, since it did not recruit a
full-time experienced Procurement Officer (PO), a condition which remained unmet up to December
2010. This led to the Bank not processing the extension of the project to June 30, 2012 as per the
agreement made during the MTR follow-up mission in March-April 2011. During this time, the security
of Abyei steadily deteriorated and the State was placed under Sudan Armed Forces (SAF)
administration. The project closed as scheduled on June 30, 2011 without incurring procurement,
financial management or reputational risks, with an agreement from Regional Vice Presidency (RVP)
for retroactive extension of the project if and when the political and security situation were to make it
possible. However, despite the range of efforts on the behalf of the Bank team, this project did not
appear at any time to be on track and it is difficult to see why it was not closed earlier given the limited
ability of the team to implement.
.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :           Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
    At preparation GoNU had created an enabling policy environment through coordination with the
strategic Plan of JAM, Abyei Protocol, CPA and Abyei Roadmap. During implementation MoFNE
participated in support missions and problem solving sessions jointly and independently from the Bank
team. AAA, administered Abyei which contained the PCU and was responsible for providing it with the
oversight functions. However, the decision of GoNU to dissolve the AAA on May 21, 2011 and to
cancel the Abyei Protocol placed the project on a very slippery track to failure. The National
Government voluntarily contributed US$0.400 million through MoFNE to meet ineligible expenses
identified in November 2010 towards the project closure but overall there is little evidence that the
government was working to make this project successful.


  Government Performance Rating                           Highly Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The PCU was accountable for the manipulation of the procurement process and implementation
delays. Underperformance of the PCU is reflective of how the Project Coordinator (PC) operated
ignoring Bank protocols and guidelines and the high financial management and procurement risks that
resulted from it. The PCU’s reporting throughout the project life cycle was erratic, unreliable and
missing key financial management and procurement issues. The PCU, PSC and AAA repeatedly
underperformed in their respective duties and responsibilities despite the repeated intervention of the
Bank team and MoFNE. Any gains made in addressing implementation delays (usually following the
Bank missions) were quickly lost as the PC attempted to obfuscate the procurement process and AAA
failed to perform any oversight role.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                Highly Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                   Highly Unsatisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  The Monitoring and Evaluation framework is consistent with those of the other two area projects, both
before and after alignment with Core Indicators. But the original and revised framework is predominantly
output oriented and does not provide significant focus on evaluation or measuring the impact of changes
over time. The task team’s plans for a baseline study to set baseline values for Components# 2 and #3
did not materialize due to the non-cooperation from the PCU. This led to using the 2006 Household
Survey to define the baseline values that were reset to 'zero' following the MTR. The absence of the
evaluation component in the framework emerges as a design flaw. In addition, it is also quite ambiguous
whether the Bank team recognized similar deficiencies in the M&E framework of the earlier two projects
and overlooked the lag or whether it was a complete oversight from the side of the Bank.

b. M&E Implementation:
   The Monitoring Agent (MA) reproduced concise summation of project progress toward achieving
outputs and charted implementation delays and underperformance of the PCU. The Monitoring Agent
also rated the performance of the project in financial management, counterpart funding, procurement,
administration and implementation in the broader context of the performance of the MDTF-N portfolio.
However, it appears that the limited implementation of the investments impeded the expected follow
through of the DO and IO target values. Work of the Monitoring Agent was also severely hampered by the
PCU’s lack of reporting and oversight by the AAA

c. M&E Utilization:
  The task team used reports from the Monitoring Agent and progress summaries on achievement of
PDO-KPIs and implementation challenges from standard Bank instruments (Implementation Status
Reports and Mid-Term Review reports) to take actions to rectify poor performance.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project triggered Environmental Assessment and Pest Management and developed Environmental
and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Pest Management Plan (PMP). It proposed Social
Assessments (SA) to elaborate on the social impacts of project activities outside safeguards and to clarify
the modus operand for inclusion and participation of stakeholders. However social assessments were not
carried out by the PCU. To address this gap, the Bank commissioned a Resettlement Policy Framework,
in addition to an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF). During implementation, the
Bank hired a safeguard specialiss and the project is reported to be in compliance with social and
environmental safeguards throughout its duration.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management:
Though the Bank closely controlled the flow of funds, the project had critical issues related to financial
management. Ineligible expenditure was identified in November 2010 and was settled only towards the
close of the project by voluntary contribution from the National Government for US$0.400 million through
MoFNE. The PCU costs had a 32 percent overrun three months before project closure for Component 5.
By March 31, 2011, the cost of Component #5 stood at US$726,000 compared to the total planned
budget for the duration of the project of US$545,000. The Bank team identified that “an excessive amount
of per diems” had been claimed by the PCU in contravention to the AAA-endorsed operation guidelines,
as recorded in the Project Implementation Manual without adequate explanation.
Procurement :
Procurement remained a major area of concern though the Bank successfully identified procurement
risks of the project. The PCU did not ensure appropriate staff nor did it adhere to the basic planning and
reporting on procurement, or comply with good procurement practices. The Bank team noted that the
PCU awarded “a substantial ” amount of contracts without prior Bank review, in addition to its overall
mismanagement of procurement. The PCU also did not renew the contract of the Procurement Officer
and left the position vacant for over a year, while trying to recruit an under-qualified replacement, for
which the Bank refused to grant ‘no objection’


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
NONE

d. Other:
NA


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Highly Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development High                  High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately        While the supervision team made
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    considerable efforts to turn the project
                                                                              around, there were significant
                                                                              shortcomings with regards to design
                                                                              and questions regarding whether the
                                                                              project justified the continued support
                                                                              given the very limited progress.

       Borrower Performance : Highly Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
  The ICR offers two lessons that are valued by IEG:
The approach of relying on a PCU to both implement an emergency project and be the main
channel for capacity building efforts is viable as long as strong controls are put in place to
prevent manipulation by the PCU . In the case of ASEP, the dual role of the Project Coordinator (PC)
as the coordinator of the PCU and the member of the oversight committee allowed the PC to easily
manoeuvre around any given situation, particularly related to staff capacity and procurement. The role
of the international procurement consultant is critical in emergency projects. Terms of Reference for the
international procurement consultant should be fully agreed upon prior to implementation or grant
signing as in the case of ASEP . In the event that the Bank recognizes any inappropriateness within the
organization, it is critical that the Team notify the management and seek guidance.

When replicating or founding implementation arrangements for emergency projects in conflict
situations, it is highly important to analyze the enabling and disabling factors of the
arrangements and adopt a hybrid model to suit the specific intervention . In the case of ASEP, the
Bank team considered the PCU model under the ‘Blue Nile Project’ for the implementing agent, without
fully deliberating how the implementing responsibility was allocated under the ‘Blue Nile Project’. This
was particularly critical for an extremely difficult and politically volatile situation such as in Abyei, when
project duration was limited and changing the already established structure was politically difficult.

And IEG draws one further lesson:
The Bank and the MDTF donors have to collaborate beyond disbursement of the sanctioned
Grant funds.
In the case of ASEP, some of the MDTF donors were placing pressure on the Bank to speed up
disbursement and keep the Project effective in an environment where the implementation
arrangements were failing and the project should really have been closed. As a measure to address
similar situations, it is mandatory to up-front establish mutually agreed controls for Grant disbursement
and for bringing the donors fully on board with the Bank to address politically debatable situations in the
project locale. The latter would help the Bank to stall the funding if and when politically sensitive issues
escalate beyond the Bank’s control as in ASEP, where replacing the Project Coordinator was more
than attainable.


14. Assessment Recommended?              Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The format and completeness are adequate. The ICRR reflects consistency in reporting various sections
of the ICRR and includes a satisfactory Grantee/ Borrower ICR.

Its crisp reporting of project implementation issues gives the reader a good idea of the project activities,
challenges and to what extent they were addressed. The assessment of project performance is
adequate. The section on lessons learnt is evidence based and well presented. Stakeholders are well
defined and endorse their participation in various segments of the project cycle.

However, the ICRR also had shortcomings. There is a disconnect between the DO and IO indicators
reported in the Results Framework matrix and those reported in Section #1.3 of the main text which puts
the reader in doubt with regards to the few project claims. The ICR could also be more revealing about
the limitations of the political circumstances of donor arrangements with regards to the on-going
challenges of this project.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
