Report No. PID7858
Project Name                     Philippines-Social Expenditure (@)
Management Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Project ID                       PHPE65113
Borrower                         Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agency              Department of Budget and Management (DBM)
Espinosa Building, DBM Compound
Gen. Solano Street, San Miguel, Manila
Tel: (632) 711-1107
Fax: (632) 735-4927
Date PID Prepared                April 27, 1999
Date PID Updated                 January 24, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 10, 1999
Projected Board Date             February 15, 2000
Background
1.      The share of social services in the national government's budget has
risen from about 30% in 1990 to over 40% in 1999.   At the same time, the
share of social services in local government expenditures also doubled during
this period from about 15% to 30%, in a context of increasing devolution of
social services to local governments. However, expenditure levels by sub
sector are still low compared with averages for middle income countries,
particularly for health (about 1% GDP compared to the 2.2% norm). Moreover,
the intra-sectoral allocation of resources is inefficient. The specific
issue faced in the aftermath of the financial crisis and identified in a 1998
World Bank review of social expenditures (Philippines: Social Expenditure
Priorities Report No. 18562-PH), is the insufficiency of cash to cover key
non-personnel expenditures such as textbooks, desks and teacher training.
This has exacerbated existing budget execution difficulties related to
procurement and financial management. As a result, no textbooks have been
purchased by the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS), for
example, since 1996, and in 1998, the Department of Health (DOH) managed to
spend only 25 percent of its approved budget for drugs and medicines. The
cumulative deficits have led to a serious deterioration in the quality of
basic social services.
2.      Weakness in management of the sector, and especially of procurement and
financial management, exacerbates the structural problems listed above. The
current situation of procurement management in the social sectors is
particularly worrying. The implementation of two Bank financed health
projects has been seriously delayed due to major procurement problems and
there are frequent procurement-related scandals in the DOH and DECS. At the
present time, the departments are not able, on account of the lack of
qualified staff and appropriate operating systems and procedures, to procure
efficiently and at reasonable cost. Weaknesses in financial management
systems are government-wide and have been identified in a number of studies



initiated by the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) and the Commission
on Audit (COA). Major weaknesses in the social sector departments include
the absence of a reliable, integrated and timely information system, lack of
capacity, weak internal controls and poor links between planning and
financial management functions. Communication and Information Systems for
effective management are weak at the national and regional levels. Efficient
communication systems are also critical to ensure that policies are properly
understood and implemented as responsibilities are increasingly devolved to
the periphery.
3.      The Government's Medium Term Development Plan (1999 - 2004) recognizes
the need for improvements in resource allocation, for structural reform of
policies, strategies and programs, and efficiency improvements in management
and service delivery in the social sectors. The project is a response to a
specific request from Government (in particular, the DBM), for support for
the maintenance of basic social services in a period of fiscal difficulties;
and strengthening agency capacity for financial and procurement management in
preparation for greater devolution of responsibilities to agencies for budget
management (proposed to be introduced under a Medium Term Expenditure
Framework). Specifically, the DBM and COA are collaborating in the planned
establishment of an integrated financial management system in the government,
of which the systems to be developed under the project shall be prototypes.
The new management of the social sector departments had also themselves
embarked on a process of reform of procurement and financial management
systems. The project has been designed to help develop and implement those
reforms to which the agencies have demonstrated commitment by themselves
initiating actions.
Project Objective
4.      The project objective is to support the provision of basic social
services during a period of continuing fiscal difficulties in the aftermath
of the East Asian financial crisis, while introducing significant
improvements to public expenditure management in the social sector - in
particular, DECS and the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
Project Description
5.      The project has two components:   Component I, the Protection of Basic
Social Services comprises selected on-going programs in the education and
social welfare departments for the provision of basic social services largely
benefiting the poor. These include (A) the provision of key inputs for
improving the quality of basic education (US$ 80.2 million) including: (i)
textbooks and teacher's manuals; (ii) construction and repair and maintenance
of existing elementary and secondary schools; (iii) desks and chairs and (iv)
teacher training; and (B) social assistance for disadvantaged groups (US$
25.01 million) including (i) the Comprehensive Integrated Delivery of Social
Services (CIDSS), for the provision of the minimum basic needs through a
demand-driven approach targeted at the poorest municipalities; (ii) the
maintenance and operation of centers and institutions including orphanages
and centers for the handicapped; and (iii) assistance program for distressed
and disadvantaged populations including special programs for squatters,
street children, rape victims, etc.
6.      Out of the proposed loan, the Borrower has proposed disbursement of up
-2 -



to $20 million (about 20t of the loan amount) for expenses incurred after
February 1, 1999. Retroactive financing has been proposed to finance
budgeted social expenditures which had to be sustained and implemented as
scheduled in the aftermath of the crisis.
7.      Component II, for Strengthening Management Capacity and Systems in the
Social Sectors (US$ 1.5 million) provides an integrated technical assistance
(TA) package to strengthen financial management, procurement and information
communication systems, by developing and installing appropriate systems and
providing on-the-job learning and training for concerned staff.
Specifically, with respect to the reform of procurement systems, the TA will
review existing systems and processes for procurement and identify ways of
improving their efficiency and transparency; review the organization and
capacity of staff and identify the learning/training required to ensure that
procurement skills are upgraded and maintained. Departments will also be
required to: (i) strengthen logistics management and inventory control
procedures including using the services of independent groups composed of
representatives from non-governmental organizations and civic organizations;
(ii) reduce steps and lead-times in the procurement process; and (iii)
develop and adopt standard procurement manuals embodying principles of
efficiency and transparency.    With respect to reform of budget execution and
financial management under a Financial Management (FM) Improvement Program,
the project will seek to achieve the following : a) a simplified and timely
budget monitoring and reporting system; b) improved financial programming,
prioritization and cash flow forecasting; c) computerized payroll management;
d) an effective assets and inventory management system; e) strong internal
controls and f) greater cohesion between planning, budgeting and program
management.    It will expedite the on-going budget execution computerization.
Financing
8.      A Social Expenditure Management Project (SEMP) is proposed for an
amount of $100 million. The project will retroactively finance expenditures
incurred since February 1, 1999 for up to 209 of project costs.
Benefits and Risks
9.      Benefits.  The main benefits of the project are two-fold:    first, a
quantum increase in the provision of key inputs designed to improve the
quality and effectiveness of basic social services. Specifically, the
project will result in the following:
- the construction of about 900 classrooms, and repair and maintenance at
26,000 sites; the distribution of 25 million textbooks, 450,000 desks
and chairs, and the training of about 5,000 teachers. It is expected that
there will be a 10t reduction in the dropout rate in the 2000-2001 school
year.
- the provision of basic social services in 1,000 poorest municipalities in
the country, the maintenance and operation of about 50 centers for
disadvantaged populations and assistance to victims of disasters and
natural calamities expected to reach 1 million beneficiaries.
- Significant benefits will accrue from the strengthening of procurement and
financial management systems. Recent procurement of textbooks using Bank
procedures, for example, has resulted in better quality textbooks at a
savings of 40t of DECS negotiated prices for past procurement.    Cost
-3 -



effectiveness is expected to increase significantly as departments improve
the management of cash and assets, financial reporting, internal controls
and inventory management.
10.     Risks.  The main risks are as follows: (1) lack of capacity of
implementing agencies to carry out the expenditure reform program and
implement programs in a timely and efficient manner; (2) political
instability which could result in changes in departmental leadership, putting
the proposed reforms at risk; and (3) resistance to the proposed expenditure
reform program as they affect certain vested interests outside and inside the
government.
To minimize these risks, an appropriate input of technical assistance,
including of change management, has been provided to strengthen
implementation capacity; appropriate implementation covenants have been
obtained; and preparation for project implementation is well advanced.
Project implementation oversight from DBM is expected to be intensive, as was
the case throughout the project preparation phase; due to the fact that the
project-initiated reforms are seen as pilot initiatives that will later be
carried out in other key departments. Further the field-based project team
is engaged in intensive dialogue with the Borrower.
Poverty Category
11.     Program of targeted intervention
Environmental Aspects
12.     In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed program has been placed in
Category "C" and will not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone        (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 522-1500
Ms. Jayshree Balachander
The World Bank Resident Mission in the Philippines
23/F, Taipan Place
Emerald Avenue, Ortigas Center
Pasig City, Philippines
Telephone        (632) 637-5855
Fax              (632) 637-5870
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 18, 2000.
Additional financing for this component will be available from the MIS components of the
Bank financed Third Elementary Education and Early Childhood Development Projects.
- 5 -



