Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19799-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR
SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
January 24, 2000
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUlIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (P)
PHP= US$ 0.024
US$ 1 = P40.858
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APIS                        Annual Poverty Indicators Survey
BEATS                       Budget Expenditure & Accountability Tracking System
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CBIMS                       Community-Based Information & Monitoring System
CHED                        Commission on Higher Education
CIDSS                       Comprehensive & Integrated Delivery of Social Services
COA                         Commission on Audit
DBM                         Department of Budget & Management
DECS                        Department of Education, Culture & Sports
DOH                         Department of Health
DSWD                        Department of Social Welfare & Development
FIES                        Famnily Income & Expenditure Survey
FMIP                        Financial Management Improvement Program
GOP                         Government of the Philippines
LGU                         Local Government Unit
MOOE                        Maintenance & Other Operating Expenditure
MTPDP                       Medium-Term Philippines Development Plan
NCR                         National Capital Region
NEAP                        National Education Academy of the Philippines
PBAC                        Prequalification Bids & Awards Commnittee
PBDT                        Procurement Benchmark & Disbursement Target
PEAC                        Prequalification Evaluation & Awards Commnittee
PESS                        Philippines Education Sector Study
PIP                         Project Implementation Plan
PMO                         Project Management Office
PSEP                        Philippine Social Expenditure Priorities
SSD                         Social Sector Department
TA                          Technical Assistance
USAID                       United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director:   Vinay Bhargava
Sector Manager/Director:    Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jayshree Balachander



SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          12
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Social                                                                             13
6. Environmental assessment                                                           14
7. Participatory approach                                                             14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     14
2. Critical risks                                                                     15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     15



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            16
2. Other                                                                              16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          18
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         25
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           26
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       32
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     41
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   42
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  43
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            45



PHILIPPINES
SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EACPF
Date: January 24, 2000                             Team Leader: Jayshree Balachander
Country Manager/Director: Vinay K. Bhargava        Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Project ID: P065113                                Sector(s): SY - Other Social Sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
E Loan          O Credit        El Grant        El Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Othem:
Amount (US$m): 100.00
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 3/4 of 1%                              Service charge: 1.00%
Frlnq  an,                                               _A______
Government                                                      7.22            0.00          7.22
IBRD                                                           80.00           20.00         100.00
IDA
OTHER                                                           0.50            0.00          0.50
Total:                                                         87.72           20.00         107.72
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT (DBM)
Department of Budget and Management (DBM)
Address: Espinosa Building, Gen. Solano St., San Miguel, Manila
Contact Person: Assistant Secretary Laura B. Pascua
Tel: (63-2) 735-4934                Fax: (63-2) 735-4961               Email: lbpascuagdbm.gov.ph
Other Agency(ies):
Department of Education, Culture & Sports (DECS)
Address: Rizal Building 1, University of Life Complex, Meralco Avenue, Pasig City
Contact Person: Undersecretary Antonio Valdes
Tel: (63-2) 633-9342              Fax: (63-2) 633-9342               Email:
Department of Social Welfare & Development (DSWD)
Address: Batasan Pambansa Complex, Constitution Hills, Quezon City
Contact Person: Undersecretary Belinda Manahan
Tel: (63-2) 931-9147              Fax: (63-2) 931-9146               Email:



Estimated disbursements I Bank FY/US$M:
Annual    41.0         58.0         1.0
Cumulative    41.0        99.0        100.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2002
Expected effectiveness date: 02/28/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2002
XS PAD Porm Odober 9, I9J
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project objective is to support the provision of basic social services during a period of
continuing fiscal difficulties in the aftermath of the East Asian financial crisis, while introducing significant
improvements to public expenditure management in the social sector - in particular, the Departments of
Education (DECS) and Social Welfare (DSWD) - with oversight by the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM).
The government of the Philippines allocates a sizeable portion of the budget for the social sector
(43.5% in 1999), but expenditure levels are below those in countries with comparable income. Moreover,
as personnel expenditures account for the lion's share of public social expenditures, the projected budget
deficit (about 17 percent of revenues and 3% of GDP for 1999), is likely to have a disproportionate impact
on non-personnel services categories in the budget. Since 1996, as a result of cash constraints and
procurement difficulties, the social sector departments have been unable to fully execute even the
inadequate provisions in their budgets for non-personnel items. For example, no textbooks have been
procured under this education budget item since 1996. There is therefore a considerable backlog and an
urgent need to de-bottleneck the provision of basic inputs for social services primarily utilized by the poor.
Simultaneously, the project seeks to strengthen fiscal discipline and enhance service delivery by
supporting agency-led reforms of procurement, financial and information communication systems. Weak
management, and in particular, complicated and inefficient procurement procedures and weak financial
monitoring have resulted in poor sector performance, including of World Bank-funded projects.
Procurement by the agencies are ridden with allegations of graft and have been evaluated to be grossly
inefficient. Records showing the distribution and utilization of items received are not properly maintained.
Weak financial management, the lack of an integrated financial management system and inadequate
financial reporting in the agencies has resulted in poor budget execution and management of cash. This has
been further exacerbated by weak communication links between the central and regional offices. The
current fiscal difficulties make it all the more necessary to address these long-standing problems.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key sectoral impact indicators for the project are the following:
*   a 5% increase in the elementary school cohort survival rate from 65 to 68
*   improvements in 5 minimum basic needs indicators in barangays assisted under the project
*   an overall improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of projects financed procurement in DECS
by 30% (cost of items procured, quality, timeliness, and delivery to end users)
*   timely and reliable financial reporting
Key output indicators are as follows:
Quantum increase in the provision of key non-personnel inputs to social sector programs including:
*   900 classrooms constructed
*   5,000 teachers trained
*   26,000 school buildings repaired
*   25 million textbooks distributed
-3 -



*   450,000 desks and chairs distributed
* basic social services in 1,000 poorest municipalities in the country through 3,000 projects for 300,000
beneficiary families provided
* 150 residential and community-based centers for facilities operated
* I million persons belonging to disadvantaged and distressed populations assisted
Public expenditure management in DECS and DSWD improved including:
*   department-wide adoption of improved procurement practices
*   operation of a simplified and improved financial management system
*   establishment of an effective information and communications network between the central and
regional offices
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-55(IFC/R99-46)                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/04/99
The 1999 CAS for the Philippines was discussed by the Board in May 1999. A specific objective
of the CAS is to enhance human development and social services for the poor. The CAS identifies the
Social Expenditure Management Project as the key instrument both for protecting basic social services
during the period of budgetary constraints and for improving public expenditure management in the social
sector. By funding priority programs targeted to the poor and key non-personnel inputs intended to
improve the quality of basic social services, the project will support the overall CAS objective of restoring
stronger growth with greater equity and poverty reduction. The project will also specifically support the
achievement of the CAS social development targets for primary school completion and minimum basic
needs.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Public Social Expenditure. The share of social services in the GOP national budget has risen from
about 30% in 1990 to over 40% in 1999. At the same time, the share of social services in local govermnent
expenditures also doubled during this period from about 15% to 30% in a context of increasing devolution
of social services to local governments. However, levels by subsector are still low compared with averages
for middle income countries, particularly for health, (about 1% GDP compared to the 2.2% norm).
Moreover, intra-sectoral allocation of resources is inefficient. For example, in education, increasing shares
have been going to higher education and an overwhelming proportion (about 90%) is devoted to personnel
services. Sixty percent of the national health budget is devoted to tertiary hospitals. The specific issue
faced in the aftermath ofthe financial crisis and identified in a 1998 social expenditure review Philippines
Social Expenditure Priorities (Report No. 18562 PH, PSEP) is the insufficiency of cash to cover key
non-personnel expenditures such as textbooks, desks and teacher training. This has exacerbated existing
budget execution difficulties related to procurement and financial management. As a result, no textbooks
have been purchased by DECS, for example, since 1996, and in 1998, the DOH managed to spend only 25
percent of its approved budget for drugs and medicines. The cumulative deficits have led to a serious
deterioration in the quality of basic social services.
(b) Eui   There are significant differences in the regional distribution of available public resources and
consequently of outcomes. In basic education, better regional distribution of public resources is a priority;
at the secondary and tertiary levels, the priority is to have better programs of targeted subsidies. In health,
large regional and income class differentials exist for key indicators. The financing of personal health care
-4 -



relies heavily on out-of-pocket spending which is highly detrimental to the poor. At present there is no
coherent strategy for actively targeting public resources to the most disadvantaged areas of the country.
(c) Qualitv and Efficiency. The low quality achieved in the public sector in education, despite high unit
costs is an important issue that must be addressed. Inefficient procurement is an important reason for the
high costs of service delivery. Improving teacher effectiveness and deploying teachers more efficiently,
improving student learning by providing textbooks and rationalizing the curriculum and language of
instruction have been recommended in a 1999 education sector review, the Philippines Education Sector
Study (PESS). With respect to post-basic education, there is a need to slow down and reverse the
haphazard expansion of low quality State Universities and Colleges (SUCs). The overall management of
the system rests with the Commission on Higher Education Development (CHED) which, however does not
at this time possess the authority, resources or expertise to perform its functions effectively. In health, the
poor absorptive capacity of the DOH to utilize appropriated and donor funding, and inordinate delays and
inefficiencies in procurement have resulted in low quality of services in the public system and chronic
shortages of essential drugs (e.g., for TB).
(d) Decentralization. Current budgeting and management arrangements for education, with DECS
retaining a good deal of control at the central level, have thwarted efforts to enhance local control and local
accountability over basic education. The delivery of health services was devolved to local governments in
1991 . However DOH has been unable to effectively re-engineer itself to meet its mandate as a
policy-setting, supporting, monitoring and regulatory agency of devolved health services. Meanwhile,
inherent and inherited problems of devolution remain unresolved - e.g. fragmentation of technical
supervision and the health personmel system, and a capital investment and maintenance backlog. The
DSWD has devolved services to local governments effectively, but needs to strengthen reporting and
communication systems with the periphery.
(e). Public Expenditure Management. Weakness in management of the sector, and especially of
procurement and financial management, exacerbates the structural problems listed above.
The current situation of procurement management in the social sectors is particularly serious.
The implementation of Bank financed health projects has been delayed due to major procurement problems
and there are frequent procurement-related scandals in DOH and DECS. At the present time, the
departments are not able, on account of the lack of qualified staff and appropriate operating systems and
procedures, to procure efficiently and at reasonable cost.
Weaknesses infinancial management systems are government-wide and have been identified in
a number of studies initiated by the DBM and Commission on Audit (COA). Major weaknesses in the
social sector departments include the absence of a reliable, integrated and timely information system, lack
of capacity, weak internal controls and poor links between planning and financial management functions.
Communication and Information Systems for effective management are weak at the national and
regional levels. There is an urgent need to establish communication systems for improved financial and
procurement management, both at the center and decentralized levels. Efficient communication systems
are also critical to ensure that policies are properly understood and implemented as responsibilities are
increasingly devolved to the periphery.
Government Strategy. The Government's Medium Term Development Plan (1999 - 2004)
recognizes the need for improvements in resource allocation, for structural reform of policies, strategies and
programs, and efficiency improvements in management and service delivery in the social sectors. It
- 5 -



proposes to sustain and accelerate the current DECS strategy to decentralize education management,
empower field level managers and increase the participation of other local stakeholders, in particular, Local
School Boards. In higher education, it seeks to improve governance by accelerating structural reforms at
the CHED. The Govermnent's priorities for the health sector are to secure adequate funding for public
health programs; strengthen the capacity of DOH regulatory agencies; support the formation and effective
performance of devolved health service networks; provide fiscal autonomy to public hospitals and expand
the coverage and benefits of the national health insurance program. The DOH is currently undertaking an
organizational reform towards deconcentration and streamlining of the central office. To enhance the
effectiveness of social welfare services, the DSWD will strengthen services provided by the department,
and LGU and NGO capacity to deliver social services.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Although the potential sectoral reform agenda is broad, the Bank and the GOP agreed that focusing
on a small set of priority actions for which there was a high level of agency commitment was likely to yield
the best results. In view of the on-going re-organization of DOH, the agency was not included in the
project. If successful, the operation could be repeated, with a second batch of sectoral reforms and
including DOH. The project will therefore address two major sector issues in two of the social sector
departments - DECS and DSWD: (i) lack of adequate resources for basic services, in particular, for
non-personnel expenditures, and (ii) weak public expenditure management.
The assurance of adequate and timely funding of basic social services heavily utilized by the poor
and for key inputs such as textbooks, was identified in the PSEP as the top priority in the aftermath of the
financial crisis which has resulted in the rationing of cash to levels below the spending authority of
departments since the last quarter of 1997. The efficient utilization of available resources was a second
priority. A series of procurement related scandals in government agencies has prompted the new
government to seek to overhaul current procurement systems and procedures. Bank assistance in this
regard is therefore timely from the government's point of view, besides having a high priority under the
country portfolio performance improvement plan. The development of systems and capacity for budget
execution at the agency level has been identified by the DBM as an area for priority action in its effort to
improve overall public expenditure management, and move towards a Medium Term Expenditure
Framework, devolving greater responsibility to the agencies to manage for performance.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has two components: Component I comprises selected on-going programs in the
education and social welfare departments of the GOP for the provision of basic social services largely
benefiting the poor. Out of the proposed loan, the Borrower has proposed disbursement of up to $20
million (about 20% of the loan amount) for expenses incurred after February 1, 1999. Retroactive
financing has been proposed to finance budgeted social expenditures which had to be sustained and
implemented as scheduled in the aftermath of the crisis. Component II is designed to strengthen public
expenditure management of the agencies including procurement, financial management and information
communication systems.
I. Protection of Basic Social Services
A. Basic Education: Provision of key inputs for irnproving the quality of basic education including: (a)
- 6 -



textbooks and teacher's manuals; (b) construction and repair and maintenance of classrooms; (c) desks and
chairs and (d) teacher training.
B. Social Assistance for Disadvantaged Groups: (a) The Comprehensive Integrated Delivery of Social
Services (CIDSS), for the implementation of the rninimum basic needs through a demand-driven approach
targeted at the poorest municipalities; (b) the Maintenance and Operation of Centers and Institutions
including orphanages and centers for the handicapped; and (c) Assistance Program for Distressed and
Disadvantaged Populations including special programs for squatters, street children, rape victims, etc.
I1. Strengthening Management Capacity and Systems in the Social Sectors
An integrated technical assistance package to strengthen financial management, procurement and
information communication systems, by developing and installing appropriate systems and providing
on-the-job learning and training for concerned staff.
- . .. -  ..  ;   :IrnicatIEvek-:  -%'of
EComponent                  Sedor          costs!    % of    inancing.  Bank-
.________________________ -___.__.___.             {U$$MI     Total   I_11 t        ancing
I. Protection of Basic Social Services                              0.0                  0.0
A. Basic Education                  Primary            80.21       74.5      76.00      76.0
Education
B. Social Assistance for Disadvantaged  Social Funds &  25.01      23.2      22.00      22.0
Groups                              Social Assistance
II. Strengthening Management        Public Financial    1.50        1.4       1.00       1.0
Capacity and Systems in the Social  Management
Sectors*
Front-end Fee                                           1.00        0.9       1.00       1.0
Total Project Costs  _                107.72      100.0    100.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   107.72      100.0    100.00       100.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*Includes a Japanese special PHRD grant for $500,000. This component will also be implemented through the institutional capacity
building funds of two on-going Bank-financed projects - the Third Elementary Education Project and the Early
Childhood Development Project.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will develop and install appropriate procurement, financial management and
information communication systems in the agencies, including appropriate reorganization of structures and
processes.
Specifically, with respect to the reform of procurement systems, each agency will be required to
obtain technical assistance to review existing systems and processes for procurement and identify ways of
improving their efficiency and transparency; also to review the organization and capacity of staff and
identify the learning/training required to ensure that procurement skills are upgraded and maintained.
Departments will also be required to: (i) strengthen logistics management and inventory control
procedures including using the services of independent groups composed of representatives from
non-governmental organizations and civic organization; (ii) reduce steps and lead-times in the
procurement process; and (iii) develop and adopt standard procurement manuals embodying principles of
efficiency and transparency.
-7-.



With respect to reform of budget execution and financial management under a Financial
Management (FM) Improvement Program, the project will seek to achieve the following: a) a simplified
and timely budget monitoring and reporting system; b) improved financial programming, prioritization and
cash flow forecasting; c) computerized payroll management; d) an effective assets and inventory
management system; e) strong internal controls and f) greater cohesion between planning, budgeting and
program management. It will expedite the on-going budget execution computerization.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project are two-fold: first, a quantum increase in the provision of key
inputs designed to improve the quality and effectiveness of basic social services. Specifically, the project
will result in the following:
*   the construction of about 900 classrooms, and repair and maintenance at 26,000 sites; the distribution
of 25 million textbooks and 450,000 desks and chairs; and the training of about 5,000 teachers. It is
expected that there will be a 10% reduction in the dropout rate in the 2000-2001 school year.
*   the provision of basic social services in 1,000 of the poorest municipalities in the country, the
maintenance and operation of about 50 centers for disadvantaged populations and assistance to victims
of disasters and natural calamities expected to reach I million beneficiaries.
Significant benefits will accrue from the strengthening of procurement and financial management
systems. Recent procurement of textbooks using Bank procedures, for example, has resulted in better
quality textbooks at a savings of 40% of DECS negotiated prices for past procurement. Cost effectiveness
is expected to increase significantly as departments improve the management of cash and assets, financial
reporting, internal controls and inventory management. The primary beneficiaries of the project are
disadvantaged groups who depend on publicly provided social services such as basic education and social
welfare programs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management. The project will be implemented for a period of about 3 years, from February
2000 to December 31, 2002. Overall responsibility for the project will be vested in the lead agency, the
Department of Budget and Management (DBM) in collaboration with the Conmmission on Audit (COA).
The central and regional offices of the implementing line agencies (IAs) DECS and DSWD will be
responsible for the implementation of their specific components.
An Inter-agency Steering Committee will provide overall strategic direction for the project, review
project progress and solve any inter-agency issues or problems that may arise. In each of the departments,
an Agency Steering Committee chaired by the concemed Undersecretary and including the Assistant
Secretaries/Directors of Finance, Procurement and Information Systems as well as relevant program
managers, will provide strategic direction for the project, review progress and solve any problems that may
arise during implementation.
Project Management Offices (PMOs) have been established within each agency. These units,
which will coordinate all project activities, are headed by a full time manager who will report to the
Undersecretary for Finance of each respective IA. Each of the three PMOs will: (i) support and facilitate
the expeditious implementation of each component within their department in conformity with agreed
procurement procedures; (ii) establish an efficient reporting system and monitor project implementation as
agreed with DBM; (iii) review and validate payment requests from implementing units and preparing
-8 -



statements of expenditure; (iv) ensure that agreed conditionality benchmarks are met. Each of the PMOs
will be staffed by a core group of agency personnel for finance, procurement and monitoring and national
consultants as necessary.
Each of the lAs will also establish regional project management groups (RPMGs) comprising
financial management, procurement personnel and the concerned regional directors. The regional groups
will be responsible for: (i) coordinating and monitoring procurement emanating from their regions; (ii)
monitoring delivery of goods and services emanating from procurement within their regions and from the
national level; (iii) providing project status reports to the IA PMO as required; (iv) undertaking monitoring
and evaluation within their respective regions; and (v) preparing SOEs relating to regional expenditure.
Financial Management. A financial management assessment was carried out in the three
departments to develop the FM Improvement Program under component 2. The assessment revealed major
weaknesses in the areas of FM organization, linkages between planning, budgeting and programs, financial
programming and cash management, budget execution reporting, assets and inventory management and
internal controls. Terms of reference have been prepared for hands-on technical assistance to help develop
and establish the FM Improvement Program. The TA will include the development of simplified PMRs
for project monitoring purposes within six months of TA effectiveness. Disbursement will be against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Annual audit reports will be provided by the COA.
Project Monitoring. Project components will be monitored at the level of the implementing agencies
by program and collated and reviewed in formats prepared by DBM, consistent with the PMR
requirements. In addition, the project will pilot two additional strategies for monitoring project inputs: a)
community-based monitoring system and b) participatory audits involving the private sector. The
Community Based Information and Monitoring System (CBIMS) aims to provide a community level
perspective of public social services, including tracking their impacts from the perspective of the
beneficiaries. It will focus on disadvantaged communities, involve simplified data collection and use
monitoring approaches and structures already in use under the Minimum Basic Needs (MBN) survey.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A review of Bank support in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis presented the following
alternatives: a) a social protection investment project; b) a social sector adjustment loan, c) a social fund.
The first alternative was rejected because new social sector investment projects in the Philippines require a
long start-up phase and would not address the urgent need for protecting basic social services. Moreover,
it would not address the main bottlenecks identified by the PSEP which were the lack of cash to finance
non-personmel expenditures and weak procurement and financial management capacity to implement
on-going programs. An adjustment loan was rejected because the agencies were assessed to be too weak to
effectively implement a large sector reform program. The agencies had themselves rejected ambitious
sector-wide reform plans in favor of focused, time-bound actions to improve sector management that would
address the urgent need for the efficient implementation of on-going social sector programs. Social funds
were not considered because they could not meet the need to protect on-going basic social services in the
short term.
9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
ty SecXtor mssue                          P#Set                   (PSR)~  *Rain;s
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
(Jointly with ADB). Improve the   Early Childhood Development       U             S
quality and coverage of early childhood
development services in 3 regions with
worst ECD indicators
(Jointly with OECF); Improve access  Third Elementary Education     S            U
and quality of education in 26 poorest  Project
provinces.
(Jointly with ADB, AusAid and other  Women's Health and Safe        S             S
donors); Improve the delivery of  Motherhood Project
women's health services
Improve quality and access to primary  Urban Health and Nutrition   S             S
health care for urban poor communities Project
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank             Secondary Education
Improvement
Non-FormalEducationProject
Integrated Community Health
Services Project
Mindanao Basic Education
Project
USAID (Governance, including      Accelerating Growth,
procurement and financial management Investment and Liberalization
reform)                           with Equity (AGILE)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project addresses the primary lessons learned from a review of the social sector portfolio in the
Philippines that management capacity of the agencies has to be improved, particularly with regard to
procurement and financial management and that project design should be kept simple. Lessons from Bank
projects in other crisis countries included in the project are: (i) focusing on selected, established programs
of government for basic services facilitates effective implementation and Bank supervision; (ii)
implementation readiness can be improved by upstream agreement and actions on procurement and
financial management; (iii) high standards of accountability and transparency must be maintained to assure
good governance; (iv) institutional capacity of implementing agencies need strengthening; and (v) good
monitoring and evaluation systems need to be established so that timely corrective action can be taken to
improve project effectiveness.
- 10-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project is a response to a specific request from Government (in particular, the DBM), for
support for the maintenance of basic social services in a period of fiscal difficulties; and strengthening
departmental capacity for public expenditure management in preparation for greater devolution of budget
responsibilities to agencies. Specifically, the DBM and COA are collaborating in the planned
establishment of an integrated financial management system in the GOP, of which the systems to be
developed under the project shall be prototypes. The new management of the social sector departments had
also themselves embarked on a process of reform of procurement and financial management systems. The
project has been designed to be help develop and implement those reforms to which the agencies have
demonstrated commitment by themselves initiating actions. DECS has, for instance, agreed to use ICB
procedures for the purchase of textbooks and NCB procedures for civil works in the face of stiff opposition
from local vested interests. The DSWD has prepared SOEs for $18 million towards retroactive financing
and has implemented some recommendations from project preparation studies to strengthen expenditure
management, including a procurement training for its staff at the Asian Institute of Management.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support will add value in several ways: (i) it will ensure the timely availability of cash for
some of the most important investments in the social sectors in the Philippines; (ii) the Bank will bring
international experience and necessary resources to bear and in particular for the strengthening of financial,
procurement and information systems; (iii) international standards of transparency and accountability in
the use of resources will result from the Bank's participation; (iv) Bank involvement will ensure high
standards of monitoring and evaluation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project is designed to de-bottleneck the backlog in the provision of key social sector inputs,
providing benefits that are long overdue to poor sections of the population dependent on publicly provided
social services. An assessment of the nature of the goods fnanced, the prevailing market conditions, and
the proposed reform of the intemal management of relevant departments was undertaken and warrants
confidence in the ability of the loan to improve the welfare of poor Filipinos. A benefit incidence study,
which is the most appropriate tool, is being undertaken as part of the poverty assessment based on the
Annual Poverty Indicators Survey (APIS) recently concluded with Bank assistance and will shed more light
on the degree to which project benefits will accrue directly to the poor.
An appropriate response to the large shocks that have hit the economy over the last 2 to 3 years is
for households to smooth consumption by borrowing against future income streams. Because the shock has
been economy-wide, it is natural to use extemal funds to fmance this consumption smoothing, but private
capital markets are unlikely to deliver such financial resources directly to households. The efficiency
effects of consumption smoothing are significantly augmented when the resources are used to forestall
otherwise irreversible deterioration in human capital, associated with withdrawal of children from school,
and general poverty. There is thus a clear alignment of efficiency effects and desirable equity outcomes.
Apart from the overall economic rationale for the project, specific project interventions meet
efficiency and equity criteria. The targeting properties of the interventions are pro-poor. The activities of
- 11 -



the DSWD, including those financed under the loan are essentially redistributive in nature, and are unlikely
to be offset in alternative private transfers.
The envisioned improvements in welfare associated with expanded public involvement in the social
sectors will be all the greater if the efficiency of delivery of these services is increased. The financial
management and procurement reforms financed by the loan aim to do exactly this. In principle, such
reforms can have very large internal rates of return, as the resource costs associated with altering
management structures and incentives are relatively modest. Based on bid prices for goods begun to be
procured under the project, savings on project related procurement alone, would for example, result in a
return of over 66 percent. On the other hand, the success of the long term procurement and financial
reforms depends crucially on the willingness of senior civil servants to embrace the proposals, and to
induce compliance amongst staff. These additional non-financial requirements for successful reform mean
that while the economic return can be enormous, it is subject to a high level of uncertainty.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
The project overall does not lend itself to the calculation of precise financial rates of return.
However, an indication of the large expected financial rates of return can be obtained by calculating only
the likely savings from project related procurement. Based on recent bidding for textbooks following Bank
procedures, compared to prices paid by GOP for these items in the past, the effect of Bank procedures is to
reduce prices by 40%, thus increasing the quantity of real resources purchasable by 67% (1/(1-0.4) =
1.67). This two thirds increase in supply amounts to US$ 29.50 million, yielding a return of 27% on the
project loan of US$ 100 million, without considering the financial benefits attributable to the other
components or indeed any other procurement under the project. Moreover, if procurement reform is
institutionalized, the stream of benefits will not only continue indefinitely, but could apply to the entire
budget of the departments and not only the items financed under the loan.
Fiscal Impact:
As the project will finance appropriated budget expenditures, it will have no additional fiscal
impact. On the other hand, the project will relieve the constraints on cash for priority social programs and
will partly finance the projected 1999 budget deficit of about P 100 billion ($2.5 billion).
3. Technical:
In the case of education, well-established national norms will be used for school building
construction and textbooks. The use of Bank procurement guidelines ensures that appropriate and
cost-effective technologies are adopted in other cases - e.g. desks and chairs. Line agency technical norms
will be used for DSWD programs. Inputs are consistent in scale, quality, quantity and cost with the
proposed activities of the project and implementation is technically feasible.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The DSWD is one of the most progressive of Government agencies and one of the best managed.
It is open and actively seeks innovations that will improve its operations, piloting, for example, both the
COA's computerized procurement system and the DBM's Budget Expenditures and Accountability
Tracking System (BEATS). It repositioned itself after the devolution of the delivery of social services to
local governments (in EO #15 dated August 20, 1998) and is undergoing a rationalizing and streamlining
plan which will operationalize the changes in structure, roles, functions, organizational processes,
technology and structure. It was the first agency to avail the procurement/management training by the
Asian Institute of Management offered to the departments under a Special PHRI) Grant obtained to
- 12 -



support the project. The prospects of full implementation of the proposed expenditure improvement
program in this agency are very good.
DECS is one of the largest government agencies and management capacity, especially at the middle
levels, is weak. Although the role of management is critical given the magnitude of its operations,
development support to the agency has, in the past, focused on the provision of educational inputs, and to
some extent, on capacity building for policy development. The new management is committed to
maximizing scarce budgetary resources for basic educational inputs such as textbooks and school buildings
by improving efficiency and reducing corruption. To this end, a number of procurement related reforms
have already been initiated and drastic changes in current procedures will be made by adopting Bank
procedures for the procurement of items financed under the project. Strengthening management capacity
and in particular financial management, also figure high on the agency's agenda. However, the capacity of
the agency to institutionalize current reform efforts and implement the additional changes required is yet to
be tested.
b. Project management:
The project's management structure is already mostly in place and the personnel assigned to the
project have the necessary capacity to deliver results. The project will be coordinated by the DBM, which
has already demonstrated the necessary leadership and capacity in encouraging the agencies to participate
in the project and commit to serious reform. Undersecretaries of the agencies have been actively involved in
project preparation and departmental orders creating counterpart PMOs have been issued. The agencies
are also committed to replicating arrangements at the regional level and building necessary capacity.
5. Social:
The financial crisis, combined with El Nino and La Nina, has affected Filipino society adversely
through rising unemployment, lower incomes, and higher prices, making it difficult for the poor and
vulnerable groups to access basic health care, education and social services. Although the Government had
planned a range of social sector programs, there were significant shortfalls in the implementation of these
programs since 1997 due to budget constraints.
A social assessment was carried out in mid 1999 through stakeholder workshops, participatory
field consultations, key informant interviews with donors, government staff and civil society, and a review
of secondary materials, including accomplishment reports of line agencies and independent impacts
evaluations. These have revealed that poor and vulnerable groups are greatly dependent on public social
services such as those being supported by the project and that the need far exceeds what the government
has been able to provide. For example, between 1986 and 1994, the household's share in education
expenses at the elementary level increased by 30% and at the secondary level by 42%, straining poor
households and causing reductions in enrollment. Teachers have resisted being deployed in remote schools
primarily because of limited facilities and lack of incentives. Hardly any teaching materials have been
supplied in schools in the last two to three years, and poor children are the most adversely affected as a
result. Poverty forces some families to send children to school without breakfast. Absenteeism is common
among children from poor families as a result of having to care for siblings or help parents at home or on
the farm. These problems have been exacerbated as a result of the crisis as parents have transferred
children from private to public school.
- 13-



6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: C
The project is expected to have negligible environmental impact.
Resettlement. As the project entails no infrastructure construction besides the expansion of classrooms
belonging to existing schools, there will be no resettlement. DSWD's programs related to the provision of
minimum basic needs are for very small works such as filling of potholes in access roads, not exceeding an
amount of about $4,000, so land acquisition will not be an issue. Besides, all activities under CIDSS are
designed and implemented by the beneficiaries themselves. Both agencies have certified to the Bank in
writing that the programs fnanced under the project will not involve resettlement.
Indigenous People. The implementation of project programs will be carried out in compliance with the
stipulations of the Philippine legislation on Indigenous People, in particular the Indigenous People Rights
Act of 1997 which defines a framework compatible with WB OD 4.20, and are expected to have beneficial
effects on Indigenous People.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries of the budgetary programs selected for funding under the project are low
income families availing of public social services such as elementary education and social welfare
programs of the government. These families appear to be relying more heavily than ever on public
services as a result of the financial and weather-related crises. They cited the need to improve the quality
and service orientation of government programs, as well as monitoring of inputs supplied under these
programs. A community-based information and monitoring system (CBIMS) has been developed as a result
and will be piloted under the project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The DBM and line agencies involved in implementing the project have fully participated in its
development, from the concerned Secretaries to project staff, and have made key decisions regarding items
to be financed under the project, adopting Bank procurement guidelines and defining the technical
assistance to be provided under the project. NGOs and agency personnel such as teachers and frontline
health and social welfare personnel were consulted during the social assessment.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will fnance programs regularly covered by budgetary allocations and hence the
maintenance and operation of assets created is assured. The sustainability of the proposed procurement,
financial management and information/communication reform, on the other hand, depends to a large extent
on the political will, integrity and management capacity of the leadership of the implementing agencies to
implement and sustain the reform actions recommended under the TA and agreed under the project.
- 14 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Roting            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Poor targeting of social programs           M         Selection of basic social services that tend to
benefit the poor
Capacity of implementing agencies to        S         Appropriate input of TA agreed to strengthen
implement programs in an efficient and                agency capacity.
timely manner
Locally responsive and quality service      S         Project monitoring and supervision by the
delivery at the level of interface between           implementing agencies, the beneficiaries and the
clients and implementing agencies                     Bank
From Components to Outputs
Timnely release of cash for project         M         Targeted cash release program agreed with
implementation                                        DBM
Political stability and/or continuation in  S         Reform agenda widely recognized as high
policies of departmental leadership                   priority in the agencies
Procurement under the project conforms      M         Dialogue and close monitoring by the World
to Bank approved procedures as agreed                 Bank Office Manila project team
during project preparation
Slow disbursement as a result of            S         Advance preparation of bidding documents;
procurement bottlenecks                              technical assistance
Delays in the implementation of actions     S         Adherence to agreed improvement actions
for the procurement, financial and                    covenanted
communications improvement programs
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The proposed expenditure management improvement program will affect certain vested interests
outside and inside the government. As a result of the procurement improvement program, suppliers who
have in the past profited from preferential access and lack of transparency will be adversely affected. This
is already apparent in the procurement of textbooks and school buildings, where the use of Bank
procedures has resulted in substantial reductions in price and has opened up the competition to new or
non-traditional suppliers. The FM reform will also increase transparency in the financial management of
the agencies and is likely to be resisted by any vested interests that may be affected as a result.
- 15 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None, as the following prior actions for Negotiations were met:
* Setting up of SEMP Project Steering Committees and core PMOs consisting of project coordinator,
accountant and procurement specialist.
*  Request for proposals (RFP), including agreed terms of reference for the Integrated Expenditure
Management Improvement TA to be sent to shortlisted consultants.
*  Manual of Operations approved by GOP.
*   Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) agreed between DBM, COA, DECS and DSWD covering the
implementation of the TA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The following conditions were agreed during negotiations.
Management aspects of the project or executing agency
(a)   that the Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary of DBM and consisting of Undersecretaries
from DECS and DSWD will be maintained with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the
progress of the Project and to coordinate its components.
(b)   that the Agency Steering Committee in each of DBM, DECS, and DSWD, will be maintained,
headed by the Secretary or the Undersecretary responsible for Financial Management and Procurement, and
key financial management and procurement staff, to oversee implementation of the Project.
(c)   that a PMO in each of DBM, DECS, and DSWD, will be maintained, headed by Project
coordinators, and assisted by financial, accounting, procurement and monitoring and evaluation specialists
for supervision and monitoring of the Project.
Project implementation
(d)   that the Project will be carried out in accordance with the Manual of Operations for the Project,
containing (i) operational procedures for determining the eligibility of Comprehensive and Integrated
Delivery of Social Services Activities and the appraisal and financing criteria therefor; (ii) procedures for
procurement, financial management, disbursement, supervision and impact evaluation in respect of the
Project; (iii) policy and procedures to ensure the participation of indigenous peoples in the design and
implementation of Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services Activities; and (iv)
procedures for the monitoring and reporting of Project activities.
(e)   that DECS and DSWD shall by September 30, 2000, furnish Financial Management, Procurement
and Communication Improvement Plans satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter implement such
Improvement Plans according to a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
(f)   that DECS shall develop an independent system satisfactory to the Bank for monitoring the
delivery of basic education facilities of textbooks, desks and chairs, and shall thereafter monitor the
delivery of such items according to a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
-16 -



(g)   that DSWD shall monitor procurement of items under the Project through a community-based
monitoring system satisfactory to the Bank, based upon the minimum basic needs survey, and utilizing the
Barangay Inter-Agency Committee.
(h)   that a mid-term review of the Project will be held on March 15, 2001.
H. Readiness for Implementation
EI . a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
FII 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
None
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Cl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
a BaIacIder              Al= Ruby                               yLB
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Dlrector           Country ManagerlDirector
- 17 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance human development Improved education outcomes Beneficiary assessments    The economy of the
by improving the delivery of  and reduction in gaps in  and analysis of APIS (annual Philippines continues its
basic social services      minimum basic needs        poverty incidence surveys)   recovery and does not suffer
from further shocks
Improved social expenditure  Budget expenditure
management in the social                              Policies and systems as well as
sector                     Audit reports              knowledge and skills arising
from procurement, financial,
and information management
reforms are institutionalized
in the lAs
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Sustained and improved     Increase in the elementary    Annual Poverty Indicator  Provision of basic social
delivery of basic social   school cohort survival rate    Surveys                services benefits the poor
services during a period of
continuing fiscal difficulties in Improvements in minimum    Census data         Major deficiencies in sector
the aftermath of the East Asia basic needs indicators                            management can be overcome
financial crisis through                              Social Welfare and Education by the proposed action plans
financing of key                                      MIS                        for improving financial
non-personnel expenditures   Improvements in the cost                            management, procurement,
and improved public        effectiveness of project   Procurement documents and  and communications
expenditure management     financed procurement by at   reports
least 30%
Timely and reliable financial  Budget and financial reports
reporting
- 18-



_ Ky ferfomianre
_e 2rardiy of ,j6)                r,,1IAuors         A...ttitorl--    y.          rIvalufin irTa I Ass    ions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Gaps in terms of educational  I.Number of classrooms  Agency quarterly and annual Identified basic social services
inputs relieved by the      completed to specification   reports                are targeted mainly at the poor
provision of textbooks, desks 2.Number of classrooms                            and benefit the poor
and chairs, and teacher    repaired/rehabilitated    LGU reports
training, and the construction 3.Number of desks and chairs
and repair/maintenance of   distributed to identified  Project Monitoring Reports   Capacity of implementing
classrooms                  schools                  (PMRs)                     agencies to implement
4.Number of textbooks                                activities in an efficient and
distributed to elementary and Project Supervision Reports  timely manner will be
secondary schools        (PSRs)                     enhanced by procurement,
s.Number of teachers trained                         financial, and information
Surveys and assessments   management reforms
Community-based information
monitoring system (CBIMS)
reports
Gaps in basic social services  i.Number of individuals and                      Delivery of social services at
relieved by the effective   groups served by the                                the level of interface between
implementation of social    different programs                                  lAs and clients is locally
welfare and development   2.Improvement in minimum                              responsive and of good quality
programs and timely provision  basic needs (MBN)
of inputs and services      indicators for food and
nutrition, health, water and
sanitation, shelter, and
income.
Procurement and Financial   i.lmplementation of                                 Support of IA management to
Management Reform           benchmark actions to                                reforms
improve procurement and
financial management in the
departments of health,
education and social welfare
- 19 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. Protection Of Basic                               Agency quarterly and annual Timely release of cash for
Social Services                                      physical and financial reports project implementation
Basic Education
Project Monitoring Reports   Political stability and/or
Construction of about 9000            8.50           (PMRs)                     continuation in policies and
classrooms                                                                      conunitment to reform of
Project Supervision Reports   departmental leadership
Repair and maintenance of            14.90           (PSRs)
about 25,000 school buildings                                                   Procurement under the project
Surveys and assessments   conforms to Bank approved
Purchase of 450,000 desks and         9.62                                      procedures as agreed during
chairs                                               Community-based information project preparation
and monitoring system
Distribution of 25 million           44.00           (CBIMS) reports            The hierarchies within the lAs
textbooks                                                                       are committed to
implementing the programs
Provision of short-term                3.25
in-service and
degree-upgrading training for
2,000 elementary and
secondary school teachers
Social Welfare                       13.00
Implementation of CIDSS
Maintenance and Operation of          8.60
Centres and Institutions
Provision of Assistance to             3.41
Distressed and Disadvantaged
Populations
B. Strengthening                      1.50
Management Capacity And
Systemu In The Social
Sectors
Integrated Technical
assistance for financial
management, procurement
and information
communication
- 20 -



Annex 2: Project Description
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The project has two main components: Component I comprises selected on-going programs in the
education and social welfare departnents of the GOP for the provision of basic social services largely
benefiting the poor. The project will de-bottleneck the backlog in the supply of key inputs for these
services. Component II is designed to strengthen fiscal discipline and enhance service delivery by public
expenditure reform. Specifically, it will support the revamping of the procurement, financial management
and information communication systems of the agencies.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$ million
A. Education (US$ 80.2 million).
Budget support to be provided to DECS will consist of five activities covering the provision of key inputs
for improving the quality of basic education:
(i)    School Construction (US $ 8.5 million equivalent).
There is an estimated backlog of 15,000 classrooms in elementary schools throughout the country. In the
past, the government's school building program has been mostly implemented by the Department of Public
Works and Highways. The project provides funding for the DECS executed portion of the school building
program with a view to benchmarking good practices using competitive bidding procedures. A total of
about 900 classrooms will be constructed under the project. Under Filipino law, priorities for the
construction of school buildings are determined on the basis of the school-age population (50%) and
current shortages (40%); 10% is allocated by the Secretary of DECS.
(ii)    Repairs and Maintenance (US $ 14.9 million equivalent).
The project would support the school repair and maintenance program. For CY 1999, already ongoing
repair programs procured under government LCB procedures, packaged in contracts of less than P 2
million, and all new repairs, to be procured under Bank NCB procedures would be included for Bank
financing. For CY 2000, a new approach would be introduced, providing a repair and maintenance fund of
about P 10,000 to eligible schools in the country. The School Repair and Maintenance Fund would assist
towards the introduction of greater school-based management and autonomy of the principal.
(iii)   Desks and Chairs (US $ 9.6 million equivalent).
The project would support the procurement of about 450,000 desks and chairs, under Bank ICB
procedures.
(iv)   Textbooks (US $ 44.0 million equivalent).
The project would support the procurement of about 25 million textbooks under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures approved by the Bank. Such procurement has resulted in significant savings (up
to 60%) and improved quality of textbooks.
-21 -



(v)    Teacher Training (US $ 3.2 million equivalent).
National and regional level teacher training programs will be supported under the project. The programs
cover those managed by the National Education Academy of the Philippines, and those of the Bureaus for
Elementary and for Secondary Education, and include degree upgrading programs and short-term in-service
training activities.
B. Social Welfare Promrams (US S 25.0 million) The project will fund the following: (i) the
Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services; (ii) the Maintenance and Operation of Centres
and Institutions; and (iii) Programs for Distressed and Disadvantaged Populations.
(i)    Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services (CIDSS) (US S 13.0 million)
CIDSS is a proven and highliy successful barangay-centered activity with projects currently being
implemented in 5th and 6th class municipalities. The poorest barangays are identified using a collection of
33 indicators related to income, education, health, access to clean water, shelter, nutrition and child labour.
Communities use the same indicators to determine their most urgent needs, after which a Peoples
Organisation (PO) is established which submits a proposal for a community-based project to the DSWD
field office. DSWD field offices release funds to POs based on approved project proposals. Examples of
CIDSS projects as of the end of 1998 include road improvement; access to potable water; electrification;
housing; sanitary toilets; and campaigns against domestic violence. The project will finance grants to POs
to purchase materials for minor works and monitoring and supervision expenses. DSWD field offices and
Barangay Development Committees monitor fund utilisation and outputs during project implementation.
(ii)    Maintenance and Operation of Centres and Institutions (US $ 8.6 million)
These include: (i) residential care facilities; and (ii) community based care and services.
Residential Care: Residential care facilities operate 24 hours a day and are located throughout the country.
They provide temporary residential care, psychological treatment, access to medical help, and general
rehabilitation to abused women and children, substance abusers, mentally ill, the elderly, and people with
disabilities.
Community Based Centres: These non-residential centres provide productivity and skills capability
building for disadvantaged women so that they can contribute to family income without having to migrate
to urban centres or abroad. This program targets women from depressed barangays in all sixteen regions. A
second program is the Social and Vocational Rehabilitation Program for Persons with disabilities. This
operates in six centres in Regions NCR, I, VII, IX, XII.
(iii)   Assistance Programs for Distressed & Disadvantaged Populations (US $ 3.4 million)
Protective Services for Children and Youth in Especially Difficult Circumstances: Interventions are
preventive and rehabilitative and include publicity and awareness campaigns, and services designed to
promote physical and psychological recovery from abuse, neglect and exploitation.
Assistance to Persons with Disability and senior Citizens: Rehabilitation services and opportunities for
senior citizens and people with disabilities are provided. The program includes integrated day services for
senior citizens and children, the Tuloy Aral Walang Sagabal which caters to disabled children and youth,
- 22 -



and programs for persons with disabilities (PWDs) and older persons.
Assistance to Victims of Disasters and Natural Calamities: This program provides augrnentation, logistics
and co-ordination support to LGUs, including emergency relief packages, and materials and personnel for
shelter repairs. LGUs are also assisted in conducting disaster preparedness capability building activities.
Project Component 2 - US$1.50 million
Component 2, Strengthening Management Capacity and Systems in the Social Sectors (US $ 1.5 million)
An integrated technical assistance for financial management, procurement and information communications
seeks to achieve the following:
Financial Management
(a) improved financial programming capacity and technique;
(b) timely and quality budget execution reporting;
(c) control over payroll expenditures that account for major part of the current spending;
(d) credible assets and inventory management system (acquisition, accounting, utilization and disposal)
within each department;
(e) strong intemal control procedures; and
(f) greater cohesion between planning, budgeting and finance divisions and performance and results
orientation.
Procurement distribution
(a) a procurement operations manual for all procurement activities in each department's center
including all Regional Offices embodying efficient and transparent procurement procedures;
(b) a well-defined organizational structure for procurement, both at the center and in the regions,
staffed with qualified, experienced and trained staff;
(c) all procurement is carried out and concluded efficiently and quickly within the original bid validity;
and
(d) sound procedures for the monitoring and quality control in ensuring that delivery of goods, supplies
and works are carried in accordance with the contract and are in accordance with Specifications.
Communications
(a) in each agency, the present information and communications system to be extended with additional
hardware and software, as needed, so that all regional centers are efficiently connected to the
center;
(b) the capacity and capability of the existing information and communications systems of the IA to be
upgraded, as necessary, to take advantage of recent improvements in technology;
(c) Information Systems Plans (ISP) for communications to be upgraded or established; and
(d) a comprehensive training program for all the staff of the lAs to be identified and implemented.
Three national teams of consultants will locate in the central office of the respective IA. The teams will
comprise financial management, procurement and distribution, and communications personnel. lAs will
provide a SEMP Steering Committee (chaired by the undersecretary responsible for finance), office space,
utilities, and counterpart functional personnel. The Consultants and their counterparts will work closely
- 23 -



with the IA steering committees but they will report to the national coordinator of their respective firm who
will report to the SEMP Project Coordinator. Teams will address the immediate and then longer-term
financial management, procurement, and communication needs of the IA. The requirements of each IA
differ and this will have to be taken into account by the firm responding to RFP for the consultancy.
- 24 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
.  -   - - f- ;  Xual  Fooeign  Total
Project        ,, _,,.oect_,_,,__l_i,    US $m_l_on US smiliion
DSWD sub-component                                        25.01         0.00         25.01
DECS sub component                                        54.21        26.00         80.21
TA component                                                            1.50          1.50
Front-end Fee                                                           1.00          1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       79.22        28.50        107.72
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs             79.22         28.50       107.72
Total Financing Required              79.22        28.50        107.72
Local       Foreign        Total
---Us $miliUon :US $umllion   US $mtlion
Goods                                                      44.04          26.00        70.04
Works                                                      23.87           0.00        23.87
TA Services                                                                1.50          1.50
Social Services and Training                                8.45           0.00         8.45
Incremental Operating Costs                                 2.86           0.00         2.86
Front-end Fee                                               0.00           1.00         1.00
Total Project Costs    79.22          28.50       107.72
Total Financing Required     79.22         28.50        107.72
- 25 -



Annex 4
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1. Background
The current economic and fiscal crises have translated into lower real incomes, higher
unemployment, and a reduction in non-salary expenditures in the social sectors. According to data from the
1998 Annual Poverty Indicators Survey (APIS) and the 1997 Family Income and Expenditure Survey
(FIES), per capita income declined by 12.1 % in real terms with average family income declining in all
income deciles except for the top decile. Families in the bottom decile, whose income declined by 29%,
were the most affected. The unemployment rate increased from 8.7% in 1997 to 10.2% in 1998, food prices
increased by 6.4% and overall inflation increased to 11.6% by the beginning of 1999. Although the
National Government Department allocated a sizeable proportion for the social sectors (43.5% in 1999),
the share allocated to Maintenance and Other Operating Expenses (MOOE) has decreased from 55% in
1992 to 39% in 1999. The social groups that have been most affected by the crisis include: small farmers;
upland communities; workers in the construction, manufacturing, and mining sectors; and laid-off urban
workers (Balisacan, 1999; SEMP Social Assessment, 1999).
a.    Education
The Governinent of the Philippines devotes a significant share of its public expenditure budget to
education. In 1994, 17 percent of the public sector budget was allocated to education. By 1998, the
allocation reached a high of 22.3 percent. Despite high levels of investment, the education system in the
Philippines continues to be plagued by long-standing inefficiencies including high unit costs and low
quality, the latter attributed in part to the chronic under funding of non-salary recurrent inputs (World
Bank, 1999). On average, about 87% of the budget allocation for basic education is earmarked for
personnel services. The remainder is distributed between MOOE (9%), school building programs (3%) and
other Capital Outlays (1%).
Recent budgetary shortfalls have been absorbed by MOOE and Capital Outlays. For example, the
total textbook requirement for the period of 1997-1999 is estimated at 100 million copies at a cost of PhP 6
billion. Only 31 % of the total requirements (PhP 1.85 billion) was budgeted for during that period. Actual
execution was about 30% of the allocated amount. In 1998, the total demand for classrooms was estimated
at 20,500, of which DECS budget could only cover 32% or 6,500 new classrooms. In addition, routine
school repairs and maintenance have become de facto responsibility of community members, parents and
teachers. Moreover, the maintenance budget (calculated on a per student basis) had declined in real terms
from PhP 510 in 1970 to PhP 135 in 1997.
The crisis has also effected the growth of school enrollment rates which fell from 3.3% to 0.7%
between the 1996/97-1997/98 and 1997/98-1998/99 school years. Secondary school enrollment declined
even more sharply over the same period. It fell by 7.9% for overall secondary enrollment and by 9.3% for
enrollment in the first year of secondary school. Data from the APIS and FIES show that 6.4% of
households have removed their children from school with the proportion of households in the poorest
income decile reaching 12.4% (Balisacan, 1999). Other impacts of the crisis are higher rates of school
absenteeism and desertion, lower rates of students' participation in extra-curricular activities, and quality
erosion particularly in already under-served areas of the country. This threatens the major achievement of
- 26 -



the Philippines in basic education - high participation rates.
b.     Social Welfare
The Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) provides assistance to economically
disadvantaged groups including poor women and their children, senior citizens without income, abandoned
and abused children, and persons with severe disabilities that prevent them from working. The economic
and fiscal effects of the crisis mean that while demand for these services is likely to rise, without external
resources, the available supply will contract. Indeed, in 1998, budget cuts resulted in a 25 percent funding
reduction. While the DSWD budget in fact suffered a smaller real reduction than those of some other
departments, the extreme vulnerability of its clients, and the likely increase in their number, suggest the
social value of additional resource allocations is high.
2. Project Components
a.     Education
The SEMP will finance the following: textbooks (US$ 44.0 million); teacher training (US$ 3.6
million); new classrooms (US$ 8.5 million); desks and chairs (US$ 9.6 million); school repairs and
maintenance (US$ 14.9 million). Vital expenditures in non-personnel items are expected to halt the erosion
of quality at the elementary and secondary school levels.
b.    Social Welfare
Three programs within the DSWD will be supported by the project The first two programs - the
Assistance Program for Distressed and Disadvantaged Populations (APDDP) and the Residential and Day
Care Facilities - are targeted to individuals in generically "bad" situations. For example, the APDDP
provides assistance to victims of natural disasters, to persons with disabilities, and to children and youths in
especially difficult situations. Similarly, the residential care facilities provide shelter and rehabilitation for
abused women and children, substance abusers, the mentally ill, and others, while the day care centers
provide work environments for the disabled, training for low-income women, etc.
The third program within the DSWD to be supported by the project is the Comprehensive
Integrated Delivery of Social Services (CIDSS), which aims to attack poverty through participatory
programs that strengthen households, communities, and local governments. This program is geographically
targeted to the poor, and is based on the identification of 33 minimum basic needs (MBN) indicators of
deprivation (including income, education, health, access to clean water, etc.). Poverty alleviation is
effected through demand driven-project choice and implementation, as monitored by CIDSS field offices.
c.     Public expenditure management reforms
The project will seek to improve the performance of the education and social welfare programs not
only by ensuring the availability of cash for key non-personnel inputs as outlined above, but by revamping
the procurement and financial management systems of these agencies. It will also establish a
communication system, primarily between the central and regional offices to facilitate expenditure
management.
- 27 -



3. Economic Analysis
I.     Linkages to Country Assistance Strategy and Economic and Sector Work
The project is fully consistent with the goals and priorities of the latest CAS for the Philippines.
The SEMP is highlighted in the CAS as a key instrument to protect social services and improve sector
management and efficiency. It is also consistent with the recommendations included in the Country
Economic Memorandum of 1998, which calls for a social protection strategy in the aftermath of the East
Asia crisis. In the immediate term, the social protection strategy would help to make food more affordable
for poor households, maintain the purchasing power of poor households, maintain public spendingfor
social services, and develop livelihood and mnicro-finance programs.
11.    Rationale for Public Intervention
a.     Education
Public intervention in the education sector, particularly in basic education, is usually justified on
equity and efficiency grounds. Both issues are addressed by the interventions included in the project. On
equity grounds, it is argued that since education is often a strong determinant of earnings, investments that
attempt to equalize educational opportunities (and the quality of education) may help to equalize the
distribution of income. For example, expanding basic education in rural areas may improve farming
productivity and increase rural incomes thereby reducing rural/urban income disparities. At the same time,
by opening opportunities for children from poor rural families, education may facilitate upward mobility.
It is important to note however, that reducing inequality in the distribution of schooling and public
expenditure is only a step towards reducing overall income inequality since other equally important policies
and factors also play a role in reducing income inequality (fiscal, wage, and labor market policies,
discrimination, etc.)
In the Philippines, even though participation rates are already high, access to schooling for the poor
remains a problem. The disparity in enrollments between the rich and poor increases even for higher grades
at the primary level. In Grade 6 while more than 95 percent of the rich are still enrolled, 25 percent of the
poor have already dropped out of school (World Bank, 1999). Filmer and Prichett using 1993
DIemographic and Health data show that Filipino children between the ages of 15 and 19 that richer
children tend to attain Grade 6 before their participation begins to drop off (1998). Poor children however,
begin to drop out after Grade 2. By Grade 9, 66 percent of poor children are not in school while 75 percent
of rich children are still enrolled (World Bank, 1999).
The interventions in this project are key to increasing access to schooling for poor children. For
example, the provision of textbooks by the government could significantly increase the participation of poor
children whose parents cannot afford to purchase textbooks and workbooks. Similarly in the case of school
maintenance, it is the poor who often suffer when budgets are cut as they cannot afford to raise adequate
funds to ensure that their classroom are equipped for instruction (World Bank, 1999).
The 1999 World Bank education sector study for the Philippines "Philippine Education for the 21st
Century" argues that since teacher compensation is one of the largest expenditures in basic education,
increasing teacher effectiveness would be a major step towards improved efficiency. It further suggests
that the major problems are: i) suboptimal deployment of teachers and (ii) inadequate preparation of
teachers themselves. By funding teacher-training activities, this project helps address some of the
- 28 -



inefficiencies in the system.
It is generally agreed that there is strong relationship between the quality of education and
economic growth, with various studies showing stronger growth effects from investing in quality rather
than in quantity of schooling. At the micro level, studies on the returns to investments in education indicate
that the social rate of return is usually higher for primary education and lowest at the tertiary level. The
fact that education increases income should not be interpreted as an additional argument for public
provision. However, for those levels of education for which public provision is desirable, it must be of good
quality in order to truly optimize public investment and strengthen human capital.
b.     Social Welfare
The activities of the DSWD, including those financed under the loan, are essentially redistributive
in nature. There is thus a clear equity rationalization for such interventions, as long as it can be shown that
the direct effects of the project are not offset by adjustments in private sector transfers to the beneficiaries
of DSWD services. There is some evidence that the DSWD relies (to an unspecified extent) on
philanthropic donations, voluntary support, and other uncompensated inputs. Private inter-household
transfers are also extensive, and elastic (see Cox and Jimenez (1997).
However, two arguments can be used to sustain a case in favor of public provision as deployed
with the project funds. First, a large share of the funds are directed to improving the delivery of DSWD
services (e.g., training personnel in LGUs), so additions to these funding sources are unlikely to be offset
by reductions in private transfers. Indeed, it is arguable that private contributions to DSWD programs
could increase if they are perceived to be used more efficiently because of improved administrative
capacity. Second, in light of the economic and budget crisis, some domestic philanthropic sources may
have tightened, while the demand for redistributive funds, as manifest in the demand for DSWD services,
has increased. In this case, there is little reason to expect that the net impact of additional public provision
targeted to the poor will be much smaller than the gross increase in funds made available through the
project.
e.     Public expenditure reforms
The question of the rationale for public intervention does not arise in the case of internal
organizational and expenditure reform in the areas of procurement and FM. No amount of private sector
activity will, in itself, improve the efficiency of the public sector. It should be noted that this argument
does not mean that there is no decision margin regarding the functional activities undertaken by the
government - e.g., whether to provide health care, schooling, etc. - but just that whatever it does provide
should be provided efficiently. Although this point sounds trivial, it is actually not. See Diamond and
Mirrlees (1971).
III.    Cost-benefit/Cost-effectiveness or Related Analyses
a.     General issues
As the project is being prepared on a very short timetable to provide budgetary support for
programs in the social sector, a full formal cost-benefit analysis is not undertaken. Given the strong
equity/poverty objectives of the project, the primary evaluative tool should be a benefit incidence study.
The success of the project in reaching the poor depends on the specific delivery and funding allocation
mechanisms outlined above. While it is difficult to make accurate predictions about the degree to which
- 29 -



project benefits accrue to the poor, the nature of the goods financed, the prevailing market conditions, and
the fact that the loan also finances reform of the internal management of the relevant departments, mean
that some confidence is warranted.
In addition, since the loan funds expenditures that would have been part of the government's
regular budget if not for fiscal pressures, it is possible to indirectly evaluate the project by examining the
appropriateness of the government's overall budgetary policies. The Philippines has traditionally had high
educational enrollment rates, suggesting that its education sector policies have been reasonable (although
the quality of education in poor areas needs to be explicitly verified). The CIDSS component of the
DSWD program appears to have been especially successful in targeting disadvantaged groups.
b.    Education
Some of the interventions included in this project mirror those adopted under the Third Elementary
Education Project. The economic analysis of the project drawing on a study by Tan et al (1996) illustrates
the cost-effectiveness of providing workbooks and classroom furniture as compared with the provision of
pre-school education in the Philippines. In their 1997 study, Princhett and Filmer using data from the same
study examine the per dollar cost-effectiveness of workbooks and furniture with other inputs such as
reductions class size. Both studies find that the provision of workbooks and classroom furniture in the
Philippines is more cost effective than any of the other interventions tested. For both mathematics and the
Filipino language, the cost effectiveness ratio computed as the cost in pesos per standard deviation gain in
achievement was much lower for workbooks and classroom furniture than pre-school education (ust over
100 in comparison to ratios ranging from 3,000 to 29,000).
C.     Financial management and procurement reforms
It is possible to provide some rough calculations of the return to the financial management and
procurement reform component of the loan. This smaller but somewhat more ambitious component of the
project focuses on improving the efficiency of the public sector, specifically of the departments through
which the first component funds will be allocated. In principal, the social return to such investments can be
extremely high. Indeed, much of the benefit from reform can be achieved at little resource cost, as long as
the public sector is flexible enough to alter internal incentives, and senior civil servants are receptive to
change. The unpredictability surrounding these somewhat intangible inputs, and the political opposition
that inevitably confronts institutional changes, mean that while potential returns are truly enormous, they
are also considerably uncertain.
Current procurement practices are laborious, with delays of up to two years not uncommon. Also,
despite such long time lags, unit prices paid by the government are not low - for example the switch to
World Bank procurement guidelines has resulted in lowering the price of textbooks by more than 40
percent compared to negotiated prices paid by DECS for past procurement. Project funds for textbooks
amounts to about US$ 44.0 million. The effect of the procurement reform is to reduce prices by 40
percent, thus increasing the quantity of real resources purchasable by 67 percent (l/(1-0.4)=1.67). This
two thirds increase in supply amounts to US$ 29.50 million, yielding a return of 27% on the US $107
million project investment. This in fact is an underestimate because it does not include savings from the
procurement of other items, nor does it include the benefits attributable to the social programs or the public
expenditure reform component. Thus the return on the bank financed program lending could be as high as
10,000 percent. Indeed, this return is calculated under the assumption that the procurement reform is only
effective in reducing prices of goods purchased with the project funds. If prices of all publicly purchased
inputs in the social sectors were reduced similarly, the return would be enormous.
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1  |Year 2  |Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6  | Year 7|
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          33.8       61.0       I.S                  0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            11.0       0.3        0.2       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         44.8       61.3       1.7        0.0       -        -       -
Total Financing             44.8       61.3       1.7        0.0       0.0        -       -
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 41.0       58.0        1.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                 3.8       3.3        0.7       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Front-end Fee              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    44.8       61.3       1.7        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
1. Guidelines. Procurement of goods and works, and consultant services funded wholly or partly by Bank
Loan will be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines (" Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999, and the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" of January 1997 revised September 1997 and January 1999).
There are several conflicts between the procurement procedures of the Republic of the Philippines and
those which are acceptable to the World Bank. These include but are not limited to:
*   bidding opportunities are only advertised in the local press, whereas the Bank's NCB procedures
require advertising in the national press;
*   bracketing is used whereas this will not apply, unless specifically agreed by the Bank in advance of
bidding;
*   pre-qualification of contractors is practiced whereas the Bank considers pre-qualification only to be
necessary for large or complex works and not applicable for small contracts envisaged under this
project.
A procurement side letter will be issued by the Government, on the same date as signing of the Loan
Agreement, detailing procedures under existing national laws that are not acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement methods (Table A)
2. Summary of the Assessment of the Agency Procurement CaDacity. Assessment of the procurement
capacity of the two Social Sector Departments (SSDs), the Department of Education, Culture and Sports
(DECS) and the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), which are responsible for the
bulk of the procurement under the project, was carried out in accordance with the Office Memorandum
from the Manager of OCSPR, dated August II, 1998. The assessment involved review of the procurement
policies and procedures adopted and implemented in the central office (CO) and 15 regional offices (RO) of
DECS and DSWD. The Banks Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for the Philippines was
completed in March 1997. The general findings of the assessment of DECS and DSWD conform to those
of the CPAR.
In general, the laws, rules and regulations relating to procurement being implemented by the two SSDs
adhere to principle of competition and are intended to promote economy, efficiency and transparency.
However, certain laws, procedures and regulations were assessed to be inimical to economy, efficiency and
transparency. Some of them are within the authority of the two departments to amend and these will be
identified during implementation of the procurement part of the TA (para 3c). Others need legislative and
central government interventions that need to be included as part of long-term procurement reforms.
However, procurement under Bank-financed projects are not affected because of waivers of laws, rules and
regulations on procurement that form part of the Loan Agreement. The present leadership of the SSDs is
addressing the issues of efficiency, economy and transparency in procurement, as experienced in recent
procurement of textbooks under on-going Bank-financed projects. However, the agencies need technical
assistance to sustain department-wide procurement reform implementation. In general, the capacities of
- 32 -



DSWD and DECS, mainly due to the recent reforms instituted, were assessed to be good in the case of
DSWD and fair for DECS.
To ensure that procurement under the project will be carried out efficiently and institutional capability will
be strengthened within the SSDs, respectively, an integrated TA consultancy covering procurement,
financial management and information systems will be financed under the project.
3. Methods. Procurement under the sub-components of the project will be carried out by the specific SSD
following agreed procedures and using the appropriate Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) of the Bank.
Procurement under the project will comprise (i) textbooks, desks and chairs; construction and repairs or
maintenance of school building; minor equipment; training programs for the Department of Education,
Culture and Sports (DECS), (ii) community sub-projects, food items, repairs and maintenance of charitable
centers and various office supplies for Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), (iii)
information technology equipment and software for the SSDs, and
(iv) TA services for Department of Budget and Management (DBM).
A. Goods: (US$ 70.04 million). Goods envisioned under this component, include (i) purchase and delivery
of textbooks and teacher's manuals, estimated at US$ 43.92 million; (ii) desks, and chairs and school
furniture, estimated US$ 9.63 million, and (iii) purchase and delivery of food items, office supplies and
simple equipment for DSWD programs, estimated at US$ 16.49 million.
a) Goods packages with cost in excess of US$ 200,000, up to a maximum aggregate cost of about US$
53.55 million, will be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the appropriate
Bank's SBDs. To combine the advantages of decentralization with economies of scale, the procurement for
textbooks and desks/chairs, will be carried out following ICB using the "systems type contract". Under
such a contract, the center would bid for total national requirements. Each region would then proceed with
a contract at the unit rates established by the "systems type contract". This approach has the advantage or
transferring some responsibility to each region but the difficulties associated with 15 separate bidding
processes are largely eliminated. In all cases aggregate variations to the contracts shall be limited to the
provision of the specific bidding documents cleared by the Bank.
b) Packages valued between US$ 50,000 and US$ 200,000 equivalent will be done following National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to a maximum of aggregate amount of
US $ 2.53 million.
c) Procurement of goods with estimated value below US$ 50,000 will be procured following shopping
procedures as defined in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, up to a maximum aggregate amount of
US S1.38 million
d) Goods required for disaster preparedness activities for families and communities, and post disaster
rehabilitation activities will be procured following direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank, up
to a maximum aggregate amount of US$ 3.75 million. These procedures are well-established and have
been reviewed during appraisal and found to be efficient.
e) Community Participation - Procurement under the CIDSS program of DSWD involves supplying the
minimum basic needs identified by organized communities as approved by DSWD under EO. No. 443.
The needs translate into small projects where communities provide labor and DSWD provides for materials
and simple equipment. Examples are pumps for small water supply systems, materials for feeder roads,
footpaths, milk and food for children feeding programs, pre-school materials for day care centers,
- 33 -



communal toilets, and other small projects including a revolving fund for self-employment of very small
value. Community participation procurement of very small goods contract estimated to cost less than
$20,000, up to an aggregate amount of US $8.83 million equivalent, may be used in those circumstances
where there are no contractors or suppliers in the locality or barangay. The procedures under this method
involves: (i) National Shopping for procurement of materials by Peoples Organization (PO); (ii) Direct
Purchase for goods that are obtainable from one source in the community; and (iii) revolving fund of no
more than US$ 5,000 to the PO under the Self Employment Assistance (SEA) Scheme (to be advanced
from counterpart funds). The CIDSS program, developed over a number of years, by DSWD, is very well
managed. The findings of independent evaluations are that the procurement arrangements are efficient.
B. Works: (US$ 23.87 million). Works will include construction and repairs or maintenance of school
buildings, day care centers, water supply systems, barangay halls and related facilities of small value and
dispersed over a wide geographical area. No international competitive bidding (ICB) is expected under the
proposed project due to the small size and dispersed nature of subproject contracts. Selection of contractors
will be carried out following post qualification procedures acceptable to the Bank. The following
thresholds will apply:
a) civil works contracts estimated to exceed US $ 50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding US $ 2.23 million and US$ 6.26 million equivalent, for CY 1999 and CY 2000, respectively,
will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. To the
extent possible contracts will be bundled with an estimated cost of about US$ 100,000 to a maximum of
about US$ 500,000 for ease in control and management. The NCB bidding documents earlier agreed under
the separate Bank-fnanced TEEP (Ln. No. 4108-PH) will be adapted and used.
b) individual civil works contract estimated to cost less than US $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding US $ 4.81 million and US$ 10.57 million equivalent, for CY 1999 and CY 2000,
respectively, will be procured through simplified procurement procedures similar to national shopping.
Contracts will be awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified contractors. Participation
of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) would be acceptable, if they are qualified and have a good
track record.
C. Consultant services (US$ 1.50 million) will include the provision of technical assistance, training and
conduct of workshops. The integrated TA which will cover consultancy services for DECS, DSWD and
DBM will be awarded following QCBS procedures. About 300 person-months of consultancy services will
be provided, from one firm, largely, in the areas of procurement, financial management and
communications over a two-year period. Because of the archipelagic nature of the Philippines, the
consultants will provide assistance through zonal offices and to the SSDs and DBM central offices in
Manila.
D. Social Services. (US$ 5.20 million) Services of about 1,200 individual field workers, professional
counselors, lawyers and doctors in connection with the delivery of social services to children, victims of
disasters, and the disadvantaged population will be selected following comparison of qualifications of
individuals. The Bank had reviewed the process and is satisfied as to the reasonableness of DSWD
selection procedures and the remuneration paid.
E. Teacher's Training (US$ 3.25 million) Procurement of Teacher's training up will be carried out
following comparison of qualifications of individual professional trainers or training institutions who have
provided training in the past satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank had reviewed the process and is satisfied
with the efficiency of the selection procedures for the teachers to be trained and the reasonableness of the
cost of the training that will be provided.
- 34 -



F. Incremental Operating Cost (USS 2.86 million) Support for project management, operation, monitoring
and supervision activities for the DSWD programs (including travel, subsistence allowances and provisions
of consumable supplies) will be provided in accordance with existing Govermnent prescribed limits and
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expditu -;te                               P - a      Nt thp - -.
1. Works                            0.00           8.49          15.38           0.00          23.87
(0.00)         (7.64)        (13.84)        (0.00)        (21.48)
2. Goods                           53.55           2.53          13.96           0.00          70.04
(52.44)        (2.28)        (12.76)         (0.00)        (67.48)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           1.00           0.50           1.50
(TA)                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)
4. Social Services & Training       0.00           0.00           8.45           0.00           8.45
(0.00)         (0.00)        (7.61)         (0.00)         (7.61)
5. Incremental Operating Cost       0.00           0.00           2.86           0.00           2.86
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.43)         (0.00)         (1.43)
6. Front-end Fee                    0.00           0.00           1.00           0.00           1.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)
Total                            53.55          11.02         42.65           0.50          107.72
(52.44)        (9.92)        (37.64)         (0.00)        (100.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, direct contracting, comrnunity
participation, consulting services, services of individuals, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
Note: NBF item is a Japan grant - TF25937 PH, approved August 17, 1999.
- 35 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            1.50     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.25      0.00       4.75
(1 .00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.92)    (0.00)    (3 .92)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      5.20      0.00      5.20
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.68)    (0.00)    (4.68)
Total   1.50     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      8.45      0.00      9.95
._____ _ . (1.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (7.60)    (0.00)    (8.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), and for
firms, Paras 3.8 and 3.9
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 36 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
4. Prior review. The procedures set forth in Paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply to:
a) the first civil works contract, and all those in excess of US$ 200,000 for contracts to be procured
following National Competitive Bidding procedures; and first contract per province per year above $20,000
for contracts to be procured according to procedures similar to shopping;
b) each contract for goods estimated to cost in excess of US$ 200,000 equivalent, and all contracts
awarded through ICB; and,
c) consultant services with finns valued at US$ 100,000 equivalent or more, and contracts with individuals
valued at US$ 50,000 equivalent or more.
5. Post review. With respect to each contract not governed by Line 3 above, the
procedures set forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Ratio
shall be 1: 4 contracts.
6. Domestic preference. For ICB procurement, goods or textbooks or desks / chairs
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Annex 2 thereto.
7. Advance Contractin,g and Retroactive Financing . Being budgetary support for CY
1999 and 2000, eligible expenditures for CY 1999 are estimated at about US$ 20 million,
which is about 20% of the loan amount. The majority of this retroactive financing will be
DSSWD expenditures for CIDSS, disaster preparedness and maintenance of centers and
institutions. During appraisal, the SOEs were reviewed and found acceptable. In view of
the urgent nature of the project and to accelerate project implementation, the DECS has
proceeded with the initial steps of procurement for textbooks, desks and chairs, and civil
works in accordance with Paragraph 1.9 of the Guidelines. ICB bids for about US$
12.60 million of textbooks received in mid-October 1999 are being evaluated. Award
recommendation for this procurement is expected to be submitted to the Bank before loan
effectiveness.
8. Procurement Improvement Program. To ensure that procurement under the project
will be carried out efficiently and institutional capability will be strengthened within the
SSDs, respectively, the following will be undertaken:
(i) In the first few months of the project, the TA provided under the project will ensure
that items are procured quickly and efficiently following the Bank's procurement
procedures;
(ii) During implementation, areas of weakness in procurement in the SSDs will be identified and one
year into implementation, the SSDs and the Bank will formally agree on the steps to further strengthen
procurement. This will include adoption of improved procedures spelled out in a procurement manual,
integrated procurement training and revision to implementing regulations.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
- 37 -



1. Works                  Above US$ 50,000             NCB            First contract, and all those
in excess of US$ 200,000
(US$ 8.0 million)
Less than US$ 50,000    Procedures similar to   First contract above
shopping             US$20,000 per
province/region per year
(US$ 3.10 million)
2. Goods                US$ 200,000 and above           ICB               All (US$ 53.55m)
3. Services              Above US$ 100,000             QCBS                  US$ 1.50 m
a. Firms
b. Individual           More than US$ 50,000   Consultant's qualifications      All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 65.45 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
which will be carried out by procurement proficient staff from the Bank's office in the Philippines
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 38 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan will be made against the expenditure categories shown in Table
C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
EkpO  lir      G t:o:y  Ahniu iin Mlliin  {i:    Findrg z
Works                                     20.40                         90%
Goods                                     64.00           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
75% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant Services                        1.00                         100%
Social services & Training                 7.20                         90%
Incremental Operating Cost                 1.40                         50%
Unallocated                                5.00
Front-end fee                              1.00
Total Project Costs                       100.00
Total                                     100.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for:
*  civil works below $100,000 equivalent per contract
*   goods below $100,000 equivalent per contract
3   consulting firms contracts below $100,000 equivalent per contract except those awarded on a single
source basis
3   contracts for individual consultants below $50,000 per contract.
All other withdrawal applications will be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
The preparation of SOEs shall be done by the accounting personnel, at the relevant central, regional or
division levels where disbursement transactions take place, within each implementing department. This
shall be coordinated by the respective department project managers and shall be submitted by the DBM for
consolidation and submission to World Bank for reimbursement. To ensure uniformity and disseminate the
procedural guidelines for SOE preparation, learning workshops shall be conducted with the assistance of
the DBM and WB financial specialists.
The project will begin producing the following transitional PMRs as specified in the LACI manual as soon
as the project is effective:
*   Sources and Uses of Funds (Report 1-A)
*  Procurement Managernent Report (Reports 3-A, 3-B, 3-C and 3-D)
After six months, the project will produce output monitoring reports to meet the simplified quarterly PMR
- 39 -



standards.
Special account:
To facilitate the implementation of the project, one Special Account (SA) will be opened in a commercial
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The SA will be opened and maintained by the
Bureau of Treasury. The SA, which will cover the Bank's share of the eligible expenditures under the
Project, will have an authorised allocation of US $ 7.0 million, with an initial deposit of US$ 4.5 million.
Applications to replenish the SA, supported by the appropriate documentation will be submitted regularly,
preferably monthly, or when the amount equals 50% of the initial deposit, whichever comes first. The
DBM will issue procedural and management guidelines governing the operation of the SA as part of the P
IP.
Funds Flow and Accounting
Project accounts will be prepared from the same payment vouchers which form the basis of the GOP's
accounting records. The accounting assistant at the level where the disbursement takes place will be
responsible for recording all project related data in separately identifiable project accounting records. Each
of the lAs will be responsible for preparing its own mini "SOE" which will then be submitted to DBM in
accordance with procedures laid down by that office. The DBM will then collate this information and
submit it to the Bank together with a completed Withdrawal Application form, when a replenishment to the
Special Account is required.
As part of the annual budget appropriations, DBM will allocate in advance to the ministries, funds required
for project implementation. The lAs would pre-finance project expenditures from this appropriation. The
DBM will then claim a refund from the Special Account at regular intervals which will be credited to the
General Fund.
- 40 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6                             10
First Bank mission (identification)             02/12/99                      02/12/99
Appraisal mission departure                      08/15/99                     10/20/99
Negotiations                                     10/20/99                     12/22/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   02/28/2000
Prepared by:
Department of Budget and Management, with Departnents of Education, Culture and Sports and Social
Welfare and Development
Preparation assistance:
For PIP - John Cameron (consultant)
For School Building Component - Nigel Wakeham (consultant architect)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     speciality
Vinay Bhargava                    Country Director
Alan Ruby                         Sector Director
Maureen Law                       Sector Manager
Jayshree Balachander              Task Team Leader
David Howarth                     Operational Core Services
Noel Sta. Ines                    Procurement
Cecilia Vales                     Procurement
Joseph Reyes                      Financial Management
Cynthia F. Manalastas             Team Assistant
Louis Charles Viossat             Health
Brigitte Duces                    Education
Alfonso de Guzman                 Education
Karen Hudes                       Legal
Hung Kim Phung                    Disbursement
Ronaldo Oblepias                  Human Development
Bhuvan Bhatnagar                  Social Assessment
Lanfranco Blanchetti-Revellii     Social Development
Jacqueline Baptist                Economist
- 41 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. SEMP - Borrower's Project Implementation Plan - DBM, DECS, DOH, DSWD with John Cameron,
September 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. DOH Component - Louis Charles Viossat, 1999
2. DECS Component - Brigitte Duces, September 1999
3. DSWD Component - Malaika Stoll, 1999
4. Proposed SEMP: Community-Based Information & Monitoring System - Angelina Gregorio-Medel,
1999
5. Social Assessment: Health Sector - Angelina Gregorio-Medel, 1999
6. Social Assessment: Education Sector - Angelina Gregorio-Medel, 1999
C. Other
1. Review of the Financial Management Systems of the DSWD, DOH and DECS - Emmy Boncodin
(Coordinator),
DSWD -       Divina Somera, 1999
DOH   -      Gilda Resurreccion, 1999
DECS -       Fe Timonera, 1999
3. Analysis of Salient Findings and Recommendations on the DECS Procurement Procedures and
Organizational Arrangements - Rey Abella, 1999
4. SEMP: Report on DOH and DSWD Procurement Components - Sofronio Ursal, 1999
5. Report on the Information and Communication Systems in the DSWD, DOH and DECS - Economic
Development Foundation, August 1999
6. Aide Memoire on the Public Sector Reform Loan and Financial Management Improvement Program of
the Social Expenditure Management Project - Subramanya Ramamurthy, September 20,1999
7. Republic of the Philippines: Improving Government Budget and Financial Management Aide Memoire
- J. Diamond, P. Desai, G. Dixon, and I. Lienert - Intemational Monetary Fund, April 20,1999
8. Assessment of the National Government Accounting System - United Nations Development Programme
9. The Social Impact of the Regional Financial Crisis in the Philippines - Reyes, Celia M., Rosario G.
Manasan, Aniceto C. Orbeta, Generoso G. de Guzman, 1999, Paper presented for the Asian Development
Bank.
*Including electronic files
-42 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 128
PH-PE-39022     1999 PHILIPPINES                  LGU URB&WATER SANITA                   23.30        0.00        0.00      23.07     -0.23      0.00
PH-PE-48588     1999 REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPIN    LGU FINANCE AND DEV                   100.00        0.00        0.00     100.00      0.00       0.00
PH-PE-56624     1999 LBP                          BANKG SYS REF (FSAL                   300.00        0.00        0.00     200.00      0.00       0.00
PH-PE-57598     1999 DEVELOPMENTBANKOFTHEP  RURALFINANCEIII                             15o.oo        0.00        0.00      150.00    30.00       0.00
PH-PE-57624     1999 REP OF PHILS                 PRIVATE ENT CREDIT                    150.00        0.00        0.00     150.00      9.00       0.00
PH-PE-4566      1998 GOP                          EARLYCHILDDEV.                         19.00        0.00        0.00       18.10      1.10      0.00
PH-PE-4576      1998 GOP                         WATER DISTRICT DEV.                     56.80        0.00        0.00      56.80      17.70      0.00
PH-PE-4595      1998 GOP                          COMMUNITY BASED RESO                   50.00        0.00        0.00      48.50      5.40       0.00
PH-PE-51386     1998 GOP                          SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                     10.00        0.00        0.00        8.22     2.22       0.00
PH-PE-37079     1997 SUBIC BAY METRO. AUTH.       AGRARIAN REFORM COMM                   50.00        0.00        0.00       42.60      5.90      0.00
PH-PE-40981     1997 REP OF PHILS.                SECOND SUBIC SAY                       60.00        0.00        0.00      57.63     48.62       0.00
PH-PE-4602      1997 GOP                          THIRD ELEM EDUCATION                  113.40        0.00        0.00      110.33     52.49      0.00
PH-PE-4613      1997 GOP                          WATER RESOURCES DEVE                   58.00        0.00        0.00      52.64      27.64      0.00
PH-PE4571       1996 GOP                          TRANS GRID REINFORCE                  200.00        0.0O        0.00      152.67      7.83      0.00
PH-PE4611       1996 LBP                          MNLA 2ND SEWERAGE PR                   57.00        0.00        9.00      47.00      42.00      0.30
PH-PE-4614      1996 GOVTOFTHEPHILS               RURAL FINANCE II                      150.00        0.00        0.00      24.07    -19.93       0.00
PH-PE-4567      1995 NPC AND PNOC                 WOMENS HEALTH & SAFE                   18.00        000         0.00       14.66     5.66       0.00
PH-PE-4584      1994 GOV OF PHILIPPINES           LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMA                  211.00        0.00       10.97       14.80    25.75      1478
PH-PE-4607      1994 GOP                          LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERM                  227.00        0.D0       49.67      27.45      77.09     27.42
PH-PE4568       1993 GOP                          URB HEALTH & NUTRITI                    0.00       70.00        0.00      47.28      38.43      0.00
PH-PE-4589      1993 GOP                          IRRIGOPERSUPPII                        51.30        0.00        0.00       18.72     1873       000
PH-PE-4538      1992 GOP                          SECOND VOCATIONAL TR                    0.00       3600         0.00       8.77      7.83       0.00
PH-PE-4592      1992 GOP                          MUNICIPALDEVIII                        68.00        0.00        0.00      24.74     24.75       3.48
PH-PE4597       1992 GOVT. OF PHILS.              HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT P                  150.00        0.00        0.00      29.83      31.03      4.70
PH-PE4558       1991 ROP                          ENV,& NAT. RES. MGT                   158.00       66.00        0.00       14.49     11.21      0.00
PH-PE-4572      1991                              COMMUNAL IRRIG. II                     46.20        0.00        6.58       8.56      15.17     -0.81
Total:   2,527.00     172.00       76.22    1,450.93    485.39     49.87
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    1,276.74          6,906.49        8,183.23
of which has been repaid:        58.10        3,875.89       3,933.99
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    2,685.63          3,050.61        5,736.24
Amount sold:          0.00           31.35          31.35
of which repaid:        0.00           31.35           31.35
Total Undisbursed:    1,450.93            19.98        1,470.91
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 43 -



PHILIPPINES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
0/97/98          Far East Bank                  70.00    0.00    15.00   50.00   47.36    0.00    15.00   50.00
1967/88            MERALCO                         6.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.90    0.00      0.00    0.00
1970/86/88/89      PLDT                            8.74    0.00    0.00    7.39    8.74    0.00      0.00    7.39
1974/79            Maria Cristina                  0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.44    0.00
1979/90            General Milling                 0.00    0.00     1.73    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.73    0.00
1980/82/89/90/94/95  AACT                         18.22    0.00    2.73     0.00   18.22    0.00     2.73    0.00
1989               H&QPV-I                         0.00    0.00    0.61     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.61    0.00
1990               Avantex Mill                    5.63    0.00     1.98    0.00    5.63    0.00     1.98    0.00
1992               Bacnotan                        2.80    0.00    5.63    2.00    2.80    0.00      5.63    2.00
1992               Pilipinas Shell                 0.00    10.57    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.57     0.00    0.00
1993               H&QPV-II                        0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.40    0.00
1993               Pagbilao                       45.00    0.00    10.00    7.00   45.00    0.00    10.00    7.00
1993/94            Mindanao Power                  0.00    0.00    4.26    0.00    0.00    0.00      4.26    0.00
1994               Walden Mgmt                     0.00    0.00    0.05     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.05    0.00
1994               Walden Ventures                 0.00    0.00    3.75     0.00    0.00    0.00     3.75    0.00
1995               Sual Power                     30.00    0.00    17.50   196.00   26.10    0.00    17.50  157.50
1996               All Asia Growth                 0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      4.00    0.00
1996               All Asia Manager                0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.04    0.00
1996               All Asia Venture                0.00    0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.01    0.00
1998               Drysdale Food                  15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               H&Q PV II                       0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.35    0.00
1998               Pryce Gases                    13.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               TRP                             0.00    0.00    0.05     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.05    0.00
Total Portfolio:       215.29   10.57   77.78  262.39   171.75    10.57    71.53  223.89
Approvals Pending Conmnitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
- 44 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PHILIPPINES: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
east   Lowor-                                           9/7199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asia &   middle-        _
Philltoines    Pacific   Income       Development diamond
199f
Pooulation m,d-vear (millrons)                           75 1      1 817       908                   Life expectancy
GNP nert caita (Atlas method. USSI                       1 050       990      1 710
GNP tAtlas moEthod. US$ billions)                        78 9      1 802      1 557
AveraSo annual orowth. 1992.98
Pooulation (i                                              2 3        1.2        11
I abor force i`%)                                          2 7        16        1 5      GNP                                Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimatee tReat vear avaitable. 199,2489                                     capita                         enroilment
Povertv f(% of oooulettion below nattona/ ooverv line)     3R
t IrAn nnnnulation (f% of total nonulation)                S17        36        i8
Ltife ecoectanev at birth (vearsl                          e8         69         68
Infant mortalitv (oar f 000 live birt'Sst                  35         37         38
Child malnutrition /% of children under 51                 30         20                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water t% of oooulation)                     83         77         75
Ittiteracv (% of oooulafion soe 15+1                        5         15         14
Grons,r/mAryfenrnIllment  4of sr.horol.atOeOoU/atiOnl     11fi       117        1                 Pluhpplnes
Male                                                               119       106                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                             118        1OD
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS ated LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     19t8       1997       1988
Economic ratios'
GOP fUSS billionsl                              197      33 1        f74?      651
Gross domestiC investmentIGOP                   30 6     17.5       24 9       20 5                      Trade
Exoorts Of coods and services1GD2P              711      2687       491        55 7
Gross domTestic savinos/GOP                     27 6      18.0       14.5      16 3
rnOsfi national s-WviAqtAfcP                              17        70n7       71 7
Current account batawceSGOP                     -3 8      -1 3        04        T        Domestic   +
Interest oavmentslGO P                           1.1       40         7 1       3.0      savings
Totatl dtht/GfnP                                4A fi     R 9        551 3     73        Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                      152       360         8.0      10.3
Present value of debtlGDP                                            52 7
Present value of debtl/&xsrt"o                                       76 2
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988.88      17         1"t998   1989903
(averaoe nrnual orowthl
GOP                                    11        30       52        -0         48                 Philippines
GNP nor canita                        -1.8       1.3       30        .7 1       27                 Lower-middle-income aroup
Excorts of coods and services          47        92       17 5      -10.4       S1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GDPI                                                                               20
Aoriculture                                     287       24 0       18.7      169
Industrv                                        36 3     34 4       32.2       316 8       -
Manufacturino                                 254       24.8       22 3      21 9  o         _             
Servires                                        34 9     41 8        491       516                           s     96   97
Private consumolion                             62.2     73 6       72 5       70 4     -20
General nvsernment nnnstimntinn                 103        8 4       130       133 3GDI                             :0GDP
Imoorts of coods and services                   241      262        59 4       59 9
1977-87  1988-98       t997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
/averaae annual arowthl
Aoriculture                                      11        1 5        2.9      -6 6      30
Industrv                                        -0 6       31         61       -1 8
Manufacturino                                  -O 3      2 7        4 2       -1 1     15
Services                                         27        37         56         35
Private consumotion                              2.0       3.7        3.0       2.7             03   94   sr   se   07
General oovernment consumotion                  -0.7       3 5        16        0.8
Gross domestic investment                        4 8       48        11 7     -17 1     -15
ImDorts of aoods and services                    1 4      104        144      -11 4                    Exports    -SIlmparts
Gross national oroduct                           0.8       3 7        5 3       0 1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaoe If data are missina the diamond will
be incomolete
- 45 -



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997       1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                15
Consumer prices                                     ..      3.8        5.0       9.7      tO
Implicit GDP deflator                             8.3       7.5        8.0      10.5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                     ..    15.1        19.5         .              93    94    95    96    97    go
Current budget balance                                      1.1        2.2                          -  GDP deflator    5CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                                      ..       -1,8         -
TRADE
(UJSS millions)                                 1977      1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..   5,720      25,228    29,496       40,000
Coconut oil                                      ..      381
Sugar                                             ..      71          ..         ..    30.000
Manufactures                                     ..   3,430       21,488    25,866
Total imports (cif)                                ..   6,737       36,355    29,524      20,005
Food                                                     273       1,510     1,667      10,000
Fuel end energy                                         1,249      3,074                    o95
Capital goods                                    ..     114i439              2,4
92   93   94   95   99   97  99
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                               81
Imnort orice index (1995=100)                               81                                       9 Exports      wImports
Terms of traRde (1995=100)                                 100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   3,883     8,065    48,063    43,413       10
Imports of goods and services                   4,755    7,861     53,494    42,561
Resource balance                                -872       204      -5,431       852       c
Net income                                       -141   -1,221       4,681     3,510       2
Net current transfers                            280       573       1,080       435      -      '                  , 97    9
Current account balance                         -753      -444        330      4,797      4                           g
-6
Financing items (net)                            707       386       3,033    -6,156
Changes in net reserves                           46        58      -3,363     1,359      -10
Memo:
Reserves includino aold (USS millions)                               8.918    10 684
Conversion rate (DEC. Iocal/USS)                  7.4      20.6       29.5      40.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997       1998
(IUSS mitlions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            8,183   29,785     45,433    47,818
IBRD                                           403    3,747       4,179      4,311
IDA                                             29        99        195       205                          A:4,311
G: 7,185      B:E205
Total debt service                               663    3,376        4,541     5,166                                   c: 1,563
IBRD                                            43       494        709       654
IDA                                              0         1          3          4                                      0:3,457
Composition of net resource flows                                                                     E
Official grants                                 61       331        188
Official creditors                             262       734        107         -6                                    E: 12,237
Private creditors                              733      -623      2,869       419            F: 18,355  ,
Foreign direct investment                      211       307      1,222
Portfolio equity                                 0         0         73
World Bank program
Commitments                                    318       342         60                 A - IBRD                       E - Silateal
Disbursements                                  104       270        305       301       B- IDA    0 - Oltherm llilateral    F - Prinve
Principal repayments                            14       220        409       389       C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       90        51       -104        -88
Interest payments                               29       275        303       268
Net transfers                                   60      -225       -408       -356
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                                 9/7199
-46 -



