                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 27636-PH

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-25937 SCL-45350)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                       PHILIPPINES

                                         FOR A

                       SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                       June 30, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Philippines Peso (P)
                                  PHP 1.00 = US$ 0.018
                                  US$ 1.00 = 55.93 PHP

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CIDSS                 Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services
COA                   Commission on Audit
CPPR                  Country Portfolio Performance Review
DBCC                  Development Budget Coordination Committee
DBM                   Department of Budget and Management
DEPED                 Department of Education
DO                    Department Order
DPWH                  Department of Public Works and Highways
DSWD                  Department of Social Welfare and Development
GOP                   Government of the Philippines
G-Watch               Philippines Government Watch
ICT                   Information Communication Technology
IMCS                  Instructional Materials Council Secretariat
LGUs                  Local Government Units
MBN                   Minimum Basic Needs
MISS                  Management Information Systems Service
MTDP                  Medium-Term Development Plan
NGAS                  New Government Accounting System
NGOs                  Non-Government Organizations
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department
PAD                   Project Appraisal Document
PFD                   Physical Facities Division
PMR                   Project Management Reports
PTCAs                 Parent Teacher's Community Associations
RA                    Reform Act
SBP                   School Building Program
SBRMS                 School-Based Repair and Maintenance Scheme
SEMP                  Social Expenditure Management Project
SEMP2                 Second Social Expenditure Management Project
SEP                   Social Expenditure Priorities
SIML                  Sector Investment Maintenance Loan
SSD                   Social Sector Department
TEEP                  Third Elementary Education Project
TFEAM                 Task Force for Engineering Assessment and Monitoring


                           Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                         Country Director        Robert V. Pulley, EACPF
                          Sector Manager         Fadia Saadah, EASHD
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Jayshree Balachander, EASHD

                                        PHILIPPINES
                  SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Tables                                                                  35

Project ID: P065113                                                  Project Name: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MGMT
Team Leader: Jayshree Balachander                                    TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MGMT                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-25937; SCL-45350
   Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (71%); Other social services (23%); Tertiary
                            education (4%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Social risk reduction (P); Education for all (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/06/1999                                     Effective: 04/11/2000                04/11/2000
     Appraisal: 10/27/1999                                         MTR: 03/15/2001
      Approval: 02/15/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES/DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND
                                           MANAGEMENT (DBM)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Robert V. Pulley                               Vinay Bhargava
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR:             Jayshree Balachander                           Jayshree Balachander
ICR Primary Author:             Rekha Menon; Lynnette Dela
                                Cruz Perez; Dominic Reyes
                                Aumentado


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Prior to the East Asian Financial Crisis, the Philippines was enjoying favorable economic growth, the
country had a budget surplus and the Peso was stable against the U.S. Dollar. With the crisis, large capital
outflows created a downward pressure on the Peso, and per capita GDP declined by 2.6%. This was
compounded by a drought caused by El-Nino. Government revenues plummeted, constraining public
spending. Government cut spending by 15% by imposing reserves and cash rationing. Government
commitment to social sectors was strong - it allocated 44% of its budget to social sectors, but spending
cuts left little or no funds for operating expenses and capital outlays. Severe shortages in educational
inputs (textbooks, school furniture), dilapidation of schools and backlog in teacher training were
widespread. The fiscal difficulties were compounded by weak budget execution, severe under funding of
essential services, poor monitoring and weak communication links between the central and regional offices.
Delays and wastage in the use of the available limited resources, seriously hampered the provision of basic
services.

The objectives of the project were: (i) to meet the immediate goal of protecting the provision of basic social
services primarily utilized by the poor; and (ii) to promote long term improvements in public expenditure
management in the social sector departments i.e., the Department of Education (DepED) and the
Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD). The Department of Budget and Management
(DBM) and the Commission on Audit (COA) are to provide the oversight.

These objectives responded to critical needs in these sectors. They reflect key priorities identified both in
the Government's Medium Term Development Plan (MTDP) 1998-2003 and the new MTDP 2001-2004 as
well the Bank's 1999 CAS's specific objective of enhancing human development and protecting basic social
services. The project's interventions too were clearly defined to meet both the immediate and long term
sectoral needs. Sector work conducted prior to the preparation of the project had identified, especially in
the education sector, a broad sectoral reform agenda. The project focussed on a small set of priority
interventions for which government agencies' commitment was high and impact was likely to be significant.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no mid-term review conducted, but project components and costs were reviewed. In October
2001, project funds were re-aligned across disbursement categories and were re-allocated to support
Mindanao reconstruction program. In August 2002, project savings were reallocated to increase DSWD
program support. The project's original components however remained unchanged throughout the duration
of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The project's objectives were to be realized through the implementation of two components.

The first, Protection of Basic Social Services (US$105.22 million), provided funds for selected on-going
programs in the education and social welfare departments for the provision of basic social services largely
benefiting the poor. In education (US$80.21 million), this included the provision of inputs for improving
the quality of basic education such as: (a) textbooks and teachers' manuals; (b) construction, repair and
maintenance of classrooms; (c) desks and chairs; and (d) teacher training. In social welfare (US$25.01
million), social assistance for disadvantaged groups was provided through: (a) funding for the
Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services (CIDSS) program which provides for the
minimum basic needs of poor through a demand-driven approach targeted at the poorest municipalities; (b)
covering maintenance and operation costs for centers and institutions (including orphanages and centers for



                                                       - 2 -

the handicapped); and (c) funding for the Assistance Program for Distressed and Disadvantaged
Populations.

The second, Strengthening Management Capacity and Systems in the Social Sectors (US$1.5 million),
sought to strengthen financial management, procurement and information and communication systems in
the two social sector departments (DepED and DSWD) through provision of technical assistance and by
assisting in the development and installation of appropriate systems and providing staff training.

The design was simple and focused, learning from experience in the difficulties in implementation of
previous Bank-funded projects in these sectors (CPPR 1999 and OED review, 1999).

3.4 Revised Components:


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at the entry for this project is rated as highly satisfactory. This rating is based on the
following:

Project concept, objectives and approach: The project concept was sound. It used existing internal
incentive structures within the government to achieve institutional reforms. By ensuring budget support for
key government programs and existing government structures, it was easy to implement. It was simple in
design. It was innovative, using a standard investment lending instrument Sector Investment and
Maintenance Loan (SIML) to provide budget support without introducing any new investment
requirements. The design was based on good sector work, the 1998 Social Expenditure Review and the
1998 Philippines Education Sector Study. The project was not intended to be a one-off project. It was
designed to be series of projects (see 1999 CAS), progressively widening and deepening the reform agenda
in the social sectors. Moreover, the components were well integrated, reinforcing each other thus having a
larger impact (see section 4).

At project design, all Bank funded social sector projects in the country had unsatisfactory ratings and an
OED review had recommended discontinuation of all traditional investment lending to social sectors. Key
implementing issues identified in the 1999 CPPR were weak project management, inadequate capacity for
procurement, lack of capacity for financial management, weak project monitoring, inadequate management
oversight and lack of attention to development impact. The project targeted these institutional reform
issues in DepED and DSWD.

Technical aspects: The project used international best practice approaches to improving procurement,
financial management and information and communications. The project introduced the use of competitive
bidding procedures in the procurement of school supplies and school construction and the use of financial
management as a tool for strategic planning and performance management. Technical assistance was
provided to assist the implementing agencies in designing and implementing their procurement, financial
management, and IT improvement plans.

Poverty reduction and social aspects: The project's objective was to protect basic services for the poor.
Benefit incidence analysis shows that government spending on primary education is pro-poor (Poverty
Assessment, 2001). Provision of inputs to public schools and improving efficiency in public spending in
education, especially at the lower levels, thus, benefitted the poor. The project design coordinated closely
with another ongoing education project Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP) that was already
addressing educational quality concerns in poor provinces. The social welfare component of the project



                                                       - 3 -

was directly aimed at programs for the poor and disadvantaged groups of the population. The project
helped ensure continued provision of these services in the aftermath of the crisis.

Institutional capacity: DepED and DSWD have significant differences in terms of capacity. DSWD is a
small and innovative department with ongoing plans for streamlining operations even before the project
began. DepED is one of the largest government agencies with weak mid-level management. Recognizing
this, the project included a technical assistance component to address key implementation issues, thus
building capacity in procurement, financial management and monitoring in the sector. Implementation of
the project by the organic staff of the implementing agencies help build capacity in these agencies.

Readiness for implementation: The project met all the 1999 CPPR criteria for readiness for
implementation. (see Annex 8 Table 1)

Environment, social safeguards: The project had no discernable negative environmental impacts. Civil
society participation in project implementation and monitoring was high. The project was designed by the
key stakeholders.

Risk assessment: Critical risks that could affect adversely project implementation were accurately assessed
and appropriate risk-alleviating mechanisms introduced in the project design. This included measures like
the inclusion of Parent Teacher Community Associations (PTCAs) and other civil society groups in the
monitoring of the textbook procurement and distribution process helped in building confidence in the
reform process.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project outcome is rated satisfactory.

The project achieved its stated objectives of protecting targeted essential inputs in the social sectors in the
aftermath of the crisis. It also succeeded in laying the foundation for key reforms in these sectors in areas
of financial management, procurement and information systems to meet the longer term goal of improved
budget execution. While the extent of institutional reforms planned under the project as envisioned in the
PAD were quite ambitious, what was achieved under the project is impressive. The project resulted in the
department wide reforms in procurement in DepED; the conceptualization of financial management (FM)
improvement plans and a FM vision in DSWD and DepED and the implementation of the first phase of FM
reforms in DSWD; and, improvements in IT infrastructure, development of IT standards and IT
organization in DSWD and the establishment of BEIS (Basic Education Information System) in DepED.
Institution of reforms in the implementation agencies varied depending on their immediate needs. DepED,
grappling with allegations of corruption and graft in procurement, was clearly more focused on
procurement reforms. DSWD, struggling to manage its operations within a small and shrinking budget
envelope, utilized the technical assistance provided under the project and other reform initiatives within the
government to improve its financial management and IT. Additional achievements of the project include
the inclusion of civil society organizations in the monitoring of DepED procurement and its emphasis on a
principal-led approach to school construction, repair and maintenance. The project also greatly improved
the collaboration between the oversight agencies and the social sector departments.

The project achievements as measured by the key performance indicators listed in the PAD. The first two
are outcome indicators, which are affected by multiple factors (not all directly related to the project),
making causal linkages difficult.



                                                      - 4 -

1. A five percent increase in elementary school cohort survival rate from 65% to 68%. The target was
exceeded as the rate for school year 2002-2003 was 69.4%. It is, however, difficult to attribute
improvements in this indicator to activities directly supported under this project.

2. Improvements in five minimum basic needs (MBN) indicators in barangays assisted under the project:
DSWD targets the interventions and measures the success of its CIDSS program using a minimum basic
needs survey. The survey measures 33 unmet basic human needs (nutrition, maternal and child health,
water and sanitation, etc.) at the family level. Improvements in all 33 MBN indicators and especially the
10 MBN indicators (in terms of percent of families whose needs were met for the specific indicator in each
calendar year) related to access to food and nutrition, health, water and sanitation, shelter and income were
achieved during the project implementation period. These are presented in Annex 1, Table 1A. Although
causal linkages are not possible, the overall improvements in community participation and local
government capacity in meeting community needs promoted through CIDSS, were key to these
improvements. Also, CIDSS workers help educate local communities regarding availability of community
resources other than those provided by CIDSS. CIDSS education programs are jointly implemented with
the local offices of the Departments of Health, Agriculture, Education, etc., building on synergies between
the various programs of these departments.

3. Overall improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of project financed procurement in DepED by
30%. This was to be measured in terms of costs of items procured, quality, timeliness and delivery to end
users. There were significant improvements in terms of cost savings (50% reduction in prices for
textbooks, school furniture and around 35% reduction in school construction costs), quality, timeliness (in
contract processing and delivery to end users) and increased transparency (see Annex 1 Table 1 B). The
project helped ensure that textbooks and school furniture were delivered (compared to little or no deliveries
in the three years prior to the project) and that more classrooms were being built in needy areas.

4. Timely and reliable financial reporting: This was achieved in DSWD, but not in DepED.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Protection of Basic Social Services: This component is rated satisfactory.

A. Education:

(i) School Construction (U$8.5 million):

This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory.

Allocation of new classrooms in the Philippines is based on the Roxas Law (RA7880 Fair and Equitable
Access to Education Act enacted February 20, 1995) which allocates: 50% of new classrooms in areas
where there is evidence of growing number of school-age children, 40% in areas with known shortages, and
10% managed by the Department of Education. The project financed the school building program (SBP)
managed by DepED for CY 1999, 2000 and 2001, with a goal of promoting the use of competitive bidding
procedures in school building procurement.

Prior to the project, procurement for the Government's SBP was handled by the Department of Public
Works and Highways (DPWH) (except for a short stint in 1990-92 when DepED managed the program).
Procurement was conducted through local bidding or force account. The program of works often resulted
in incomplete classrooms which were then later "repaired" to make fully operational.



                                                      - 5 -

Under the project, 1,535 classrooms were constructed or rehabilitated improving on the target amount of
900 classrooms. All contracts valued under US$50,000 (1,266 classrooms), were implemented under the
Principal-Led scheme, a DepED experiment started under the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP),
and institutionalized under SEMP. Under this scheme, school principals issued contracts and conducted
day-to-day project management with DepED TFEAM (Task Force for Engineering Assessment and
Monitoring) school project engineers providing technical assistance. This strengthened school based
management, encouraged community participation and resulted in better construction, quick delivery and
turnover of projects, and an overall savings. The average classroom construction contract cost Php 340,000
(7 x 9 m classroom) compared to the estimated budget of Php 375,000. Contracts valued over US$50,000
were procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. 267 classrooms were built using
NCB under the 1999 and 2000 SBP. Significant gains in time taken from advertisement to completion of
construction were achieved during project implementation (see Annex 1 Table 1 B).

G-Watch (a civil society organization), led a monitoring of the SBP under SEMP with members of DepED,
DPWH and World Bank. The exercise showed that all classrooms constructed under SEMP, especially
those constructed under the Principal-Led scheme, were complete and of good quality, and the procurement
procedures were competitive and transparent compared to those constructed under DPWH and FFCCCII
(Federation of Filipino-Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Inc.). There was evidence of close
supervision by the DepED TFEAM school project engineers. Client satisfaction (local authorities, school
principals and PTCA) was high. (see Annex 8 Table 2 for the findings of the joint monitoring effort)

The project also benefited the remaining 90% of the SBP financed by the government. A standard design
for public school classrooms was developed and an agreement forged between DepED and DPWH on what
constitutes a complete classroom. A Memorandum of Agreement was signed between DPWH and DepED
on the guidelines for coordination and monitoring of DPWH-constructed school buildings. With the use of
the Basic Education Information System (BEIS) (developed during SEMP2 preparation in 2001) schools
with classroom:pupil ratio greater than 1:200 were given priority under the Government's SBP.

(ii) Repairs and Maintenance (US$14.9 million)

This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

Prior to the project, the funds for repair and maintenance of schools were usually included with other
recurrent costs/operating expenses of DepED regional offices, and sometimes DepED divisional offices.
There were no clear guidelines for allocating these funds. Few schools received large amounts for major
construction, and the allocation of these limited funds were not need-based. Moreover, duplication with
new construction was also prevalent.

The project initially provided funds for large repairs and maintenance through regional offices. Problems
in recovering statement of expenditures from regional offices, adoption of procedures ineligible under the
new DepED guidelines for repair and maintenance led to the utilization of only 31.6% of the funds
allocated for large repairs and maintenance. The project discontinued funding for such repairs and funds
allocated under the project were diverted to support a more innovative pilot program of repairs and
maintenance.

In 2001, the project piloted an innovative School-Based Repair and Maintenance Scheme (SBRMS).
Under this scheme, a small repair and maintenance fund (Php 10,000) was provided directly to each school
to develop a culture of regular maintenance and upkeep. In keeping with the principal-led management


                                                     - 6 -

approach (already being pursued under the school building program), this scheme delegated the
responsibility of repair and maintenance to the school level, with the principal in charge of the funds. The
schools were to leverage additional funds from PTCAs (in cash or in the form of labor or materials) and
other community-based sources. A 2002 evaluation of the pilot revealed that the funds provided were used
for repair and maintenance, schools were selected on the basis of need and that there was strong ownership
among school officials and the community for the continued maintenance of school buildings. This scheme
has been institutionalized and currently all schools receive a maintenance fund.

(iii) Desks and Chairs (US$ 9.6 million):

This sub-component is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Since 1986, desks and chairs were procured by regional and divisional offices of DepED limiting the role
of the central office to issuing guidelines, estimates and approving large contracts. In 1996, the
procurement was centralized to facilitate bulk procurement. Contract administration was characterized by
confusion often resulting in overpayment to deliveries that were not accounted for. Expecting the central
office to manage deliveries and distribution of school furniture to over 40,000 schools was not realistic. At
the time of project design, the average price per armchair was Php 600, and for desks was Php 900.

Using competitive bidding procedures, the project succeeded in delivering 754,069 desks and chairs
compared to the target of 450,000. There was also significant reduction in costs (see Annex 1, Table 1 B).

Despite this, implementation of this subcomponent faced several problems. Cost savings through reduction
in price of furniture was sometimes at the expense of the quality of the product (despite restricting the type
of material to wood and steel) - chairs delivered broke easily or were termite infested. There were
significant delays in payments to suppliers due to slow verification and acceptance of delivery vouchers by
the regional offices of DepED.

Concerns regarding these issues were raised continuously during Bank supervision missions. The
recommendation to use focus groups to help develop better specifications for school furniture taking into
consideration pedagogical issues and the school location is yet to be acted on. The benefits of centralized
procurement in terms of prices will need to be balanced with the quality of products and the ease of delivery
of products by local suppliers.

The project also resulted in organizational change within DepED - the Physical Facilities Department
(PFD) with TFEAM were merged into one organic unit responsible for school mapping, civil works,
furniture design, repair and maintenance monitoring. The combined strength of this unit is expected to
improve the ability of DepED to develop standards and designs and to monitor the delivery of school
furniture in the future.

(iv) Textbooks (US$ 44.0 million):

This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory.

In the two years preceding the project, the textbook:pupil ratio was 1:8. The project delivered over 42
million textbooks to schools improving the textbook:pupil ratio to between 1:1 and 1:2 in core subjects. In
addition to ensuring that all schools had enough textbooks, the project improved the procurement and
delivery of textbooks through the introduction of competitive bidding procedures ICB and involving civil
society organizations in the monitoring of textbook delivery. Significant cost savings (over 50% reduction


                                                      - 7 -

in costs) were realized through increased competition (see Annex 1 Table 1 B). Better specifications and
random monitoring at printing presses and warehouses and at delivery points by DepED inspectors
improved the physical quality of textbooks (binding, paper, etc.).

Prior to the textbook privatization law of 1995, the government had a monopoly in textbook production.
DepED was in charge of the production and delivery of textbooks. The average price of textbooks was
around P30. With the introduction of the textbook privatization law, private enterprises (after a two year
transition period) were given the responsibility for producing textbooks for the public education system. A
list of approved textbooks for public schools was developed after evaluation and accreditation of the books
and the publishers (Departmental Order (D.O.) 35). Accusations of graft and corruption in procurement
of textbooks were rampant, and the average price of textbooks rose to P70 for elementary and P120 for
high school (D.O. 35 series of 2000). The physical quality of textbooks was low.

While the project resulted in significant reductions in cost and improvements in quality of textbooks it also
revealed problems in textbook development, procurement and distribution. One problem was that multiple
procurement under several donor funded projects as well as at the local level resulted in multiple textbooks
being delivered for a single grade/subject often in the same classroom. The issue of multiple procurement
was resolved by joint procurement of textbooks irrespective of funding source and the establishment of a
procurement services unit in DepED. DepED also rescinded the local list of textbooks. To deal with
existing stocks of multiple textbooks in classrooms and overstock in some schools and understocks in
others, DepED is currently conducting a one-off textbook exchange program to bring a more equitable
distribution of the available textbooks. The other problem was related to manuscript review and quality.
To deal with upstream quality issues and downstream procurement and distribution issues identified during
project implementation, DepED has recently introduced a textbook policy to deal with this issue.

(v) Teacher Training (US$ 3.2 million):

This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory.

The component was to assist the government in developing new and focused in-service training. Few such
training sessions were started under the component but in reality much of the funding was used for ongoing
in-service training conducted at central, regional and divisional levels. 17,439 teachers and school officials
were trained under this component in 1999 and 2000. Difficulties in segregating training expenses from
other operational expenses, since voucher claims were for supplies, transportation and travelling expenses
and could not be clearly distinguished as being related to training, resulted in only half the funds allocated
for this component being used. Funding of this component was discontinued and the remaining funds were
used for other activities under the project.

B. Social Welfare Programs:

The three programs of the DSWD that were identified for support under the project were selected on the
basis of their ability to reach the poorest and most vulnerable populations. These include:

(i) Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services (CIDSS) program (US$ 13.0 million):

This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

The CIDSS program funds projects and interventions in poor municipalities and poor urban communities.
Under this program, in each municipality, the three poorest barangays are selected. The poor and


                                                      - 8 -

disadvantaged populations in the barangays are identified using MBN indicators and funds are provided to
communities for projects designed to address the most pressing concerns of these populations. The goal of
the program is to empower families and communities to work with community leaders and organizations to
improve the quality of life in their communities. The aim was to eventually institutionalize the CIDSS
strategy into local development planning.

A review of CIDSS program (Dichter, 2002) revealed that the program has a good reputation among
members of the civil society and government. The report recommended: (i) integrating CIDSS programs
within barangay development plans; (ii) better monitoring; and (iii) specialized engineering support in the
design and monitoring of CIDSS water projects. Much of these were addressed during project
implementation.

This review and others led to a reassessment of the CIDSS program. Recognizing that improving the
welfare of poor communities would be more sustainable than improving welfare of selected families,
DSWD in 2003, began implementing KALAHI-CIDSS. This is a community-based program (compared to
the family-based CIDSS program) and targets poor provinces based on a participatory social analysis
(compared to using MBN surveys). CIDSS programs are being phased out and the project funded ongoing
programs in the final years of implementation. The DSWD and Bank teams for SEMP and
KALAHI-CIDSS projects also worked closely to integrate CIDSS with the new KALAHI-CIDSS
approach thus reducing any overlap between the two programs.

The physical accomplishments of the CIDSS program between 1999-2003 are given in the following table:

Physical Accomplishments of CIDSS Program, 1999-2003:
                                                         Target*     Delivered
1. No. of Municipalities                                     1,000      809
2. No. of Projects                                           3,000      2,463
3. No. of Families Served                                  300,000     218,046
Note: CIDSS programs are being phased out with the introduction of KALAHI-CIDSS

The physical accomplishments of the program were slightly lower than targeted, with the phasing out of the
family-based CIDSS program. The success of KALAHI-CIDSS in areas previously covered by CIDSS,
where local governments and communities were able to build on the strategies developed/implemented
under CIDSS, provides evidence of the institutionalization of CIDSS in local development planning.

(ii) Centers and Institutions including Orphanages and Centers for the Handicapped (US$ 8.6 million) and
(iii) Assistance Program for Distressed and Disadvantaged Populations (US$ 3.4 million):

These sub-components are rated satisfactory.

DSWD administers residential care facilities for abused women and children, substance abusers, mentally
ill, elderly and persons with disabilities, as well as community-based centers. Community-based centers
provide preventive and rehabilitative services for children, youth, persons with disabilities, senior citizens
and victims of disasters and natural calamities. The project implementation period saw an increase in the
number of beneficiaries served as DSWD strengthened its community-based services as an alternative to its
residential care services. The physical accomplishments of the DSWD's protective services are given in the
following table:




                                                          - 9 -

DSWD Physical Accomplishments in Protective Services 1999-2003:
                                                     Target*     Delivered
Facilities Operated                                      150        71**
Persons from Disadvantaged and Distressed
Populations Assisted                                  1,000,000   1,182,992
Notes:
* in PAD
** Most centers have been devolved to local government units

A review of these programs (Hoffman, 2002) recommended areas for improvement in DSWD management
of centers and institutions. Some of these recommendations include, adopting a "program supervision"
model for residential care (supervision of all centers not just those operated directly by DSWD), increased
use of volunteers at residential centers, reforms to the licensing and accreditation of residential centers
operated by NGOs, and increased use of NGOs to operate centers and institutions (transferring ownership).
Some recommendations including increased use of volunteers as house parents in centers, development of
improved standards for licensing and accreditation of all residential center operators have been
implemented. A Task Force is reviewing the condition and performance of the various centers, to
formulate long-term policy recommendations, including, where appropriate, the closure of centers. In order
to increase contributions from non-government sources, a number of opportunities, including: (a) increased
local cost sharing by Local Government Units (LGUs); (b) contiguous LGUs providing joint support for
regional centers; (c) contracting NGOs to manage centers; and (d) funding for repair and rehabilitation of
centers are being examined.

Component 2: Strengthening Management Capacity and Systems in the Social Sectors

This component is rated satisfactory.

The project provided technical assistance under this component to support the institutional reform program
of the two social sector departments, DepED and DSWD, by strengthening their procurement, financial and
information systems management in an effort to improve performance, transparency and efficiency. The
technical assistance was provided by KPMG Consulting and Crown Agents.

The main objectives of the institutional reform program in the social sectors are to: (i) develop capacity
and skills in financial management, procurement and Information Communications and Technology; (ii)
restructure organization roles and functions to meet institutional needs, (iii) redesign processes and systems
to improve efficiency; and (iv) improve performance management policies and systems.

The project helped build high-level commitment and collaboration among oversight and implementing
departments of the Government for reform. DBM which led the formulation of strategy and policy for
Government-wide reform, worked closely with the social sector agencies, to pilot the implementation of
new laws. This also influenced the formulation the government-wide procurement reform act (RA 9184).
The Bank's Country Financial Accountability Assessment Team has endorsed the project led initiatives in
FM reform as a best practice approach for financial management reform in Government Departments in the
Philippines.

Financial Management:

This sub-component is rated satisfactory.



                                                      - 10 -

The scope of the Financial Management (FM) improvement program planned under the project included the
following: (i) development of an FM vision and organizational structure to implement the chosen vision;
(ii) automation of accounting processes using a computerized accounting system; and (iii) design and
implement a financial and performance management system.

The major accomplishment of the project was the shift in the emphasis of financial management from a
transaction orientation to that of strategic planning and performance management. Prior to the project,
accounting in the Philippines was process oriented with a cumbersome accounting system installed in 1956.
A broad framework for financial management, performance reporting and organizational changes to
implement the Government's FM vision was developed under the project. Training requirements were
identified and skills development achieved. However, the redeployment of accounting and budgeting staff
to carry out financial and risk analysis functions, identified under the project, is yet to be implemented.
Changes in the government accounting systems and the significant delay in the deployment of the software
for the New Government Accounting System (NGAS) hampered the automation of accounting processes.
In DSWD, an interim system using an excel spread sheet based system was designed and used. The NGAS
software has been deployed in DSWD. Training in using the interim computerized accounting system,
provided under the project, assisted the DSWD staff in transitioning to this system. DepED is still to
complete the automation of its accounting processes.

Procurement:

This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

Technical assistance provided under the project was used to both assist the staff of DepED with their
procurement needs and to achieve improvements in existing systems and procedures for asset management
and procurement in DSWD and DepED. Much of the assistance was concentrated in DepED and the
impact of the technical assistance is clearly evident from the achievements described under component 1 A
in this section and illustrated in Annex 1 Table 1 B. The technical assistance also provided a much-needed
impetus to the government for developing tools to improve procurements systems. The main government
initiative carried out until now has been the issuance of Procurement Reform Act RA 9184, under the
supervision of DBM. The RA 9184 now provides to all government agencies a solid foundation on which
they can develop their own procurement systems.

The key procurement improvement initiative in DepED under the project was the establishment of a
procurement services unit, responsible for all procurement activities of the department. Several
documentation including a procurement reference handbook, a procurement improvement schedule (action
plan), the definition of objectives and policy and of tasks & functions of Procurement Service & links to
other units, development of a generic annual procurement plan and testing the use of e-bid bulletin board at
DBM, steps identified under Phase I of the procurement reforms, were completed under the project.

There is very little procurement conducted by DSWD. It has established a Procurement Services Unit to
manage its procurement.

Information Technology:

This sub-component is rated satisfactory.




                                                      - 11 -

The Information Technology Improvement program under the project was to: (i) provide support for IT
infrastructure improvement; (ii) assist in development of IT standards; and (iii) provide recommendations
for IT organization and governance. These objectives were realized in DSWD. Here, IT standards were
developed and adopted department-wide. The Management Information System (MIS) organizational
structure for DSWD, which is aligned with the Department's Rationalization and Streamlining Plan was
approved and a Management Information Systems Service (MISS) was established. These objectives were
not realized in DepED and are expected to be completed under SEMP2. The installation of a central local
area network (LAN) (funded under TEEP) is currently ongoing and the IT group for handling hardware
and communications and a MIS group to focus on databases and applications are yet to be established.
The Basic Education Information System was established in DepED. Using a color coding mechanism, this
system tracks resource allocation to schools in terms of school furniture, classrooms, teachers etc.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return was not calculated for the project at the time of appraisal, nor was it calculated
at closure.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A partial financial rate of return was calculated for the project at appraisal. It estimated that a 40%
reduction in the price of textbooks would increase available resources by 67% (1/(1-0.4)) or US$29.5
million, yielding a return of 27% on US$107 million project investment. This was re-calculated after
project closing. In terms of cost savings alone, the 50% reduction in price of textbooks, the average of
35% reduction in the cost of school building construction, the average of 50% reduction in the price of
school furniture together increased available resources to 39.5 million, yielding a return of 33% on
US$119.81 million project investment. This, of course, does not include savings on textbooks, school
furniture and school construction funded through other sources.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As shown above, the greatest achievement of the project has been its impact on institution building. The
project succeeded in assisting the two social sector departments establish plans for significant reforms in
procurement, financial management and information technology. These plans were developed in
conjunction with the staff of these departments. Much of what was planned in first phase of the reform
program has been implemented in these departments. Organizational changes instituted include the
establishment of new units to perform function of procurement in DepED and information technology needs
in DSWD as well as merger of units to facilitate better monitoring of services delivered. The project both
informed government-wide reforms such as the procurement act RA9184 and positioned the social sector
departments to reap the most benefits from these reforms.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no factors outside the control of government or implementing agency that affected the
implementation and outcome of this project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Philippines Government has shown high level commitment to the reforms initiated under this project.
In particular, the two oversight agencies, DBM and COA, are themselves involved in spearheading the
implementation of government-wide improvements in public expenditure management and financial
management and reporting respectively. Government ownership of these broader reform initiatives, which
were clearly aligned to the objectives of the project, and the direct involvement of these agencies in the
implementation of this project, greatly helped project implementation. In addition, high level commitment



                                                     - 12 -

to these reforms among the management of the social sector departments targeted under the project, despite
changes in management in the implementing agencies, as noted below, also helped project implementation.

The four years of project implementation saw continuous changes in the management of the implementing
agencies, DSWD and DepED - three secretaries and three undersecretaries respectively in the four year
period. While this did cause some delay in implementation, as new management familiarized themselves
with the project, the continued and strengthened commitment for reforms with each change in management
was key for the project. The DBM management which was directly involved in the preparation of the
project, remained unchanged throughout project implementation, which helped ensure that project activities
continued as planned despite management changes in the implementation agencies.

On the other hand, project implementation suffered because of the decision by COA to introduce a
government-wide new computerized accounting system, NGAS, halfway through project implementation
and the significant delays in the deployment of the related software. When the project was designed, it was
to assist the two implementing agencies in the installation and functioning of a computerized accounting
system which has been developed as a pilot in DSWD by COA. However, in 2001, COA decided to
overhaul this system and in 2002, it developed in-house a new system NGAS.          The software for this
system was only available for installation by end-2003 and has only recently been installed in DSWD and
is being installed in DepED, delaying the automation of accounting processes (a key activity planned under
the project to improve financial reporting) in these departments.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Two issues subject to implementing agency control affected the implementation of the project.

School Furniture Design and Materials: School furniture procurement encountered several problems
some of which still require attention of DepED, including the development of appropriate designs of desks
and chairs for different grades and the identification of suitable material by location of school. DepED is
currently trying to address these problems.

Delays in Payment to Suppliers: Delays in verification of deliveries and acceptance of delivery vouchers
led to considerable delays in payments to suppliers of desks and chairs and textbooks throughout the
project. DepED has recognized the need for clearer lines of accountability in the administration of the
delivery of these materials and recent experience with the delivery of textbooks under SEMP2 indicates
clear improvement in this area.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Cost savings from successful implementation of competitive bidding procedures helped the Government
buy nearly twice as many textbooks, build 635 more classrooms and purchase 304,000 more pieces of
school furniture than planned. In addition, in August 2002, about US$15 million savings from the DepED
components were reallocated to DSWD partly to support the Mindanao Reconstruction Program (US$5.8
million). (see August 2002, Letter to Government). Since these Mindanao rehabilitation activities were
supported through DSWD's centers, these programs were within the scope of the original project
components and objectives. As such, the only amendment to the loan agreement was a reallocation of loan
proceeds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project gains are highly likely to be sustained for a long time.



                                                     - 13 -

The institutional reforms supported under the project have laid the foundation for improved planning,
procurement and financial management in the two social sector departments. The technical assistance
provided under the project identified a detailed improvement program for procurement, financial
management and information technology. It should, however, be noted that the project supported the
implementation of the first phase of these improvements and a significant reform agenda remains. The
Government will require continued assistance in the implementation of these improvements in the coming
years. The project was envisioned from the start as the first in a series of projects (CAS, 1999) aimed at
progressively widening and deepening the reform agenda. A follow-up project (SEMP2) is already under
implementation.

The organization structure for the project was embedded in the organizational structure of the implementing
agencies. The project was implemented by the staff of organic units of the implementing agencies as part
of their regular operations. The staff in implementing agencies were provided on-the-job training to
implement the efficient and transparent procurement and financial management processes initiated under
the project. For instance, the DepED TFEAM, PFD and Instructional Materials Council Secretariat
(IMCS) staff have two or more years of experience in implementing the changes in the procurement
processes. The financial management staff in DSWD, which piloted the computerized accounting system
(which has recently be replaced by NGAS), have already gained experience in implementing a new and
improved computerized accounting system. In addition, the improvements supported under the project have
become institutionalized and are now part of the normal working practices of these departments. In the
education sector, the principal-led management approach to classroom construction and maintenance of
school buildings has become the norm. Community and civil society participation in textbook procurement
and delivery, monitoring of the school building program, its support to the maintenance of schools have
also become standard practice in DepED.

The only concern is the fiscal situation (especially revenue mobilization) in the country. The Philippines
has achieved reasonable economic growth (4 percent per annum) in the past two years (Philippines
Development Policy Update, 2003) and Government remains committed to funding priority social
programs. However, the country's cash flow situation needs to improve as does the government's revenue
collection. The Government which concentrated in the early part of the last decade on public expenditure
management has initiated measures to improve revenue collection. Continuing and sustaining the gains in
government revenue mobilization while containing recurrent expenditures, will be necessary to ensure
availability of resources to meet the priority needs in the social sectors and thus ensure the long run
sustainability of project achievements.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project funded priority items in the government's appropriations for the two social sector departments.
Since these items were already budgeted for in the government's own appropriations, it is clear that the
government is committed to funding these items. Moreover, the project was implemented by staff of the
existing organic units of the implementing agencies as part of their regular functions and reforms initiated
under the project are already part of the regular operations of these social sector departments. Hence, no
transition arrangements are needed as project activities are fully embedded in the government's program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory and was highly
appreciated by the Borrower. The project was timely and was based on good sector work (Social


                                                     - 14 -

Expenditure Priorities, 1998). In fact, it was this sector work that led to the specific request for the Project
from the Government (especially the DBM) to provide budget support in return for reforms (see letter from
Government - December 2, 1998). The quality of entry was highly satisfactory (see section 3.5).

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank supervised the project twice a year and provided continuous support from its field-based
operational services team. The quality of the supervision was satisfactory. The Borrower noted that the
supervision team brought with them a strong understanding of GOP issues and that review missions helped
support the Government in tackling many of the issues that arose during project implementation. The
operational services team (operations officer, procurement specialist, financial management specialist, and
disbursement officer) based in the Bank's office in Manila provided continuous supervision support and
their knowledge of GOP issues were crucial to providing appropriate assistance when needed. The
bi-yearly supervision mission team composition included both sector specialists and institutional reform
specialists as was appropriate for such a project. Supervision ratings were realistic. Since the progress
reports from the government were usually in the form of loose sheets, provided twice a year during
supervision missions, the clear and concise Bank's supervision mission reports (in addition to the
Government's final report) helped a great deal in tracing the progress in project activities, the issues faced,
etc. The Bank team worked closely with and through their counterparts in DBM to ensure the "shared
vision" and commitment to reforms in implementing agencies were sustained despite changes in
administration.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank Task Team Leader remained unchanged through
preparation and supervision which greatly helped in the consistent monitoring of project actions. Bank
responses to project issues were appropriate and timely.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government's performance during project preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. The project
design was the result of a direct government request for an investment cum program loan to meet both its
resource needs and assist in improving public expenditure management. The leadership and vision
provided by DBM ensured that the project design was most appropriate to meet GOP's needs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government of Philippines was not only very receptive to introducing the reforms supported under the
project, but in fact had requested project assistance specifically for this purpose. The key role of DBM and
COA as oversight agencies for the project helped ensure that the reforms supported under the project were
consistent with government-wide reforms. Improved relationship between key staff of the implementing
agencies and their counterparts in DBM helped in quick resolution of issues and problems. Lack of
adequate monitoring and evaluation was a key weakness of the project leading to a failure to capitalize on
lessons learned, success factors and assess inputs vis-a-vis desired outcomes. Project reporting focused on
expenditures and input indicators and not on project impact on outcomes. Reporting on project progress
was done only during Bank supervision - PMRs (project management report) and semi-annual reports, as
agreed to in the Loan Agreement, were never provided to the Bank. Project audits were conducted on
schedule.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
There were two implementing agencies for the project: DepED and DSWD. DepED is one of the largest
government departments with weak management capacity at the mid level. DepED management was very
open to the changes initiated under the reforms. It advocated the use of civil society organizations in the


                                                     - 15 -

delivery of its services which improved civil society confidence in the reform process and assisted in
protecting the Department's image when unsubstantiated accusations of corruption and graft were reported
in local newspapers by parties who stood to lose from the transparent processes initiated under the reforms.
The implementation of the project by the staff of the organic units with the Department built ownership for
the project. Delays in payments to suppliers of textbooks and desks and chairs did hamper project
implementation. DSWD is a small progressive department with an established reputation of being reform
minded. Improved coordination between the various units within DSWD - planning, operations and finance
- helped it achieve its project objectives. As noted above, while constant turnover in senior management in
the implementing agencies did not hamper progress in the reforms, it did slow project implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory. The commitment to the reforms and ownership
of the project was high within the oversight and implementing agencies.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be learned from the successful implementation of this project.

There are key elements of the design of this project that provide very important lessons. It used
government processes and internal incentives to achieve success in implementing institutional reforms.
Here, implementing agencies were assured budget support for key government social sector programs in
lieu of institutional reforms. The project design was simple and easy to implement. The embedding of the
project management offices within the organic structure of the implementing agencies ensured
institutionalization of the reforms initiated into the agency's own processes and obliterated the need for
transition arrangements to regular operations as is often required for investment projects.

The project also provides lessons about the key elements for the success of a reform program. These
include:

    (i) Shared vision of institutional reforms and high level commitment and strong ownership of reforms
    among key policy makers: There was strong commitment from management of the implementation
    agencies and ownership for the reforms within the departments. This permeated to the lower levels of
    the department - a sign that change management was taking place.

    (ii) Strong inter-agency cooperation: Strong cooperation between the oversight agencies and the
    implementing department also helped in the success of the project. Prior to project implementation,
    there were some signs of distrust among the line departments and the oversight agencies. Working
    together during the project implementation through a joint steering committee helped create an
    understanding of the various constraints faced by the various agencies in performing their tasks.
    Regular meetings to discuss and solve these problems led to a stronger cooperation between these
    agencies. It in turn helped the oversight agencies identify champions for government-wide reform such
    as DepED for procurement reform and DSWD for FM/IT reform.

    (iii) Alignment of objectives of the project with the goals of the agencies involved: In 1999, DBM
    which is responsible for managing the budget, public sector compensation policy and organizational
    management was initiating a government-wide public expenditure management improvement program
    at the time the project design was developed. At the same time, COA which issues accounting rules
    and regulation in addition to conducting financial audit was beginning to conduct value for money
    audits and working with civil society groups on participatory audits. The focus of these two agencies



                                                       - 16 -

    were improvements in financial management and reporting, increased accountability and efficiency in
    budget execution, and improved public sector performance in all government agencies and departments
    were clearly aligned with the objective of the project.

    (iv) Civil society and community involvement: Civil society and community involvement through the
    joint monitoring of the school building program, the increased role of PTCAs in the rehabilitation of
    schools, the civil society monitoring of the delivery of textbooks was crucial in improving civil society
    opinions about the government processes. Prior to the project, allegations of graft and corruption in
    procurement in the social sectors had created a sense of distrust among civil society.

Another important lesson learned is that institutional reform is a long term process and needs to be
accompanied by change management. The institutional reforms envisioned at the start of the project were
very ambitious for a three year project. The decision to phase these reforms and to ensure that these
reforms are not enforced top-down, but are instituted through effective change management at all levels
within departments and between central departments and regional and divisional offices, while slowing the
progress, ensured the sustainability of these reforms.

Much of the reforms initiated under the project were done at the central level except for the principal-led
management of construction and repairs and maintenance. Sequencing of reforms is however crucial to its
success. Strengthening central departments was the first step in these reforms. Subsequent steps need to
be taken to ensure that regional and division offices of the agencies benefit from these reforms.

Under the project, much of the procurement was centralized. While large gains in cost savings were
realized, there are potential gains in efficiency that could be achieved through regional procurement of
school furniture, for example. The subsequent stages of procurement reform would need to test the
efficiency gains of decentralizing some of the procurement.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Below is an extract of the Borrower's ICR. The full document can be found in the project files. The
comments of the implementing agencies were consolidated by DBM in the Borrower's ICR.

Background:

The implementation of the First Social Expenditure Management Project (SEMP1) in February 2000
kicked off against a backdrop of long standing institutional constraints which was hampering the efficient
delivery of social services. This included unpredictable budget releases in the aftermath of the East Asian
crisis, imposition of budgetary reserves or spending cuts on agency programs and cash rationing
compounded by weaknesses in social sector department to procure, manage and report on the status of
financial resources. Juxtaposed to this were reports on procurement scams and corruption related to supply
of critical inputs like textbooks and medicines.

Hence, the challenge for the government was to seek an investment cum program type of loan which would
accomplish the following:

        Protect expenditures for key social services from budgetary cuts by providing a concessional
         source of funds for existing programs in the budget; and




                                                       - 17 -

        To improve governance and service delivery through improved procurement and financial
         management in social sector departments.

The loan would finance the deficit, but not increase pressure on budgetary resources. It would not require
new investment requirements for which agency budgets had to be set aside. It would also provide DBM
and COA a testing and learning ground for the development of new procurement and financial management
systems which could be later mainstreamed. Since the loan would finance regular budget items, the focus
of the reforms was on strengthening organic systems and personnel in implementing agencies. The short
loan processing time (compared to program loans) was an added advantage. In November 1999, the
Development Budget Coordination Committee (DBCC) approved the proposal for the US$100 million
SEMP1 on the strength of the above innovative and reform features.

Project Impact:

As SEMP1 completes, the foundations for institutional strengthening are in place for procurement with the
passage of RA 9184 (the Government Procurement Reform Act). Advocacy and procurement training,
and the professionalization of the procurement function in government is ongoing. In financial
management, the Commission on Audit is in its second year of implementation of the NGAS and has
initiated the E-NGAS roll-out to agencies. Public expenditure management reforms have been initiated in
both oversight and implementing agencies.

SEMP provided support in the areas of procurement, financial management and public expenditure
management reforms. The implementing agencies served as case studies for oversight agencies to review
and analyze systemic problems and issues and contributed to a stronger understanding of the
institutionalization of public sector reform. The project provided the experience of working with a small
(DSWD) and a large department (DepED) and with two to three sets of department heads and senior
officials who each pushed the reform programs further during their tenures. Working with the
departments' organic systems and personnel provided greater understanding and strengthened ownership of
project objectives by implementing and oversight agencies. The involvement of DBM and linkage with
COA provided continuity and paved the way for sustaining and institutionalizing these reforms. Lessons
from project decisions and issues helped craft the procurement law and identified champions to shepherd
the law through Congress.

Where system changes were appropriate to desired outcomes of fiscal discipline, operational and allocative
efficiency and strengthening accountabilities, these were incorporated into implementation arrangements for
SEMP. These include identifying improvements in agency internal control mechanism, notably
procurement and distribution functions to reduce inefficiencies; the improvement of information systems
through ICT thus strengthening planning and budget linkages; adoption of more efficient and transparent
procurement system and procedures; and civil society participation in monitoring, strengthening
accountability mechanisms, procurement processes, and delivery systems for educational resources. World
Bank assistance through both supervision missions and technical assistance helped this process.

The policy reforms supported under the project strengthened GOP public expenditure management and
improve social sector service delivery systems. Ownership of the project was strong within the
implementing agencies as project deliverables were not disparate activities or outputs from the participants'
regular or organic mandate within the Philippine bureaucracy; rather they were the focus of capacity
building. Implementation arrangements were strongly rooted on actual organizational accountabilities.
The reforms were strongly supported by department managers at the highest levels and by DBM.




                                                    - 18 -

The project improved equity in access to public services for 30% of the poorest and vulnerable groups
through the CIDSS program of DSWD. CIDSS aims to empower the poor to participate in planning and
monitoring the delivery of services that respond to their own minimum basic needs (MBNs). Further
improvements in the CIDSS approach recommended by the project eventually led the maturation of the
CIDSS into Kalahi-CIDSS. The project also ensured support for the operation and maintenance of Centers
and Institutions providing center and program-based services to the elderly, disabled, victims of disasters,
and other marginalized and disadvantaged sectors of society. Under SEMP1, between 1999 and 2003, the
DSWD through CIDSS reached 809 municipalities through 2,463 projects and benefiting an average
127,013 families a year. It covered an additional 36 special poverty groups including the Indigenous
People in Mindanao especially the (Badjao families) serving 1,033 families. It supported the operation of
149 residential and community-based centers as planned and developed options for devolving these to local
government units, and non-government organizations.

In education, SEMP raised the textbook/pupil ratio at the elementary level to 1:1 in the core subjects in all
grades except grade 3 and similarly, at the secondary level, to 1:1 in the first and second years and slightly
lower in the last two years. This compares with the textbook/pupil ratio of 1:7 to 1:12, respectively before
SEMP implementation. Textbooks in core subjects procured under the project exceeded the 25 million
originally targeted. Improvements in the planning, content and distribution of the textbooks as noted by
curriculum textbooks experts and by COA are still needed. The project also financed the provision of
754,069 desks and chairs (compared to the targeted 450,000), the construction of some 1,535 classrooms
(against the 900 targeted), and repaired 25,882 classrooms (versus the 26,000 targeted). The project
produced inroads in school-based management by providing an annual Php 10,000 fund to elementary
schools for minor repairs under the School-Based Repair and Maintenance System and through the
principal-led school building construction. The management of 10% of annual classroom construction by
DepED also ensured proper targeting of schools with acute shortages. Cost savings were realized in the
textbook and furniture procurement and DepED managed classroom construction projects, be it
principal-led or through private contractors.

Performance of Bank team:

The Bank supervision teams brought with them a strong understanding of the GOP issues. The finding
from the Country Procurement Assessment Review, the Country Financial Accountability Assessment, the
Public Expenditure Review, and other technical assistance studies during SEMP implementation, enhanced
the quality of policy development and the implementation of system reforms. Importantly, World Bank
involvement in procurement reforms protected the government against vested interests.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
A 5% increase in elementary school cohort      68%                           69.47% in SY 2002-03
survival rate from 65 to 68
Improvements in 5 minimum basic needs                                        Significant reduction registered in the unmet
indicators in barangays assisted under the                                   MBN of the targeted CIDSS barangays )see
project                                                                      table 1 A below.
An overall improvement in the efficiency and                                 See table 1 B below.
effectiveness of project financed
procurement by at least 30% (cost of items
procured, quality, timeliness, and delivery to
end users
Timely and reliable financial reporting.                                     Achieved in DSWD, yet to be achieved in
                                                                             DepED - see section 4.1 and 4.2 for details.
.
                                               .




                                                          - 20 -

Table 1 A: Improvement in ten minimum basic indicators in CIDSS assisted barangays:


NO.                      MBNINDICATORS                            1999    2000   2001   2002   2003  AVERAGE
                                                                                                     REDUCTION


 2 No severely and moderately underweight children under 5
   years old                                                       61.47  55.98  47.97  63.54  68.30   59.45



 3 Pregnant and lactating mothers provided with iron and iodine
   supplements                                                     61.31  58.82  50.88  66.66  65.68   60.67



 4 Infants exclusively breastfeed for at least 4 months            64.34  63.34  57.19  68.50  66.02   63.88



13 Family with access to potable water (faucet/deep well) within
   250 meters (10 min. walk)                                       59.89  51.00  40.76  63.26  72.17   57.42



14 Family with sanitary toilet (water-sealed, antipolo, flush)     58.68  48.41  40.66  59.64  77.24   56.93



17 Housing durable for at least five (5) years                     61.49  46.51  27.22  47.11  54.21   47.31



22 Head of the family employed                                     63.01  44.22  28.00  52.41  54.52   48.43



23 Others member of the family 15 years and above employed         74.62  30.19  30.84  49.25  46.00   46.18



24 Family with income above subsistence threshold level            64.34  30.84  17.08  35.51  44.00   38.35


TOTALAVERAGEMBNREDUCTION                                                                               53.18




                                                                - 21 -

Table1B: ImprovementsinprojectfinancedprocurementinDepED:

                                  AverageCost(inPesos)                 Timeliness
                                                                                     Deliverytoend
    Itemsprocured                                                   Advertisementto                 Quality
                     Beforeproject                                                       users
                                       Actual         %change       issuanceofnotice
                     intervention
                                                                       to proceed
Textbooks:                                                                                          Good-
Elementary                70             35              -50                                       quality of
                                                                          228             234      paperand
HighSchool               120             60              -50                                        binding
                                                                                                   improved

School Furniture:
Desks                    900           450-700       (-50) to (-22)       131             256       Mixed
Chairs                   600           240-350       (-77) to (-42)

SchoolBuildings:
NationalCompetitive  6,428persqm    3,939 per sqm        -39        202(43.4%fewer     305(15.3%   Complete-
Bidding                                                             daysthanprevious fewerdaysthan  painted
                                                                       year's batch) previousyear's   with
                                                                                         batch)     electrical
                                                                                                   and ceiling
Principal Led        6,428persqm    4,319 per sqm        -32                74             91      Complete-
                                                                                                    painted
                                                                                                      with
                                                                                                    electrical
                                                                                                   and ceiling




                                                  - 22 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
900 classrooms completed to specifications     Revised target to 800 classrooms due to     1,535 classrooms completed
                                               lower budget appropriation in FY2000.
26,000 school buildings repaired/rehabilitated Revised target of 15,000 school buildings   25,882 school sites
                                               being repaired due to the delayed
                                               implementation of the School-based Repair
                                               and Maintenance Scheme
45,000 desks and chairs distributed to         45,000 desks and chairs,                    754,069 desks and chairs delivered.
identified schools
25 million textbooks distributed to elementary 25 million textbooks distributed.           42 million textbooks delivered and distributed
and secondary schools
5,000 teachers trained                         5,000 teachers trained.                     17,439 teachers and school officials trained
Basic social services in 1,000 poorest         Basic social services in 1,000 poorest      809 poor municipalities were served through
municipalities in the country through 3,000    municipalities in the country through 3,000 2,463 projects for 218,046 beneficiary
projects for 300,000 beneficiary families      projects for 300,000 beneficiary families   families during the project period.
provided.                                      provided.
150 residential and community-based centers                                                71 residential and community-based centers
for facilities operated.                                                                   for facilities operated. DSWD strengthened
                                                                                           its community-based programs as an
                                                                                           alternative strategy to its center-based
                                                                                           services. The number of DSWD operated
                                                                                           centers have declined due to devolution of
                                                                                           the management to local governments,


1 million persons belonging to disadvantaged                                               From 1999-2003, the DSWD extended
and distressed populations assisted.                                                       services to 1,182,992 beneficiaries, broken
                                                                                           down as follows a) children - 243765; b)
                                                                                           youth - 152,046; c) families - 538,503; d)
                                                                                           women - 178,541; e) older persons - 31,658;
                                                                                           and f) persons with disabilities - 38,479


Department-wide adoption of improved                                                       Significant improvement in procurement
procurement practices.                                                                     practices within DepED and DSWD. Unified
                                                                                           Procurement Unit within DepED created


Operation of a simplified and improved                                                     Well-managed financial management system
financial management system.                                                               in DSWD; migration E-NGAS started under
                                                                                           the project. Improvements in DepED still to
                                                                                           be achieved.


Establishment of an effective information and                                              Computerized information system linking
communications network between the central                                                 central and regional offices was not achieved.
and regional offices.

1 End of project




                                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Component 1: Protection of basic social services:
A. Education (US$80.21 million)
School Construction                                           8.51            6.30           0.75
Repairs and Maintenance                                      14.90          11.50            0.77
Desks and Chairs                                              9.60            6.75           0.69
Textbooks                                                    44.00          29.50            0.67
Teacher's Training                                            3.20            1.36           0.41
B. Social Welfare Programs (US$25.01 million)
Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services     13.01          34.40            2.56
(CIDSS)
Maintenance and Operation of Centers and Institutions         8.60          15.25            1.75
Assistance Programs for Distressed & Disadvantaged            3.40          11.75            3.17
Populations
Component 2: Strengthening Management Capacity and            1.50            2.00           2.46
Systems in the Social Services

Total Baseline Cost                                         106.72         118.81
                         Total Project Costs                106.72         118.81
                                         Front-end fee        1.00            1.00
                  Total Financing Required                  107.72         119.81


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             8.49         15.38         0.00        23.87
                                  (0.00)            (7.64)      (13.84)        (0.00)     (21.48)
2. Goods                           53.55            2.53         13.96         0.00        70.04
                                  (52.44)           (2.28)      (12.76)        (0.00)     (67.48)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00          1.00         0.50         1.50
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)      (1.00)
4. Social Services and             0.00             0.00          8.45         0.00         8.45
Training
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (7.61)         (0.00)      (7.61)
5. Incremental Operating           0.00             0.00          2.86         0.00         2.86
Costs                             (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.43)         (0.00)      (1.43)
6. Front-end Fee                   0.00             0.00          1.00         0.00         1.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)      (1.00)
   Total                           53.55            11.02        42.65         0.50        107.72
                                  (52.44)           (9.92)      (37.64)        (0.00)     (100.00)



                                                 - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               1.92             17.36             0.00             19.28
                                          (0.00)             (1.73)           (15.63)            (0.00)           (17.36)
   2. Goods                                38.22              0.00             39.19             0.00             77.41
                                          (33.69)            (0.00)           (29.39)            (0.00)           (63.08)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.30             0.50              1.80
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.99)            (0.00)           (0.99)
   4. Social Services and                  0.00               0.00             18.34             0.02             18.36
   Training
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (16.52)            (0.00)           (16.52)
   5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              1.96             0.00              1.96
   Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.98)            (0.00)           (0.98)
   6. Front-end Fee                        0.00               0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
       Total                               38.22              1.92             79.15             0.52             119.81
                                          (33.69)            (1.73)           (64.51)            (0.00)           (99.93)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component 1: Protection
of basic social services
A. Education                  76.00        4.21         0.00        49.45         5.96       0.00       65.1     141.6      0.0
B. Social Welfare             22.00        3.01         0.00        48.31         13.10      0.00       219.6    435.2      0.0
Programs
Component 2:                   1.00        0.00         0.50         1.17         0.31       0.52       117.0     0.0     104.0
Strengthening
Management Capacity and
Systems in the Social
Services
Front-end fee                  1.00        0.00         0.50         1.00         0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0
Total                         100.00       7.22         0.50        99.93         19.36      0.52       99.9     268.1    104.0




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic rate of return was not calculated for this project at appraisal, nor was it calculated at closure.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/1999                    8    Sr. Human Resource Specialist
                                             (1): Manager, Core Operational
                                             Services (1); Procurement
                                             Specialists (2); Financial
                                             Specialist (1); Sr. General
                                             Educator (1); Sr. Education
                                             Specialist (1); Sr. Health
                                             Specialist (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1999                 12     Sr. Human Resource
                                             Specialist (1): Manager,
                                             Core Operational Services
                                             (1); Procurement Specialists
                                             (2); Financial Specialist (2);
                                             Operations Officer (1); Sr.
                                             Education Specialist (2); Sr.
                                             Health Sector Management
                                             Specialist (1); Architect (1);
                                             Team Assistant (1)


 Supervision
              11/01/2000                5    Sr. Human Resource                   S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Manager,
                                             Core Operational Services
                                             (1); Procurement Specialist
                                             (1); Operations Officer (1);
                                             Team Assistant (1)
              03/2001                  14    Sr. Human Resource Specialist        S               S
                                             (1); Manager, Core Operational
                                             Services (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialists (2);
                                             Operations Officer (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1); Civil
                                             Works Consultant (1); KPMG
                                             Consultants (6)
              11/2001                  14    Sr. Human Resource Specialist        S               S
                                             (1); Manager, Core Operational
                                             Services (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialists (2);
                                             Operations Officer (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);




                                              - 27 -

                                                       Architect Civil Works Consultant
                                                       (1); Team Assistant (1)
               07/2002                          10     Sr. Human Resource Specialist             S               S
                                                       (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                                       Operations Officer (1); Team
                                                       Assistant (1); Information
                                                       Technology Specialist (1);
                                                       Poverty/Social Welfare
                                                       Consultant (1); Civil Works
                                                       Consultant (1); Sr. Education
                                                       Specialist (1); Textbook
                                                       Consultant (1); Sr. Procurement
                                                       Specialist (1)
               4/2003                           11     Sr. Human Resource Specialist             S               S
                                                       (1); Procurement Specialists (1);
                                                       Operations Officer (1); Social
                                                       Development Specialist (1);
                                                       Program Assistants (2);
                                                       Education Specialist (1);
                                                       Financial Management Specialist
                                                       (1); Civil Works Specialist (1);
                                                       Information Technology
                                                       Specialist (1); Procurement
                                                       Specialist, Consultant (1)
               10/2003                           9     Sr. Human Resource Specialist             S               S
                                                       (1): Sr. Economist (1);
                                                       Procurement Specialist (1);
                                                       Social Development Specialist
                                                       (1): Program Assistant (1);
                                                       Education Specialist (1);
                                                       Financial Management Specialist
                                                       (1); Civil Works Specialist (1);
                                                       Procurement Specialist,
                                                       Consultant (1)

 ICR
               03/2004                           3      Sr. Economist (1);                       S
                                                        Procurement Specialist (1);
                                                        Human Development
                                                        Specialist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            78.8                           374,706
  Supervision
  ICR                                             63.13                           238,987
  Total                                         141.93                            613,693
Note: 78.8 are the staff weeks estimates for identification/preparation/appraisal/negotiation; and 63.13 are the
estimates for supervision/ICR.



                                                        - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank Documents
19-May-2004         Closure of Loan Account and Cancellation of Balance
3-Mar-2004          TOR for ICR Mission of March/April 2004
3-Mar-2004          Letter to GOP Announcing Mission (Mar/Apr 2004)
24-Dec-2003         Closure of Project Letter to GOP
10-Dec-2003         Supervision Mission package of October 2003
4-Dec-2003          Project Status Report (October 2003 Mission)
1-Oct-2003          TOR for Spn Mission of October 2003
2-Jun-2003          Supervision Mission package of April/May 2003
2-Jun-2003          Project Status Report (April 2002 Mission)
30-Apr-2003         Supervision Mission package of July/August 2002 (copy)
16-Apr-2003         TOR for Spn Mission of April/May 2003
18-Dec-2002         Extension of Project Closing Date documents
26-Nov-2002         Letter to incoming Secretary of Education
9-Oct-2002          Project Status Report (July/August 2002 Mission)
18-Sep-2002         Supervision Mission package of July/August 2002
9-Aug-2002          Reallocation of Loan Proceeds
7-Aug-2002          Reallocation of Loan Proceeds (Clearance Request)
17-Jul-2002         Letter to GOP announcing Spn Mission of July/August 2002
16-Jul-2002         TOR for Spn Mission of July/August 2002
6-Jun-2002          Project Status Report (March 2002 Mission)
18-Apr-2002         Reallocation of Loan Program Components
11-Dec-2001         Project Status Report (November 2001 Mission)
11-Dec-2001         Supervision Mission package of November 2001 Mission
5-Dec-2001          Reallocation of Loan Proceeds
4-Jun-2001          Project Status Report (November 2000 Mission)
11-May-2001         Background for Project Appraisal Document
8-May-2001          Background for Project Appraisal Document
18-Apr-2001         Letter to GOP (BTO) on Spn Mission of March 2001
28-Feb-2001         SEMP 1 PAD Comments
18-Dec-2000         Project Status Report (November 2000 Mission)
16-Oct-2000         TOR for Oct/Nov 2000 Mission
26-Jun-2000         Project Status Report (Initial)
15-Feb-2000         Board Approval Letter to GOP
24-Jan-2000         Board Presentation
24-Jan-2000         Loan/Credit/GEF Grant Cover Sheet
24-Jan-2000         Release of the Memorandum of the President
24-Jan-2000         Final Loan Package
3-Jan-2000          Status of Negotiations
30-Dec-1999         Status of Negotiations
23-Dec-1999         Summary of Negotiations
22-Dec-1999         Notice of Invitation to Negotiate
21-Dec-1999         Invitation to Borrower to Negotiate
20-Dec-1999         Revised Project Appraisal Documents
16-Dec-1999         Environmental and Social Clearance
10-Dec-1999         Appraisal Mission (November 8-26, 1999)
9-Dec-1999          Letter to GOP on November 1999 Appraisal Mission


                                              - 31 -

9-Dec-1999              Letter to GOP Nov. 1999 Appraisal Mission w/A-M
12-Nov-1999             TOR for November 1999 Appraisal Mission
4-Nov-1999              Letter to GOP on November 1999 Appraisal Mission
29-Oct-1999             SEMP PAD Comments
29-Oct-1999             Minutes of the Decision Meeting
27-Oct-1999             RPA Comments on PAD Package
25-Oct-1999             Comments on PAD Package
25-Oct-1999             TOR for Oct/Nov 1999 Mission
5-Aug-1999              JPN Grant TF025937 for Social Sector Improvement
17-Aug-1999             JPN Grant TF025937 for Social Sector Improvement
June 1999               Prep/Pre-Appraisal Mission of May 4 to June 11, 1999
2-Jun-1999              A-M on SEMP Loan (Status & Issues for Resolution)
20-May-1999             Minutes of the PCD Review Meeting
10-May-1999             Letter to GOP Confirming Project Concept Approval
27-Apr-1999             Project Concept Review Meeting
5-Apr-1999              CD Comments on PAD Package
5-Apr-1999              Letter to GOP on Feb ID Mission and Action Plan
26-Feb-1999             Identification Mission (BTO) of February 1999
19-Jan-1999             Letter to GOP Announcing ID/Preparation Mission

Other Bank Reports
16-Oct-2003             Philippines Development Policy Update
30-Apr-2003             Philippines Expenditure, Procurement and Financial Management Review
30-Apr-2002             Philippines Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
June 2001               The Social Impact of Financial Crisis in East Asia (EASED Discussion Paper)
25-Feb-2000             Loan Agreement
24-Jan-2000             Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
1999                    Philippines Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
13-Nov-1998             Philippines Social Expenditures Priorities
1998                    Philippines Education Sector Study (PESS)
1997                    Philippines Country Portfolio Performance Review
2001                    Philippines Poverty Assessment


Government Reports
25-June-2004            SEMP Cost Table Actual Expenditures (February 2000 to April 30, 2004)
15-Mar-2004             DepED/SEMP Status of Payments
28-Feb-2003             SEMP Implementation Completion Report (Government)
23-Oct-2001             Realignment of Loan Category
25-Feb-2000             Loan Agreement
2003                    Philippines Development Policy Update
2-Dec-1998              Government Formal Request for World Bank Financing of Proposed Social
                        Expenditure Loan

DepED/ICT Final Report: Vol. 4 of 7; Binder 1 of 2. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DepED/ICT:
IT Infrastructure Support & IT Standardization.

DepED/ICT Final Report: Vol. 4 of 7; Binder 2 of 2. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DepED/ICT:
IT Organization Design.



                                                 - 32 -

DSWD/ICT Final Report: Vol. 7 of 7; Binder 1 of 2. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DSWD/ICT:
IT Infrastructure Support/IT Standards.

DSWD/ICT Final Report: Vol. 7 of 7; Binder 2 of 2. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DSWD/ICT:
IT Organizational Design.

DSWD/FM Final Report: Vol. 5 of 7; Binder 2 of 4. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DSWD/FM:
Automation of Central Accounting Processes.

DSWD/FM Final Report: Vol. 5 of 7; Binder 1 of 4. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DSWD/FM:
FM Capacity and Governance.

DSWD/FM Final Report: Vol. 5 of 7; Binder 4 of 4. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project. DSWD/FM:
Financial Management and Flash Reporting.

DepED/FM Final Report: Vol. 2 of 7; Binder 2 of 3. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DepED/FM:
Regional and Divisional Automation.

DepED/FM Final Report: Vol. 2 of 7; Binder 3 of 3. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DepED/FM:
Management and Flash Reporting.

DepED/FM Final Report: Vol. 2 of 7; Binder 1 of 3. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DepED/FM:
FM Capacity and Governance.

DSWD/Procurement Final Report: Vol. 6 of 7; Binder 1 of 1. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project;
DSWD/Procurement: Standardization of Procurement Processes.

DepED/Procurement Final Report: Vol. 3 of 7; Binder 1 of 1. SEMP Technical Assistance Project;
DepED/Procurement: On-going Procurement Support/Standardization of Procurement Processes/Design of
Central DepED Procurement Group.

DepED/Procurement Final Report: Vol. 3 of 7; Binder 1 of 1. DepED Procurement: Ongoing
Procurement Support/Standardization of Procurement Processes/Designed of Central DepED Procurement
Group.

DSWD/FM Final Report: Vol. 5 of 7; Binder 3 of 4. SEMP/Technical Assistance Project; DSWD/FM:
Regional and Divisional Automation.

Final Report: Vol. 1 of 7; Binder 2 of 2. SEMP/Technical Assistance.

Final Report: Vol. 1 of 7; Binder 1 of 2. Technical Assistance Project.

Technical Proposal: SEMP/Technical Assistance Project: Technical Assistance for Strengthening.

Final Draft: SEMP Technical Assistance Project Inception Report-Updated Project Implementation Plan.

Final: SEMP Project Framework Document.




                                                 - 33 -

Other Reports

17-May-2002   CIDSS Review: Final Report (Thomas W. Dichter)
2002          Technical Assistance on DSWD Institutions and Center: Final Report
              (Joseph Hoffman)




                                          - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. Tables

Table 1: Readiness for implementation

 Performance Benchmarks                               ICR team assessment
 Projects with satisfactory quality at entry rating   Using QAG criteria for QAE - project is satisfactory

 GOP projects designed with M&E indicators            M&E indicators developed
 Funding for the 1st year of implementation           Project funds appropriations in the government's budget
 allocated in the budget
 Contract award finalized, prior to Board             Items eligibloe for retroactive financing amount to US$ 20
 presentation , for at least 20% of the proposed loan million or 20% of the loan amount identfied prior to appraisal
 amount
 Land acquistion plan and payments equivalent to      Not applicable as all construction was on government sites
 1st year of civil works completed
 Projects with PIUs established amd staffed by        Established prior to appraisal and confimed during negotiations
 appraisal
 Projects complying with procurement/financial        First year procurement plan and financial manual, PMR report
 management requirements                              formats agreed on before Board presentation

Table 2: Results of the Joint-Monitoring Assessment of School Building Program


Project                Area/Classroom            Cost/CL           Cost per Sqm          Regions      General
                                                                                                      Appearance
                                              Low
SEMP Principal             63 (7 x 9)          Php 280,000                                            Painted with
Led                                            High                                                   electricals & ceiling
                                               Php 380,000                               Nationwide
                                              Ave Cost
                                               Php 350,000         Php 5,555/sqm
                                                                                                      Painted with
SEMP NCB                  63 (7 x 9)           Php 375,000         Php 5,952/sqm         Nationwide   electrical & ceiling

TEEP                      63 (7 x 9)               442,000         Php 7,016/sqm         22 prov      Higher Quality
                                                                                                      (Painted with
                                                                                                      electricals &
                                                                                                      ceiling)
SEDIP                                                                                                 Painted with
                          63 (7 x 9)               422,000         Php 6,698/sqm         14 prov      electrical & ceiling
Fil Chinese Cham                                                   Php 7,143/sqm         Nationwide   Varied
of Com                   42 (6 x 7)                300,000
                                                                                                      No electricals, no
DPWH                      56 (7 x 8)               360,000         Php 6,428/sqm         Nationwide   painting, no ceiling
Armed Forces of                                                                                       No electricals, no
the Phils (School         56 (7 x 8)              260,000          Php 4,643/sqm         Nationwide   painting, no ceiling
less Barangays)
 Source: TFEAM, DepED.




                                                         - 35 -

- 36 -

