Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4535 - PH
Loan Agreement
(Social Expenditure Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 25, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4535 - PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  February 25, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the “Project”), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
Page  2
“(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishments of the purposes of 
the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings: 
(a)
“COA” means the Borrower’s Commission On Audit, and any successor 
thereto. 
(b)
“Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services Activities” 
means community-based activities in the poorest Barangays for road improvement 
projects, potable water projects, electrification projects, housing improvement 
projects, sanitary toilet projects, and campaigns against domestic violence.
(c)
“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, and any 
successor thereto.
(d)
“DECS” means the Borrower’s Department of Education, Culture and Sports, 
and any successor thereto.
(e)
“DSWD” means the Borrower’s Department of Social Welfare and Development, 
and any successor thereto.
(f)
"Manual of Operations" means the manual dated December 20, 1999, 
specifying the managerial, financial, administrative, engineering and environmental 
policies and procedures for the execution of the Project, and DSWD’s Departmental 
Order No. 54 dated December 29, 1994, as amended by Departmental Order No. 22 dated 
May 15, 1996 specifying the eligibility criteria for selection of Comprehensive and 
Integrated Delivery of Social Services Activities;
(g)
“Project Management Office” and “PMO” mean the offices to be established 
and maintained by DBM, DECS, and DSWD in accordance with paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; 
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
"Steering Committee" means the Committee established and operating by 
directive of DBM dated July 28, 1999 and to be maintained pursuant to Paragraph 1(a) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
Page  3
special deposit account in dollars in a commercial bank specifically authorized for 
this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollar for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
quarters of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for 
such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year. 
Page  4
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through 
DECS; (ii) shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project through DSWD; and (iii) shall 
carry out Part C of the Project through DBM, in collaboration with COA, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
educational, environmental, financial, procurement and management practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.  DBM and COA will provide oversight for the implementation 
of Parts A and B of the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the purposes of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to 
the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the three month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the three month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as of the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  6
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Boulevard
Manila, Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268CB-CONF
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Jose Pardo 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
 20,400,000
90%
Page  7
(2)
Goods 
 64,000,000
100% of foreign ex- 
penditures; 100% of 
local expenditures  
(ex-factory cost); and 
75% of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services        1,000,000
100%
(4)
Social Services
  7,200,000
90%
Assistance and 
training
(5)
Incremental Operating
  1,400,000
50%
Costs
(6)
Fee
  1,000,000
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
  5,000,000
TOTAL
100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term “Social Services Assistance” means expenditures incurred for 
individual field workers, professional counselors, lawyers and others in connection 
with delivery of social services to children, victims of disasters, and other 
disadvantaged populations; and (d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means 
Project staff travel costs, subsistence allowances, and costs for office supplies 
incurred by DECS and DSWD in monitoring the implementation of the Project, but 
excluding salaries. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,  no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$20,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after February 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
civil works and goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; 
(b)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 equivalent, respectively; 
(c)
Social Services Assistance; 
(d)
Incremental Operating Costs; and 
(e)
training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  8
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) financing basic 
social services during a period of continuing fiscal austerity in the aftermath of the 
East Asia financial crisis; (b) improving the performance and efficiency of DECS and 
DSWD procurement systems, financial management, information communication systems; and 
(c) strengthening the efficiency of DBM, in collaboration with COA, in oversight of 
the financial management and procurement systems of DECS and DSWD.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A.
Education 
1.
Construction, renovation and equipping of existing elementary and secondary 
basic education facilities under the Borrower’s school building program. 
2.
Repair and maintenance of basic education facilities, and increased school-based 
autonomy in management of maintenance through establishment of a Repair and 
Maintenance Fund for basic education schools of the Borrower.
3.
Furnishing of desks, chairs and textbooks for basic education schools.
4.
Carrying out national and regional level teacher training programs, including 
degree upgrading programs and short-term in-service training.
Part B.
Social Welfare Services 
1.
Carrying out Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services 
Activities, including road improvement projects, potable water projects, 
electrification projects, housing improvement projects, sanitary toilet projects, day 
care services, construction of day care centers, supplemental feeding programs, and 
campaigns against domestic violence.
2.
Provision of support for the maintenance and operation of residential care 
centers and community-based programs.
3.
Carrying out assistance programs for distressed and disadvantaged populations, 
including protective services for children and youth, assistance to persons with 
disability, senior citizens, and assistance to victims of disasters and natural 
calamities.
Part C.
Management Capacity
1.
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the performance of DECS, DSWD 
and DBM in collaboration with COA, in financial management, procurement, and 
information communication systems.
2.
Provision and improvement of information communication systems, and 
establishment or upgrading of information systems plans for DBM, DECS, and DSWD.
3.
Provision of assistance to the PMO’s in DBM, DECS, and DSWD for coordination of 
Project activities 
*                  *                    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
October 15, 2005
2,045,000 
April 15, 2006
2,110,000 
Page  9
October 15, 2006
2,175,000 
April 15, 2007
2,245,000 
October 15, 2007
2,315,000 
April 15, 2008
2,390,000 
October 15, 2008
2,465,000 
April 15, 2009
2,545,000 
October 15, 2009
2,625,000 
April 15, 2010
2,710,000 
October 15, 2010
2,795,000 
April 15, 2011
2,880,000 
October 15, 2011
2,975,000 
April 15, 2012
3,070,000 
October 15, 2012
3,165,000 
April 15, 2013
3,265,000 
October 15, 2013
3,370,000 
April 15, 2014
3,475,000 
October 15, 2014
3,585,000 
April 15, 2015
3,700,000 
October 15, 2015
3,815,000 
April 15, 2016
3,940,000 
October 15, 2016
4,065,000 
April 15, 2017
4,190,000 
October 15, 2017
4,325,000 
April 15, 2018
4,460,000 
October 15, 2018
4,605,000 
April 15, 2019
4,750,000 
October 15, 2019
4,900,000 
April 15, 2020
5,045,000
_____________________________ 
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  10
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,490,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,530,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $15,380,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor or 
qualified non-governmental organization who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,380,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are required to prepare for natural disasters and for post-disaster 
rehabilitation, including food-for-work and costing $3,750,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods required for Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,830,000 equivalent 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to the following contracts:
(i)
each contract for goods estimated to cost in excess of US$200,000 
equivalent; and
(ii)
the first civil works contract per year; the first civil works 
Page  11
contract 
equivalent to at least $20,000 to be awarded under 
procurement of small works 
per province or region per year, and 
each contract for works estimated to cost 
in excess of US$200,000 
equivalent.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 above, of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for Selection
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B of the Project, which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individuals
Services for Part B of the Project that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individuals in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  12
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee chaired by the 
Secretary of DBM and consisting of Undersecretaries from DECS and DSWD, with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the progress of the Project and to 
coordinate its components.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain an Agency Steering Committee in each of DBM, 
DECS, and DSWD, headed by the Secretary or the Undersecretary responsible for 
Financial Management and Procurement, and key financial management and procurement 
staff, to oversee implementation of the Project. 
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain a PMO in each of DBM, DECS, and DSWD, headed 
by Project coordinators, and assisted by financial management, procurement and 
monitoring and evaluation specialists, all with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, having such functions, responsibilities, funds and other 
facilities as shall be required to enable such PMO’s to undertake supervision and 
monitoring of the Project.
2.
The Borrower: 
(a)
shall cause DECS and DSWD to maintain in effect, the Manual of Operations 
for the Project acceptable to the Bank, which manual shall include: (i) operational 
procedures for determining the eligibility of Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of 
Social Services Activities and the appraisal and financing criteria therefor; (ii) 
procedures for procurement, financial management, disbursement, supervision and impact 
evaluation in respect of the Project; (iii) policy and procedures to ensure the 
participation of indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of Comprehensive 
and Integrated Delivery of Social Services Activities; and (iv) procedures for the 
monitoring and reporting of Project activities.
(b)
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Manual of Operations, 
and the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) DECS shall implement Parts A and C of the 
Project; (ii) DSWD shall implement Parts B and C of the Project; and (iii) DBM in 
collaboration with COA shall implement Part C of the Project, all in accordance with 
the criteria, conditions and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the 
Manual of Operations; and  
(c)
shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Manual of 
Operations, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
3.
DECS and DSWD shall, by September 30, 2000, furnish Financial Management, 
Procurement and Communication Improvement Plans, satisfactory to the Bank, and 
thereafter implement such Improvement Plans according to a schedule satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
Page  13
4.
DECS shall use an independent system satisfactory to the Bank for monitoring the 
delivery to basic education facilities of textbooks, desks and chairs, and shall 
thereafter monitor the delivery of such items according to a schedule satisfactory to 
the Bank.
5.
DSWD shall monitor procurement of items under the Project through a 
community-based monitoring system satisfactory to the Bank, based upon the minimum 
basic needs survey, and utilizing the Barangay Inter-Agency Committee.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
(i)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank, on February 15 and August 15 of each year, 
commencing in August 15, 
2000, semi-annual reports, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 6, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of each such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; 
and 
(ii)
review with the Bank each report referred to in sub-paragraph 
(b)(i) of this 
paragraph 6, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period 
following the date of such report, based on the 
conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the view of the Bank on 
the matter;
(c)
(i)
by February 15, 2001, prepare under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the 
Bank and furnish to the Bank, a report 
integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(b)(i) of 
this paragraph 6, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the 
Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(ii)
review with the Bank by March 15, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall 
request, the report referred in sub-paragraph (c) (i) of 
this paragraph 6, and 
thereafter take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof during the period 
following the date of such 
report, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of 
the said report and the views of the Bank on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
Page  14
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$4,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $40,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
Page  15
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
