Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056692 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(GEF Ningbo Water and Environment Management Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated September 22, 2006 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056692 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 2006, between 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2; and 
 
(D) 
the Project will be carried out by Ningbo (as defined in Section 1.02) 
with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant available to Ningbo, as provided in Article II 
of this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Ningbo (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
Page  3
-
2
-
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01(2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02(a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) Section 
8.01(b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01(a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and 
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01(c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01(6), 6.02(f) and 5.01(a) thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that 
in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 
(vi) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be 
withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient on the goods or services to be financed under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of 
the proceeds of its grants such as the GEF Trust Fund Grant.  To 
that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount 
of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Recipient, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.”; 
 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
 (o) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; and 
 
(viii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
“Cixi City” means Cixi City, a county-level city within the jurisdiction of 
Ningbo Muncipality. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
“CMSC” means Cixi Municipal Sewage Company Limited, a state-
owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of 
April 8, 2004, and to Business License No. 3302821004269 dated April 23, 2004, issued 
by Ningbo Muncipality Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(d) 
“CHWMC” means Cixi East Asia Hangzhou Bay Wetland Management 
Co. Ltd., a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to 
its Charter of April 26, 2006, and to Business License No. 3302821004944 dated April 
27, 2006, issued by Ningbo Muncipality Industrial and Commercial Administration 
Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
(e) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means 
any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Ningbo Water and 
Environment Project Environmental Management Plan dated April 2006 and prepared on 
behalf of Ningbo, which said plan, inter alia, sets out the environmental protection 
measures in
 
respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements 
to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank 
 
(g) 
“Ningbo” means Ningbo Municipality within Zhejiang Province, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(h) 
“North Cixi Wastewater Treatment Plant Agreements” means, 
collectively, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement dated August 12, 2005, between Ningbo 
Municipality and Cixi City and the Secondary Subsidiary Loan Agreement dated August 
14, 2005, between Cixi City and CMSC, both agreements providing, inter alia, for the 
construction of a wastewater treatment plant north of Cixi City and financing therefor 
under Bank Loan Number 4770-CHA. 
 
(i) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean Natural 
Wetland Project in Cixi, Ningbo Resettlement Action Plan dated April 2006 and prepared 
on behalf of Cixi City, which sets out the principles and procedures governing the 
acquisition of land and other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation 
of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part B of the Project, as well as 
Page  6
-
5
-
monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan, dated April 2006, 
prepared by Ningbo covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(k) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and Ningbo, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(m) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into 
between Ningbo (through Cixi City) and each of CMSC and CHWMC pursuant to 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said agreements; 
and “Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means either of the said agreements. 
 
(n) 
“Wetlands Center” means the center to be created under Part B of the 
Project. 
 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Ningbo, CMSC and CHWMC. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to five million Dollars ($5,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
Page  7
-
6
-
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement: (i) shall 
cause Ningbo to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Ningbo therein set forth; (ii) shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Ningbo to perform such obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to Ningbo on a grant basis.   
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and  
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause Ningbo to update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Recipient hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Ningbo pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall cause Ningbo to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause Ningbo to: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
 
(a) 
Ningbo shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.  
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Ningbo 
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Any of the parties to any of the Subsidiary Grant Agreements shall have 
failed to perform any of their respective obligations thereunder. 
 
(d) 
Any of the parties to any of the North Cixi Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Agreements shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness, Termination 
 
Section 6.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that Subsidiary Grant Agreements shall have been entered 
into: (a) between Ningbo (through Cixi City) and CMSC; and (b) between Ningbo 
(through Cixi City) and CHWMC, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, Peo
ple’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By: /s/ Mr. Zhu Guangyao 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility 
 
By: /s/ Ms. Elaine Sun 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in 
US$ Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures
(1) Works under Part A of the Project 
 
1,000,000 30% 
(2) Works under Part B of the Project 
for restoration of wetlands 
 
900,000 50% 
(3) Works under Part B of the Project 
for construction of buildings and 
facilities 
 
900,000 50% 
(4) Goods 
 
200,000 100% 
(5
)
Consultants’ services 
 
1,800,000 100% 
(6) Training and workshops 
 
200,000 
 
100% 
 
Total 
 
5,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and (d) training 
and workshops regardless of cost, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
4. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Ningbo in reducing land-based pollution 
along the coast of Cixi City, thereby contributing to the reduction of pollution to the East 
China Sea, promoting the replication of innovative low cost wastewater treatment 
techniques and encouraging coastal zone conservation.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
 
Part A
:
Construction of Wetlands
Construction of two areas of wetlands on selected reclaimed land along the Cixi 
City coastline to serve as a tertiary wastewater treatment system for the North Cixi 
Wastewater Treatment Plant. 
 
Part B
:
Creation of a Wetlands Center   
Creation of a wetland center
 (“Wetlands Center”), including construction of a 
visitors’ center and associated facilities and enhancement and restoration of selected 
tracts of wetland, all to serve as a habitat for migratory and resident birds and wildlife, as 
an environmental education and research center, and to pilot the use of ecological 
engineering measures as a pollution removing system. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for the implementation of the Project and to 
assist in the management of the Wetlands Center.  
 
2. 
Carrying out of workshops, training and activities to promote the dissemination 
of knowledge and experience acquired from Project implementation. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
Page  16
-
15
-
by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
Page  17
-
16
-
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
