Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056692 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(GEF Ningbo Water and Environment Management Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
NINGBO MUNICIPALITY 
 
Dated September 22, 2006 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056692 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 2006 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and NINGBO 
MUNCIPALITY (Ningbo). 
 
WHEREAS by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
(the GEF Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between the People’s Republic of 
China (Recipient) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
acting as an implementing agency of the GEF (the Agency), the Agency agreed to make 
available to the Recipient an amount equal to five million Dollars ($5,000,000).  
 
WHEREAS Ningbo, in consideration of the Agency’s entering into the GEF 
Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Ningbo declares it commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out, and shall cause to be carried out by Cixi City, CMSC and CHWMC, the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and social, 
environment, and ecological standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Ningbo shall otherwise agree, Ningbo shall carry out, and 
Page  3
-
2
-
shall cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and
 consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
Ningbo shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Ningbo shall carry out, and shall cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Ningbo shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Ningbo, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Ningbo on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Ningbo shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
(b) 
Ningbo shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by Ningbo of its obligations 
under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Ningbo shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
Page  4
-
3
-
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) Ningbo 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon Ningbo’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Ningbo shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank financial monitoring reports,
 
in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by each said report, showing separately funds provided under 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and explain variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds. 
 
(b) 
The first such financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each 
financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Ningbo 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Ningbo 
thereof. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
For Ningbo: 
 
c/o Ningbo Water and Environment Project Management Office  
 
1509/R, 15/F Tianning Tower 
138 West Zhongshan Road 
Ningbo Municipality 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86574) 87280430 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Ningbo may be 
taken or executed by its Mayor or a Vice Mayor or such other person or persons as said 
Mayor or a Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Ningbo shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global 
Environment Facility 
 
By: /s/ Ms. Elaine Sun  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
NINGBO MUNICIPALITY 
 
By: /s/ Mr. ZHU Guangyao 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. All 
goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient (other than goods manufactured in the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region 
of the Recipient).   
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $15,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding and the following additional provisions:   
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Guidelines: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Recipient’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Recipient and Ningbo in case of breach 
of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall 
specify the required form and amount of such security. 
 
(v) 
The date and time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Recipient or Ningbo, as the case 
may be. 
 
(viii)  Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
Page  10
-
9
-
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall provide that the suppliers and contractors shall 
permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and 
records relating to the performance of the contract and to have 
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Page  11
-
10 -
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
works, regardless of cost
;
and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  In addition, the record of 
justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for 
each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be subject to prior approval of the Bank.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  12
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Project Management
1. 
Ningbo shall maintain, and cause to be maintained, for purposes of carrying out 
the Project, the following organizations, with terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank, throughout the period of implementation of the Project:  
 
(a) 
The Ningbo Leading Group, which is composed of the Vice Mayor of 
Ningbo and Directors from each of Ning
bo’s Municipal Development and Reform 
Commission (“DRC”), Environmental Protection Bureau, Water Resources Bureau, 
Construction Bureau, and Finance Bureau, responsible for providing overall policy 
guidance and planning support during Project implementation.   
 
(b) 
The Project Management Office, established under DRC and composed 
of a project manager, an experienced chief engineer and procurement specialist, a project 
accountant, an environmental specialist, a resettlement unit, and a translator, responsible 
for overall Project coordination and implementation. 
 
(c)  
The Cixi Leading Group, which includes the Vice-Mayor of the city and 
the director and a deputy director from the Cixi Construction Bureau and other relevant 
agencies, responsible for providing policy direction and planning support for the Project.  
 
(d) 
The Expert Group, which includes wetland experts, professors and 
engineers of various Ningbo and Cixi government agencies, responsible for providing 
technical support to the Cixi Leading Group on the design and implementation of the 
Project. 
 
Resettlement and Environment Protection
2. Ningbo 
shall: 
 
(a) 
take, and shall cause Cixi City and CHWMC to take, all necessary 
actions to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, 
productive assets or access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood, 
temporarily or permanently in carrying out the Project;  
 
(b) 
for this purpose, implement, and cause Cixi City and CHWMC to 
implement the Resettlement Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
provide, and cause Cixi City and CHWMC to provide, to the Bank for its 
prior concurrence any proposed modification or waiver of the Resettlement Action Plan, 
prior to putting into effect such modification or waiver. 
Page  13
-
12 -
3. 
Ningbo shall implement, and shall cause Cixi City, CMSC and CHWMC to 
implement, the Environmental Management Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank 
and designed to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
environmental practices and standards. 
 
4. 
Ningbo shall, and shall cause Cixi City and CMSC to:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable Cixi City, CMSC 
and CHWMC to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement 
Action Plan and the achievement of the objectives of said plans, including the 
engagement of experienced and qualified independent monitoring agencies acceptable to 
the Bank; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on January 31, 2007, 
semi-annual reports of the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities referred to 
in sub-paragraph (a) above, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into 
said plans in order to achieve their respective objectives; and  
 
(c) 
introduce such revisions into said plans as shall have been agreed with 
the Bank. 
 
Financial Arrangements
5. 
Ningbo shall allocate to Cixi City, CMSC and CHWMC, each a portion of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
6. 
Ningbo shall make available the portion of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant which was allocated to CMSC and CHWMC pursuant to paragraph 5 of this 
Schedule for the purpose of carrying out their respective part of the Project under a 
subsidiary grant agreement to be entered between Ningbo (through Cixi City) and each of 
CMSC and CHWMC: (a) on a grant basis; and (b) under conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
(a) 
Ningbo (through Cixi City) shall cause CMSC and CHWMC each to: 
(i) perform, in accordance with the provisions of their respective Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, all of the obligations set forth therein; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable CMSC or CHWMC, as the case may be, to perform such 
Page  14
-
13 -
obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.  
 
(b) 
Ningbo shall exercise (through Cixi City) its rights under each of the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, 
the Bank and Ningbo, and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
Consultants
8. 
Ningbo shall cause Cixi City, CMSC and CHWMC, by June 1, 2007, to have in 
place consultants, procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to carry out the following work: (a) the detailed design of the wetlands to be 
constructed under Part A of the Project; (b) the detailed design of the Wetlands Center to 
be constructed under Part B of the Project; and (c) provide assistance for the management 
of the Wetlands Center under Part C.1 of the Project. 
 
Wetlands Center
9. 
With respect to Part B of the Project, Ningbo, through Cixi City, shall cause 
CHWMC: 
 
(a) 
to complete by December 31, 2006: (i) appointment of staff with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) establishment of a financial management system, acceptable to the Bank; and 
(iii) complete training to its staff in financial management, procurement, disbursements 
and safeguard procedures in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
to complete by June 1, 2009, construction of the buildings and works for 
ecological enhancement and restoration of wetlands, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
and officially open the Wetlands Center to the public. 
 
Monitoring and Reporting
10. Ningbo 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on January 31, 
2007, a semi-annual report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above (integrating the reports 
Page  15
-
14 -
furnished by CMSC and CHWMC pursuant to paragraph 4(e)(ii) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement), each such report to: (i) set out physical progress in the implementation of 
the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of the preceding calendar semester, and 
explain variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and (ii) set 
forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the end of the period covered by 
said report;  
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank on or about July 31, 2008, a mid-term report on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Bank by December 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the mid-term report referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Principal Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreements 
 
For the purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement each Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement shall include the following principal conditions. 
 
1. 
CMSC or CHWMC, as the case may be, shall undertake to: (a) carry out its 
respective parts of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate management, financial, engineering and public utility practices and social, 
environmental and ecological standards acceptable to the Bank, and provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and (b) without 
limitation on the foregoing, take all measures necessary to ensure that its respective parts 
of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and 
the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
2. 
CMSC and CHWMC shall each undertake to procure the goods, works and 
consultants
’
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods, 
works and consultants’ services exclusively in the carrying out of their respective parts of 
the Project.  
 
3. 
CMSC and CHWMC shall each undertake to enable the Bank and Ningbo to 
inspect such goods and the sites and works included in their respective parts of the 
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents. 
 
4. 
CMSC and CHWMC shall each undertake to: 
 
(a) 
Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition. 
 
(b) 
Have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank.  
 
(c) 
Furnish to the Bank and Ningbo, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial 
statements and accounts for such year as so audited; an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or Ningbo shall have reasonably 
requested; and all such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or Ningbo shall reasonably request. 
 
Page  17
-
16 -
(d) 
Prepare and furnish to the Bank and Ningbo all such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as 
the Bank or Ningbo shall reasonably request. 
 
(e) 
(i) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank 
and to Ningbo the carrying out of its respective parts of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and to 
Ningbo and furnish to Ningbo for its review, consolidation and submission to the Bank in 
accordance with paragraph 10(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement on or about January 15 
and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2007, semi-annual reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (i) of this sub-paragraph (e) on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its 
respective parts of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such report. 
 
5. 
Ningbo shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of CMSC and 
CHWMC, as the case may be, to the use of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
made available under their respective Subsidiary Grant Agreement upon their failure to 
perform their obligations under such agreement.    
 
