Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/11/2006 
Report No.:  AC2001
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  China 
Project ID:  P090336 
Project Name:  China-GEF-Ningbo Water and Environment Project 
Task Team Leader:  Greg J. Browder 
GEF Focal Area: International waters 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 2, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: June 29, 2006 
Managing Unit:  EASUR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%) 
Theme:  Other environment and natural resources management (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
5.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
12.10
12.10 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project objectives are to reduce land-based pollution along the Cixi coastline and the 
East China Sea, promote the replication of innovative low cost wastewater treatment 
techniques, and encourage costal zone conservation.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Ningbo Water and Environment Project (NWEP) loan was approved by the World 
Bank Board in March 2005 and the project has three components: i) Ningbo City Water 
Supply (US$157.9 million); ii) Cixi City Wastewater (US$128.4 million); and iii) 
Institutional Development (US$4.5 million). The proposed GEF Ningbo Water and 
Environment Project (hereafter called “the Project.”) is an environmental enhancement to 
the Cixi component of NWEP. Cixi City covers an area of 1,100 km2, with a population 
of around 1 million, and is located on the northern coastline of Ningbo Municipality 
bordering Hangzhou Bay. Since the NWEP loan is already approved, the GEF project is 
being processed as a standalone project. The Cixi component of NWEP (US$128.4 
million) received final Bank Safeguard Clearance in January 2005, and has already 
started implementation. The Project will include the following three components.  
 
Page  2
Component 1 
–
Construction of the Constructed Wetland (US$7.12 million). The GEF 
project will support the establishment of a wetland which will provide tertiary treatment 
for the 100,000 m3/d North Cixi secondary wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) financed 
by  NWEP. The Cixi City Government has allocated 86 ha of recently reclaimed land for 
the constructed wetland associated with North WWTP. The proposed constructed 
wetland will be a combination of vegetated submerged gravel bed and free surface water 
wetland.  
 
Component 2: Establishment of a Wetland Center (US$8.0 million). The Cixi City 
Government has designated an existing area in the vicinity of the Ningbo-Shanghai 
Bridge as the Wetland Center. The Wetland Center covers an area of approximately 43.5 
km2 and includes the following plots (see IBRD Map 34441): i) Plot A1-recently 
reclaimed, non-tidal land within the existing sea dike  (4.3 km2); ii) Plot A3-tidal 
marshland to the west of Plot A1 (1.4 km2); iii) Plot A5- a low lying island to the north 
of Plot A3 (1.8 km2); and iv) the tidal mudflat/bay section adjacent to Plots A1, A3, and 
A5, and covering approximately 36 km2.  Plots A2 and A4 would remain agricultural or 
low-density buffer areas. Development of the Wetland Center consists of two activities: i) 
the construction of a visitor center for wetland education and research in Plot A1, and ii) 
the enhancement and restoration of the Wetland Center’s natural wetland area. The 
Wetland Center hasthree objectives: i) enhance the ecological functions of the area; ii) 
serve as an educational and research center for wetland management; and iii) improve 
water quality in surrounding canals by natural wetland treatment.  
 
Component 3: Design and Management Assistance (US$2.0 million). The GEF project 
will finance the following three activities: i) engineering design of the Constructed 
Wetland and the Wetland Center; ii) Management Assistance for the Wetland Center; and 
iii) Training and Dissemination of Project experience. Management assistance is 
expected to be provided by a consortium of NGOs/Universities.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Cixi City covers an area of 1,100 km2, with a population of around 1 million, and is 
located on the northern coastline of Ningbo Municipality bordering Hangzhou Bay. The 
salient aspects of the project location are described below.  
 
Shoreline Accretion:   The tides in Hangzhou Bay are the driving force for coast line 
changes. The average water depth in Hangzhou Bay is 8 to 10m. Influenced by the 
trumpet-shape of Hangzhou Bay, the tidal range is higher in the west and lower in the 
east. Large tidal-induced waves are frequent near shore throughout the year. Tidal 
currents lead to beach siltation, while wind and waves lead to beach erosion. The sea area 
within the Cixi City boundary is 342 km2 and belongs to the sheltered section of 
Hangzhou Bay, where the water is shallow with high sediment concentration and lower 
salt content. The tidal levels vary along the Cixi coastline, with the average tidal range 
varying from 1.7 to 5.3 meters. The average maximum speed of the tide water is around 3 
m3/s.  
 
Page  3
The beach and shallow water area from the Cixi shoreline covers 409 km2 and the 
shoreline is 77 km in length. This is the largest beach in the Zhejiang Province. The Cixi 
coastline can be divided into three sections, each with different geomorphological 
characteristics. The central beach area (i.e., the bulge in the satellite photo), is expanding 
and over the last 600 years the shoreline has expanded toward the sea by 15.5km, 
equivalent to 15 to 70m a year. The eastern beach is relatively stable, while the western 
beach area (i.e. in the vicinity of the island in the satellite photo) features radical erosion 
and siltation shifts. In an effort to control beach erosion and reclaim new land, Cixi has 
constructed a series of sea-dikes along the coast. As the land within the sea dikes are 
consolidated, the land is gradually transformed from wetland, aquaculture, agricultural 
land, and finally into more urban areas.  
 
Rapid Economic Growth: Cixi City is part of Ningbo Municipality and has three 
districts, 17 towns and a total population of around 1 million people. Cixi has one of the 
strongest and fastest growing economies in Zhejiang Province, and all of China. 
Industrial production has increased on the order of 15% over the past few years, and Cixi 
has become one of the leading centers for production and export of household appliances, 
ball bearings, lighters, and textiles (chemical fibers). The Cixi government has ambitious 
economic and urban development plans, and is developing four large industrial estates 
along recently reclaimed shoreline areas.  
 
Rich Biodiversity: The area outside of the sea dike is called the “near-shore area” and 
the width of the near-shore area varies depending on the tide and extends hundreds of 
meters at low tide. Both the area inside and outside of the sea dike has rich benthos 
resources and vegetation, and provide an excellent habitat for migratory and indigenous 
water birds. In addition, there is considerable aquaculture in the near shore area (i.e. just 
outside the sea dikes) including snails, crabs, and fish. The natural wetland consultant 
carried out the ecological baseline study in the project area and Cixi coastal line in 
general from September – October, 2005. The results indicated that the area is under 
severe ecological stress from land reclamation, over-harvesting of marine resources, and 
destruction of natural tidal wetlands.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
Page  4
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)  
 
Two studies were undertaken during preparation to provide comprehensive 
environmental analysis and project design: i) Constructed Wetland Feasibility Study; and 
ii) Wetland Center Design Study. These studies show that the GEF project as a whole 
will have a significant net positive impact. The project will improve ambient water 
quality in Cixi City and the Hangzhou Bay, and promote sustainable development of Cixi 
City. The negative impacts associated with the project are expected to be non-existent or 
minimal, and the impacts are expected to be site specific, reversible, and easily mitigated. 
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared and outlines necessary 
mitigation measures, institutional arrangements, and monitoring plan to avoid, minimize 
or otherwise compensate for the adverse impact associated with the construction and 
operation of the constructed wetland treatment system and the wetland center.  
 
Component 1: Constructed Wetland Treatment System  
 
The overall wastewater management approach in Cixi City, including the constructed 
wetland, was reviewed in the approved NWEP EIA. The North WWTP is designed to 
meet discharge standard Class lA, with limits of 10mg/l BOD and SS, and removal of 
nutrients to 15 mg/ltotal-nitrogen and 0.5 mg/l of phosphorus. The proposed treatment 
process is a modified A/O (anaerobic followed by aerobic) with tertiary treatment. Since 
the land in the vicinity of the plants is recently reclaimed coastal land with no 
development and is owned by the Cixi City government, there are no land acquisition 
requirements or resettlement issues. The constructed wetland was therefore chosen as the 
preferred alternative because it provides robust treatment with considerable buffering 
capacity. Another objective of the constructed wetland is to help maintain and enhance a 
wetland ecological habitat as the surrounding area develops.   
 
The use of constructed wetlands for tertiary treatment was reviewed in the approved 
NWEP EIA at a conceptual level. In 2006, the exact location and size of the constructed 
wetlands were decided after two rounds of broad stakeholder consultations and multiple 
Page  5
rounds of internal discussion within the Cixi City Government (see Map IBRD 34441). A 
total of 85 ha of land have been assigned as the constructed wetland site.  
 
Overall environmental impacts of the constructed wetland are expected to be positive. 
The study on the Constructed Wetland was carried out by the South China Institute of 
Environmental Sciences (SCIES) of the State Environmental Protection Administration 
(SEPA). The study has clearly defined the objective of the constructed wetland system 
and analyzed alt
ernative designs. Based on Cixi’s decisionon land-related issues, the 
study has proposed, and the Cixi City Government has accepted, a preferred 
configuration of wetland design and land use, i.e. a gravel bed plus free surface wetland. 
International wetland experts have reviewed the study and the preferred design and 
agreed that the proposed design can serve the function of tertiary wastewater treatment 
and achieve the targeted discharge standards. Technical assistance will be continuously 
provided under the GEF project to ensure international best practice is followed in the 
detailed design, construction, start-up and operations and monitoring of the constructed 
wetlands.  
 
Component 2: Establishment of the Wetland Center  
 
The Cixi City Government has designated an existing area in the general vicinity of the 
Ningbo-Shanghai Bridge as the Wetland Center (see Map IBRD 34441 for exact location 
and boundary of the area). The Wetland Center would cover an area of approximately 43.  
5
km2 and include the following plots: i) Plot A1-recently reclaimed and within the sea 
dike on the border of the 10th Sea Dike and to the west of the Ningbo-Shanghai Bridge 
(4.3 km2); ii) Plot A3-tidal marshland to the west of Plot A1(1.4 km2); iii) Plot A5-island 
to the north of Plot A3 (1.8 km2); and iv) the tidal mudflat/bay section adjacent to Plots 
A1, A3, and A5 and covering approximately 36 km2. Plots A2 and A4 would remain 
agricultural or low-density buffer areas.  
 
During the project preparation, a study on the Wetland Center has been completed by 
Wetlands International and the EDAW Inc., a United States-based urban planning firm. 
This study is comprised of three parts: i) investigating environmental baseline of the Cixi 
coastal area; ii) conceptual design of the Wetland Center; and iii) developing a land use 
plan for the Wetland Center.  This study concludes that the Wetland Center will help 
promote environmental awareness, and protect wetland and coastal resources. In addition, 
the environmental impacts of the Wetland Center are expected to be positive by 
preserving and enhancing habitat for plants, aquatic species, and birds, and by educating 
general public on environmental protection, wetland conservation and bird watching. 
Negative environmental impacts associated with the construction of the visitor center and 
the restoration and enhancement of the natural wetland areas will be minor, site specific 
and none are irreversible.  
 
The proposed visitor center will be a medium-sized building with a parking lot and 
access road. The parking lot will be built in southeast forest corner of Plot A1 of the 
natural wetland area. The access road will be built on an existing road. The conceptual 
design of the visitor center has suggested that international green building principles be 
followed to minimize the consumption of energy, water and non-recyclable materials, 
minimize waste generation and discharge, and maximum the use of recycled materials 
Page  6
and renewable energy. The conceptual design of the Wetland Center has benefited from 
an international study tour organized during project preparation.  
 
The study has suggested that eco-tourism, namely, bird watching activities, be carried 
out at the Wetland Center. The study estimates that annual visitors could potentially be 
around 200,000 person visits and the maximum allowed number of visitors should be no 
more 3,000 per day. A visitor automobile road will be constructed on an existing road 
along the east boundary of Plot A1 of the natural wetland area. According to the land-use 
plan of the natural wetland, a number of bird watching boardwalks and bird viewing 
blinds will be constructed to facilitate environmental education and bird watching 
activities. By limiting these construction activities to the east boundary of Plot A1, future 
impacts related to these constructions will be minimized.  
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)  
 
Currently, none of the coastal area along Cixi is designated by national authorities as 
legally defined protected areas. The objective of the Project  is to help conserve, 
rehabilitate, enhance and create new natural habitats along the Cixi coastline. By doing 
so, the constructed wetland and the Wetland Center will preserve or enhance existing 
natural habitats for benthos, vegetation, and migratory and indigenous waterfowls.  
 
The Environmental Baseline Study of the Cixi Coastal Area (as part of the Wetland 
Center Study), identified that the ecological function of the Cixi coastal area is to provide 
secondary habitats for migratory birds outside of the sea-dikes as well as crab farming, 
fishing or shellfish collection. This study suggests that wetland and tidal mudflats should 
be restored or enhanced to improve habitat quality.  
 
Based on the findings of the Environmental Baseline Study and technical comments of 
international experts, the Project will establish an enhanced natural wetland for 
international migratory birds around the Wetland Center. Within this area, only guided 
bird watching activities will be allowed. Fishing, crab farming, shellfish collection 
activities will also be prohibited. This should help to improve overall productivity along 
the entire Cixi coastline.  
 
The study proposes minor land-use modifications in the Wetland Center to enhance its 
ecological function. In particular, Plot A1 of the Wetland Center will have diverse resting 
habitats (such as hills, deep and shallow ponds) for different types of migratory 
waterfowl. Existing crab farms in areas outside of the seawalls, namely Plots A3 and A5, 
will be leveled to restore to natural condition, and thus to provide undisturbed feeding 
areas for waterfowls. Consequently, these project activities are expected to greatly 
improve quality of natural habitat for international migrating birds and other species.  
 
Based on technical suggestions of international experts and the study on the constructed 
wetland, carried out by the South China Institute of Environmental Sciences (SCIES) of 
the State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA), has incorporated ecological 
and aesthetical values into the design of the constructed wetland. Various islands and 
slopes have been proposed for the constructed wetland to attract different types of 
migratory and indigenous waterfowl.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)  
 
Page  7
The project does not involve any residents or permanent structures in the constructed 
wetland or the Wetland Center. All of the land is owned and regulated by the Cixi City 
government. No land acquisition is required. Field trips by the Bank team have confirmed 
that the constructed wetland site were recently reclaimed land and no agricultural or 
industrial activities exist on the sites. Therefore, no resettlement action is needed for the 
constructed wetland component of the project. Instead, resettlement action will focus 
only on the future prohibition of aquaculture activities within the Wetland Center area.  
 
After the Cixi City Government designated the specific areas for the Wetland Center, 
field surveys were carried out by the resettlement consultant 
–
Hehai University – in 
November and December 2005 and March and April 2006. The Weltland Center would 
affect households in two townships: Zhouxian Town and Andong Town. It is confirmed 
that all rural households affected by the establishment of the Wetland Center already 
have other agricultural land (with an average 2.4 mu in Zhouxian and or 3.9 mu in 
Andong) in addition to their aquaculture activities in the Wetland Center. The 
establishment of the Wetland Center will not affect their use of these agricultural lands.  
 
Cixi City has had extensive experience in coastal zone reclamation and compensation 
issues associated with the termination of temporary use rights. Users of land under the 
reclamation process understand that their land use rights are temporary and there are 
long-established local procedures for dealing with this issue. Cixi has an impressive 
record in providing adequate compensation for local farmers affected by reclamation 
activities. For this GEF project, Cixi has adapted their compensation policies to meet the 
Bank’s resettlement requirements.  
 
The project identified that the households affected by the Wetland Center can be 
classified into four types based on aquaculture activities: (1) households engaging in crab 
or fish farming in tidal marsh, i..e, aquaculture farmers; (2) households engaging in 
fishing with preset nets on tidal mudflats, i.e., aquaculture netters; (3) households using 
boats to fish in the Wetland Center, i. e., fishermen; and (4) households occasionally 
picking sea products (mainly clams and snails) on tidal mudflats, i.e., pickers. The 
following table summarizes the number of households engaged in each activity.  
 
Aquaculture Farmers: Tidal Wetlands 
Fishermen 
Aquaculture Netters: Tidal 
Mudflats 
Occasional and Informal Pickers  
 
Households 
54 40 50 -- 
 
 
Population 168 120 150 13 
villages 
 
 
Area 
(Mu) 
2508 
-- -- Tidal 
Mudflats 
 
 
Note: There is an overlap of 30 households between aquaculture farmers and netters.  
 
Resettlement Entitlement: Due to the common practice of land reclamation along the 
Cixi Coast the use rights of households for aquaculture activities are universally 
understood to be temporary and subject to government regulation. In order to comply 
with Bank policy, Cixi City government agreed to compensate aquaculture farmers, 
fishermen, and netters with replacement costs for all assets, such as ponds, huts, gates, 
bamboo, nets, boats, etc. Auaculture farmers and fishermen are required to obtain a 
license to utilize the coastal area, and approximately 80% of the households have paid 
Page  8
their license fees. Households which do not have a license can purchase one and receive 
full replacement cost, or they have the option of receiving reduced payment for their 
assets.  
 
Many rural households in the two towns near the wetland center have been involved in 
occasionally picking or digging of sea products on the entire mudflats outside of the sea 
dyke (inside and outside of the Wetland Center). The Bank team and Cixi officials 
recognize that the pickers have access to other parts of the mudflats and the establishment 
of the Wetland Center should actually improve overall productivity along the coastline. 
Although the pickers in these towns would probably be inconvenienced, it is not clear if 
they would not suffer an economic loss (and could in fact reap economic benefits due to 
increased yield). It is agreed that the Cixi government would provide an infrastructure 
development fund assistance to the affected villages of the two towns as compensation 
for the inconvenience from the Wetland Center. Such infrastructure development 
assistance should be provided based on broad consultation with farmers in these villages. 
Participatory consultation plan and methodology and the budget for village infrastructure 
development projects are detailed in the RAP.  
 
Income Restoration: All aquaculture farmers, fishermen and netters would be offered 
the following income restoration opportunities: i) additional agriculture land will offered 
for lease to the displaced households based on their requests, including a 10,000 RMB 
cash bonus from Cixi City (Cixi City has an abundance of available agricultural land due 
the reclamation activities; ii) free vocational training to take advantage of the booming 
economic development and strong local job market; and iii) eligibility for the local social 
insurance program which is usually not available to rural households.  
 
Information Disclosure: The RAP has been disclosed locally and at the World Bank 
Infoshop, and all potentially affected households have been surveyed and consulted. The 
draft RAP was disclosed in the World Bank Infoshop in February 2006 and the updated 
RAP was submitted in April 2006. The affected households would be informed would be 
informed again before the project starts at the appropriate time, and the PMO and 
Township government would support the displaced farmers in receiving their 
entitlements.  
 
Implementation and Monitoring: The Cixi Construction Bureau will be responsible for 
funding resettlement activities in coordination with local government officials. The 
resettlement office of the Ningbo NWEP PMO will supervise resettlement. Resettlement 
funds will be channeled through the Cixi Construction Bureau directly to households and 
villages, thus reducing opportunities for delay or unauthorized commissions. Village 
committees will play an important role in monitoring resettlement activities. An 
independent monitoring institute will supervise resettlement activities twice a year as 
required by the Bank. An appropriate grievance system has been formulated and will be 
set up to deal with any complaints. An independent resettlement monitor will be 
contracted to report on resettlement activities for Bank supervision missions.   
 
Page  9
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Cixi Coastline Development The Cixi Government understands the importance of the 
coastal habitat and intends to conserve significant wetland areas and promote eco-
tourism. This GEF project has been listed by Ningbo Municipal Government and Cixi 
City Government as one of the first pilot projects in building environmentally and 
ecologically friendly society under the macro Government of China’s policy to built 
“harmonized society” in its 11th Five Year Plan. Both Cixi and Ningbo governments 
therefore expect that further costal ecological and environmental projection plans will be 
developed and implemented through the demonstration of this GEF project.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Location and Size of  Constructed Wetlands: A comprehensive analysis was undertaken 
for the optimal location and size of the constructed wetlands. Four alternatives were 
considered for the North WWTP wetland. Comprehensive comparison among these 
options has been carried out with integrated consideration of technical, environmental, 
social and economic aspects. The final selection was made based on a series of criteria, 
e.g. capital investment, operational and maintenance costs, hydraulic loadings, pollutants 
removal efficiency and local development planning, etc.  
 
Wetland Center  Options: Various options were compared for the Environmental Center 
and enhancement and rehabilitation of the natural wetlands. For the Environmental 
Center, the two plans, one was a 10,000 square meter two level building, and one was a 
some 3,000 square meter building as the first stage were compared. After the consultation 
with Cixi Government and its GEF Technical Advisory Group, the later one was selected 
based on series considerations, including similar centers in other countries, staged 
development plan for the Center and financial implications, etc. For the natural land, 
three options were proposed for the enhancement and restoration of A1, A3 and A5. They 
include Alternative 1 focusing on A5 as the primary ecological zone, Alternative 2 
focusing both A5 and A1, and Alternative 3 focusing on A1. Alternative 3 was finally 
selected as the preferred option.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The same project management arrangements for NWEP, which is currently under 
implementation, will also apply to the GEF Ningbo Project. The NWEP Project 
Management Office (PMO) is responsible for overall coordination of the project, and the 
Cixi Municipal Construction Bureau (CMCB) which has been working with the Bank 
during NWEP preparation and implementation is responsible for project preparation and 
implementation.  In addition, Cixi City Government established a Project Leading Group 
headed by the Mayor and Executive Vice Mayor and a Project Technical Advisory Group 
formed by academia and professionals from Cixi and Ningbo government authorities. 
The capacity of the borrower to implement the EMP and RAP is considered adequate.   
 
Page  10
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key project stakeholders are the Ningbo and Cixi City Governments, Cixi Municipal 
Sewage Company, and local people who may lose land and livelihoods, villagers and 
communities that may be impacted because of the construction and operation of the 
project.  
 
Wide local consultation and dissemination of the project preparation documents and 
descriptions of the issues have been carried out since these are the primary means of 
informing stakeholders. Key stakeholders include the Ningbo and Cixi City government 
agencies, the Andong and Hangzhou Bay Economic Development Zones, the Bridge 
Company, local research institutes investigating Hangzhou Bay issues, citizens and 
fishermen along the Cixi coastlin
e, and local and international NGOs. With the Bank’s 
assistance, the Cixi City Government organized two stakeholder workshops in June and 
November 2005. Mayor and vice mayors of the Cixi City, key officials from Ningbo and 
Cixi government agencies, representatives from international and domestic NGOs, and 
professors from research institutes and universities working on Hangzhou Bay wetland 
issues participated the two stakeholder workshops, and heatedly debated how to pursue 
the GEF project in Cixi.  
 
The first workshop was designed to develop a “sustainable vision” for the GEF project. 
This workshop was successful in terms of informing all stakeholders about proposed 
project activities and motivating all stakeholders to present their personal or agencies’ 
views on the project. This workshop also decided that two studies on the constructed 
wetland and on the Wetland Center to be carried out to help stakeholders make 
scientifically sound decision. The second workshop was carried out by having key 
stakeholders comment on preliminary results of the two studies. Results of the two 
studies and suggestions of an internationally renown wetland scholar and practitioner 
provided scientific inputs for all stakeholders to reach an agreement on the proposed 
designs and the size of both the constructed wetland and Wetland Center. Both 
stakeholder workshops were recorded and broadcasted on local television channels. In 
addition, local newspapers have reported major milestones in project preparation.  
 
In addition to these two stakeholder workshops, an international study tour in August 
2005 provided an precious opportunity for key government officials from both the 
Ningbo Municipal and Cixi City Governments, representatives from the Wetlands 
International and SCIES to learn international practices in wetland construction and 
conservation and to develop a shared vision on the design of the wetlands of their 
interests.  
 
The final reports of the Studies on the Constructed Wetland and the Wetland Center 
were disclosed in the World Bank Infoshop in February and April 2006, and in Ningbo 
and Cixi libraries and government websites in February and April 2006.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Page  11
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/01/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/01/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/01/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/01/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/01/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/01/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
No 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
Yes 
Page  12
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Greg J. Browder 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Peishen Wang 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Zhefu Liu 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Glenn S. Morgan 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Keshav Varma 
 
Comments:   
