Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12444
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SECOND TnELCOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1810-TA)
NOVEMBER 2, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12444
Type: PCR
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restdcted ds oibutim and may be used by redplena only in the pertfonanae of
their ,fficd duties Its contents my nt oterwise be diosed w_t Wodd Bank suthulaton.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh)
Tsh 1  = US$ 83.72  (1987)
= US$ 125.00 (1988)
= US$ 192.30  (1989)
= US$ 196.60  (1990)
= US$ 233.90  (1991)
= US$ 325.00  (1992)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL          Direct Exchange Line
EAC          East African Community
ERP          Economic Recovery Program - 1986
ESAP         Economic and Social Action - 1989-1992
GOT          Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
IDA          International Development Association
MTC          Ministry of Transport and Communications
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program - 1982
TDP          Total Demand Potential
TPTC         Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
TRP          Telecoms Recovery Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE VORLD BANK
WasIlngton, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 2, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TUE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tanzania
Second Telecommunications Proiect (Credit 1810-TA)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Tanzania - Second
Telecommunications Project (Credit 1810-TA) prepared by the Africa Regional
Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
The project's physical components were completed without major cost
overrun but suffered delays due to procurement problems and turnover in project
management. Modernization of billing and accounting was only partially completed
due to design problems (incompatibility of computer hardware and software). Most
significantly, the project failed to keep TPTC (Tanzania's PTT agency) on a sound
financial footing. By 1988, TPTC had gone technically bankrupt. The Bank wvs
slow to respond, did not invoke remedies and, indeed, waited until 1989 to halt
processing a third project. Subsequent to the completion of the Second Project,
the Government did agree on a Plan of Action to restructure TPTC's finances,
under the Third Telecommunication Credit (No. 2486-TA), approved in April 1993.
On balance, the project's overall outcome is rated as unsatisfactory,
given TPTC's dismal financial situation throughout project implementation (an
unusual occurrence in telecommunications projects). The institutional impact is
rated as partial, and sustainability uncertain as it depends on the eventual
c4nsolidation of TPTC's financial rehabilitation. The PCR could have been more
thorough in its coverage of, intoe alia, the evolution of key operational
performance indicators, most recent financial results, and the evaluation of the
Bank's supervision performance.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
I This docwmsnt has a nestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



FOR OmCI4L USE ONLY
EM12 mmtnLfro=
Prefac .S
Trable gf C"ontents
Preface  ................................. *..................   14.
Evaluation  Summary   ...........................................    ii
Part I               ................................    1
1.  Project Identity .................................    1
2.  Backgrund           ..................................    1
3.  Project Objectives and Description ...............................   2
Sector Development Objecdves  ..............................   2
Project Objectives .......................................   2
Project Description ......................................   2
Part A. - Rehabilitation  ...  . ... ...............   2
Part B.- Technical Assistance and Training.    .............  3
4.  Project Design and Organization  ................................   4
5. Project Implementation ..................................  4
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up ............ .............   4
Implementation Schedule  ....S........ ,
Disbursements ........................  S
Credit Allocation .S.........     .......................   S
6.  Project Results .......................               , .       ,     ,       6
Physical Results ......................    6
Financial Results ......................    6
Human Resource Development.        .....................   9
7.  Project Susinabiity  .........................   9
8. Bank's Performance ....................                                        9
9.  Bornower's Performance ..................   10
10. Project Relaonships ..................   10
11. Consulting Serices .....................    .                                10
12. Project Doumetat ndDa  ....D..............   10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.d)
13. Rate of Retun  ........................   11
14. Lesson Learned From Experience  1.... ...........................   I I
Part    ............................                       !.                    12
Partt I ..........................  36
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ..
2. Project Tinetable.                                                              37
3. Credit Disbursements .38
4. Project Implementation.                                         .......... 39
5. Project Costs (US$miilion).                                                     4
5A. Credit Allocation ...............  4l
6. Project Results ...............  42
7. Status of Covenans ...............  43
8. Missions ............... 44
AnneL.
1.  Financial Statements                                                          4.



Second Telecommunicadons Prolect
Credit 1810 TA
Projlet Comtion Report
1.    This report covers the Second Telecomnmunications Project in Tanzania, supported by
Credit 1810-TA. The Credit for SDR 17.9 million to the United Republic of Tanzania on-
lent to Tanzania Posts and Teleconmmunications Corporation (TPTC) was signed on June 16,
1987, became effective on August 12, 1987 and was closed on December 31, 1992.
2.    Parts I and HI were prepared by Bank staff based on information available in the
project files and information supplied by TPTC.
3.    Part II has been prepared by the Borrower to give its perspective of the design,
iplementation and the development impact of the project.



- ii -
Ta-nznaa
Second Telecom,muncaions Project
Proiect Compleffon Rewrt
EvqluW9_n Summslr
Backrou_nd
1.    Public telecommunications services in Tanzania are provided by the Tanzania Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC). TPTC is a monopolistic g3vernment owned
institution responsible for operating, plannming, managing and developing of domestic an,
international public teleconmnunications and postal services. Tanzania has no
telecommunications manufacturing industry. The Corporation is administered by an eight-
member Board of Directors, whose Chairman and Director General are appointad by the
President of Tanzania. The other six members are appointed by the Minister of
Communications.
World Bank Involvement
2.    The World Bank Group has been associated with the telecommunications sector in
Tanania since 1966, first through the East African Community (EAC) and then directly with
Tanzania. The Bank approved 3 loans to EAC Telecommunications Corporation; a US$13
million loan in 1967 (Ln 483-EA), a US$10.4 million loan in 1970 (Ln 675-EA) and a third
loan of US$32.5 million in 1973 (Ln 914-EA). These were completed satisfactorily. The
first credit to Tanzania, following the breakup of EAC in 1977, was approved *n July 1982
(Credit 1173-TA) for SDR 22.1 million (US$27 million equivalent). The credit supported an
essentWial part of TPTC's 1980-86 investment program, focussing on service expansion to rural
areas and expansion of the network to unserved or underserved areas at the time, both urban
and nual. It also had a broad institutional objective of developing TPTC, mainly through
expandin training facilities. The second project (Credit 1810-TA) for SDR 17.9 million was
approved in June 1987. The Third project has been approved by the Board on April 27,
1993.
project Obiectives and Descrinton
3.    The project was designed to (a) addres the key institutional constraints of the sector
by strengthening TPTC's management, organization, financial and engineering systems to
maintain and operate the existing network, to undertake furither rehabilitation and to plan for
expansion; and (b) rehabilitate key parts of the network, removing bottlenecks and imbalances
to maximize capacity utilization of existing installations.
4.    The project was designed in line with the TPTC's 1986-90 Investment Program within
the framework of the country's Economic Recovery Program. The project's goals were to



- iii -
overcome the key constraints of the sector namely, (i) lack of management skills, systems,
and trained manpower; and (ii) lack of foreign exchange for essential maintenance and spares
and to provide for rehabilitation and expansion.
Proect Implementation
5.    The project start-up was smooth and on scheduie. TPTC, by undertaking advance
procurement action, avoided all initial delays. Both conditions of effectiveness namely, (i)
appointment of a project coordinator and (ii) signing of the Subsidiary Agreemnent; were
fulfilled on time and the Credit was made effective on August 12. 1987. Progress during the
flrst two years of implementation was reasonable, with about 90% of the IDA credit being
committed by the end of 1988. Since 1989, the project implementation activities started to
lag behind schedule and continued to do so throughout the span of the project. The main
problem with the implementation has been the inability of TPTC to rneet commitments in
respect of tariff increases and capital restructuring. This eventually led to deterioration in
relations between IDA and TPTC. In addition, delays due to renegotiation and re-bidding of
contracts previously approved led to the postponement of the project completion by one and a
half years. The closing date was first extended to June 30, 1992 and subsequently to
December 31, 1992.
Project Results
6.    Physical results: The implementation of the physical components of the project even
though delayed was as per expectations. Due to small modifications in the project in 1990,
there was a reallocation of fumds (Annex SA) from some rehabilitation components (outside
plant) to spares and technical assistance and training. Computerization of billing and of the
financial departnent was not completed due to selection of unsuitable hardware and
incompatible software.
7.    Financial results: Between 1987-1989 even though TPTC was operationally sound, as
a result of losses due to currency devaluation, the financial performance of the organization
has been poor in terms of profitability and liquidity. Since 1988, the organization was
virtually bankrupt, as highlighted by its negative equity position. The primary reasons for the
dismal performance of the entity were (i) unusually high non-operating expenses like
provisions and reserves in 1988; (ii) lack of appropriate tariff increases which led to decline
in revenues in real terms while operating costs continued to rise with inflation; (iii) high level
of outstanding bills receivable arising from inadequate collections and delays in issuing bills;
and (iv) devaluation of the Tanzanian Shilling. TPITC had to bear the foreign losses on its
loans which were mostly foreign currency denominated. In an effort to rectify the situation
the Govermnent took over US$34 million equivalent of TPTC's loans in 1990-91.
Proiect Sustainability
8.    A reliable telecommunications sector is crucial to the sustained economic recovery of
Tanzania. The main linkages between telecommunications and economic recovery are (i)
information requirements of business and government; (ii) the cost to the economy of an
unreliable telecommunications network including net external trade; (iii) the fiscal implications
of an efficient telecommunications operation; and (iv) the sector's inportance as a foreign



- iv -
exchange earner. Investment in the telecommunications sector therefore has to be a
continuous process though not necessarily through a public sector monopoly with
demonstrated inefficiency. The need for further improvement and expansion is evident and
IDA jointly with ADB, EEC, Denmark, Japan and Sweden, has undertaken to finance a third
telecommunications project in 1993. The Government and TPIC have taken the first steps
towards restructuring TPTC and the sector. A management performance contract has been
signed between TPTC and Governmnent, tariffs have been increased as per IDA's
recommendations, a Fixed Assets revaluation exercise has been effectively completed in 1992,
a Statement of Affairs has been prepared and the Govermnent has agreed to invest a portion
of IDA's credit as equity to TPTC.
Bank's Perforanc
9.    Overall Bank performance has been broadly satisfactory under adverse circumstances.
The Bank has mnade a positive impact on the physical and institutional development of the
organization. In the design of the project, the Ba. k could not foresee the institutional
difficulties that would arise in implementing tariff increases, billing ard collection and other
essental programs like capital restructuring. P' taking a firm stand in 1991 regarding the
preparation of the third project the Bank succeeded in convincing TPTC and Government to
initiate tariff adjustments, necessary policy and institutional improvements to overhaul the
telecommunications sector. Bank's support for this has also attracted cofinancing to support
TPTC.
Borrower's Performnce
10.   During the implementation stage there were several major lapses on the part of TPTC
in achieving performance indicators presented in the Stauf Appraisal Report. The most critical
lapse has been in financial management rather than operational performance primarily in the
areas of billing and collections and delays in increasing ta    in line with inflation and late
submission of unaudited and audited fnancial statements. Since the Government had the
authority to increase tariffs, that tariffs were not increased as required, was not entirely
TPTC's fault, however, even when TPTC was empowered to raise tariffs they did not do so
effectively. Other problems included inability to complete on time action plans and
implementation of capital restructuring and manpower planning. During the project period,
TPITC's net profits went from Tsh 435 million to a negative TSh 10.3 million.
Proiect Relationships
11.   Bank relationship with the Govermment and TPTC were initially good but had
deteriorated in the light of TPTC's poor performance. The relationship has now been
restored as it has become clear that IDA's concerns were essentially in the company's best
interests.
Project Documentation and Data
12.   The credit and project agreements 1810-TA were adequate and appropriate for
achieving project objectives in the key organizational and financial areas. The Appraisal



Report of the project provided a useful framework for the Bank and TPTC to review
implementation. TP1TC provided regular progress reports on implementation during 1987-
1990 after which time they were delayed and infrequent.
Lesson Learned From Experience
13.   The most important lesson that has been learned from this project is that unless Public
Enterptises are held to strict operational and financial target. 4 .y will have little incentive to
take the often painful managerial measures to achieve efficieiu;y and profitability. In this
project most of the components of the project were committed within the first two years, and
the borrower had almost no incentive subsequently to fulfill conditionalities. In fact, it was
only because IDA took a firm stand to suspend processing the third project that many of the
critical elements like capital restructuring and tariff increases have been achieved. In
addition, for improved efficiency there is a need for increased financial and managerial
autonomy for the operating entity.



Ta~nznia
Second Tel-conuunicatons Prolc
Credit 1810 TA
fpiect Comnlilon Renort
1.    Project Identi_y
1.01   Title              Second Telecommunications Project
Credit No           1810 - TA
RVP Unit           AFR
Country            Tanzania
Sector             AF2PE
Subsector          Telecommunications
2. *   Bk a   Mk
2.01   Public telecommunications services in Tanzania are provided by the Tanzania Posts
and Telecomnumications Corporation (TPTC). TPTC was established by the Tanzan  Posts
and Teleomunications Corporation Act of December 2, 1977, following the break-up of the
East African Community. TPC is a monopolistc government owned insutution responsible
for operating, plaming, managing and developing domestic and inttional public
telecommunications and postal serices. In addition to the public telecommunications
services, dedicated networks exist to meet the specialized requiements of the police, military,
rai'ways, and civil aviation. Other private users also operate radio call services in areas
inadequately served by public networks. Tanzania has no telecommunicatons manufacuring
industry. The Corporation is administered by an eight-member Board of Directors, whose
Chairman and Director General are appointed by the President of Tanania. The other six
members are appointed by the Minister of Communications. The current organizational
structure is attached as Annex 1.
2.02 The World Bank Group has been associated with the telecommunications sector in
Tanzania since 1966, first through the East African Community (EAC) and then directly with
Tanzania. The Bank approved 3 loans to EAC Telecomnmnications Corporation; a US$13
million loan in 1967 (Ln 483-EA), a US$10.4 million loan in 1970 (Ln 675-EA) and a third
loan of US$32.5 milion in 1973 (Ln 914-EA). These were crompleted satisfactorily. The
first credit to Tanzania, following the breakup of EAC in 1977, was approved in July 1982
(Credit 1173-TA) for SDR 22.1 million (US$27 million equivalent). The credit supported an
essental part of TPITC's 1980-86 invesment program, focussing on service expansion to rural
areas and expansion of the network to unserved or undereved areas at the time, both urban
and rral. It also had a broad institutional objective of developing TPTC, mainly through



2-
expanding training facilities. This project was closed on June 1987. 18 months behind
schedule (PCR dated May 17, 1990 Report No. 8662). The second project (Credit 1810-TA)
for SDR 17.9 million was approved in June 1987. The Third project has been approved by
the Board on April 27, 1993.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01 Sector Development ObJectives: Having realized the crucial importance of the
teleconununications sector to the Government of Tanzania's (GOT) overall Economic
Recovery Program, and in particular, to achieve the targeted growth in exports and increased
efficiencies in all sectors, the main telecommunications sector goais were to:
(a)   increase operational efficiency and quality of service through network
rehabilitation, introduction of an effective maintenance program and improved
management systems, and staff development.
(b)   ensure that revenues cover operating costs and contribute significantly to
investments;
(c)    generate revenues for the Government; and
(d)   extend service to the rural areas.
3.02   Proiect Objecives
The project was designed to address the constraints of the sector by:
(a)    Sw,ngthening TPTC's mnangement, organization, financial and engineering
systems to maintain and operate the existing network, to underake further
rehabilitation and to plan for expansion; and
(b)   rehabilitating key parts of the network, removing bottlenecks and imbalance to
maximize capacity utilization of existing installations.
3.03    oect esariimiDn
The project comprised of the following components:
Part A. - Rehabilitation:
(a)    Provision of equipment for rehabilitation of local cable networkm and
subscriber facilities;
(b)   replacement of worn out or obsolete switching and transmission equipment,
including marginal expansion where justified by subsntial excess demand;
(c)   installation of new transit exchanges for local and interational traffic and a
satellite earth station for international services;



-3-
(d)   upgrading of maintenance facilities by providing tool and test equipment.
spare parts and specialized vehicles, training equipment. upgrading the stores and the
repair facilities in workshops; and
(e)    upgrading the computer facilities for: (i) introduction of management
information systems; and (ii) automation of local cable and subscriber data to ensure
optimum utilization of existing resources.
Part B. - Technical Assistance and Training:
(a)   strengthening TPTC's organizational structure and management systems;
(b)   strengthening TPTC's training programs; and
(c)    overseas training for about 40 staff;
3.04   The project had been conceived to (a) rehabilitate the country-wide long distance
networks (46% of the total Project costs); (b) rehabilitate local networks (35%); (c) improve
international facilities (12%); and (d) enhance TPTC's management capabilities (7%).
3.05 The total cost of the program was estimated at Tsh 3,575 million (US$65 million)
with a foreign exchange component of Tsh 2,860 million (US$ 52 million). The sources of
financing are summarized in Table 3.1 below. The project's foreign exchange costs of
US$49.0 million would be financed by ADF, Italian Aid, Japan and Swedish Govermnent Aid
and the IDA credit. Local currency financing, estimated at US$11.0 million equivalent would
be financed by TPTC through internally generated funds.



- 4-
Table 3.1 - Project Financing (USS millions)
Local      Foreign        Total   % of Total
IDA                -           23           23           39
ADF                -            5            5            8
Italy              -           t0           10           17
Sweden             -           11           11            18
TPTC              11            -            -            18
Total             11           49           60           100
4.    Projiect Design and Organization
4.01   The project was designed in line with TPTC's 1986-90 Investment Program within the
framework of the Economic Recovery Program and consistent with the sector goals. The
project rehabilitation and implementation of works were a continuation of the First
Telecomnications Project. The project was designed to address and overcome the key
constraints of the sector namely:
(i) Lack of Magemem  skills. svstems and trained manpower throughout the
organization. Particular weaknesses were identified in manpower planning, budgeting
and cost control, maintenance, customer services and data processing capabilites.
Under a PPF of US$581,000 approved in November 1986, consultants were employed
to do a comprehensive review of the organization and management in the
administrative, technical and financial disciplines and remmend correctve measures.
Based on the consultants recommendations technical assistance amounting to 140 man-
months was provided under the project for implemention according to the action
plan agreed during negotiations. It was agreed that TPTC with the assistance of the
consultants, prepare an action plan by December 1987 and commence implementation
of the recommended measures through (a) resmtrcring of its organizaton structure
and management procedures: (b) establishing profit centers; and (c) contracting out
those activities which can be handled more efficiently by other external agencies.
(ii) Lack of forejan exchan,e: TPTC's limited access to foreign exchange had resulted
in severe shortages of essentWa spare parts and routine operational requiements. As a
result, the quality of service had continued to decline in most areas. The project was
designed. to provide foreign exchange to meet the urgent reqments of services,
equipment and matials for rehabilitation and maintenance and to establish sufficient
stock levels for project implementation and to achieve a minium inventory level of
six months by the project completion targeted to be December 31, 1990.
5.    Project Inplementation
5.01   Credit Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up: To minimize possible delays, advance
procurement activity had been unetaken by TPTC, including IDA's review of all



- 5 -
procurement packages it would finance. By April 30. 1987. TPTC had finalized and
submitted to IDA for review and clearance. bid documents for 50% (by value) pf IDA
financed items. The two conditions of effectiveness for the project were: (a) TPTC and the
Government to sign a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA, whereby US$23 million
equivalent of the proceeds of tic IDA credit would be onlent to TPTC at 7.92% for 20 years
with TPTC bearing the foreign exchange risks and including 4 years of grace; and (b) a
project coordinator to be appointed under the terms of reference and conditions of service to
be agreed between TPTC and IDA. Given (i) the early progress made with procurement
arrangement and (ii) the experience gained in the sector under the First project, the project
was expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
5.02   The Project Coordinator was appointed in May 1987 and the Subsidiary Agreement
between GOT and TPTC was signed in August 1987. Both conditions being fulfilled without
delays, the credit was made effective on August 12, 1987 as per schedule.
5.03  Implementation Schedule: Progress during the first year of implementation was very
good. 60% of the IDA credit was conmmitted by June 1988 with tenders being anmounced for
another 30%. Since 1989, the project implementation activities started to lag behind schedule
and continued to do so throughout the span of the project. Delays due to renegotiation and
re-bidding of contracts previously approved led to the postponement of the project compledon
by one and a half years. According to Para 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement the
Project Closing date was determined to be June 30, 1991. On April 10, 1991 the closing date
was extended to June 30, 1992 upon the request of the Government of Tanzania. On June 26,
1992, in order to facilitate the execution of committed contracts, the closing date was further
extended to December 31, 1992. The main reasons for the lag in project implementation
were: (i) The Project Coordinator left TPTC 18 months after the project commenced; (ii)
even though about 90% of the physical components were committed and cleared by IDA,
TPTC's Board of Directors, decided to renegotiate a number of such contracts and in some
cases re-bid; and (iii) the Board did not approve any tariff increases between March 1990 and
October 1991. Issues (ii) and (iii) finally led to the deterioration of relations between TPTC
and IDA in 1991. One problem that TPTC and the Bank supervision mission faced through
the implementation period of the project was that the Minister of Communications was
replaced five times and therefore a stable relationship with him could not be built up.
5.04   12isbureme: Disbursement had been as per schedule during the first two years of
the Project. Progress on procurement, disbursement and tariff increases during this period
allowed a rating of 1. Since 1990, disbursements have been constantly lagging and because of
delays in processing procuremen documentation, the project completion date had to be
extended twice. The project rating was dropped to 3 during 1990-92. Although the appraisal
report stated that disburement would be made through FY95 based on standard disbursement
schedules for Tanzania, during negotiations it was agreed that the project would be completed
by June 1991, by which time disburement would be conpleted.
5.05   Credit All    : The original and revised allocation and the actual disbursement by
categories for Credit 1810-TA are shown in Part m. The original allocation was revised on
November 10, 1988 to reflect the changes in increased financing for equipment and spares
and consultants and training.



-6-
6.    Proiect Results
6.01   Physical Results: Even though physical implementation of the project has been
according to expectation. the execution became slow and in some cases unproductive. For
exampJe. the Wang computer installud for improving the financial data processing was
ineffective because of the obsolescence of its tectmology by the time it was installed. In
addition, the software that was installed was not totally compatible. As a result, the computer
is being discarded and a new system is being reconumended under the IDA-111 project. The
following progress had been made under the project:
(i,    Cables and accessories for rehabilitation of the outside plant for which US$4
million had been allocated initially and subsequently changed to US$2.1 million has
been disbursed and implemented; spares were procured for switches, microwave
systems., power and air-conditioning equipment;
(ii)   1,000 line digital exchanges were installed in Mtwara and Singida in 1992-93;
(iii)   New digital exchanges have been installed in Tanga and Moshi and additional
trunk lines installed in other regions.
(iv)   Terminal equipment consisting of 19,000 sets, 420 telex terminals, 140
payphones and 315 switchboards were installed in 1990-92;
(v)   Call logging equipment (the "tiger" system) were installed in the international
exchanges;
6.02   Financial Results: During the period between FY85-91 the financial performance of
TPTC was poor both in terms of cash flows and net profitability. TPTC's dramatic
deterioration in performance is highlighted by the change in earnings during this period.
From a net profit of Tsh 435 million in 1985, profitability declined to a net loss of Tsh
10,295 million in 1989. The financial statements of TPTC are attached as Annex 2. During
the period 1987-89 the operational performance was up to expectations but due to foreign
exchange losses and interest on loans, the net profitability declined. Some financial indicators
are presented in the following table:



- 7 -
Income Statements
(Tshs Million)
198S   1986    1987   1988  1989    1990   1991
Telephone                        1,148   1.343   2.420   3,536  4.909   8.098   9.457
Telex                              170    276    560   1.019  1.934   2.680   2,445
Telegraph                           27     87      53      77    78      78      99
Other Revenue                        8    301    101    224   227    250    403
Telecoms Opera  Revenue           1,353  2,007   3,134   4.855  7,148  11.106  12.404
Tdecoms Operating Expesem          631   1,624   2,453   3.701  5,173   8,630  14,600
Net Telecoms Operadng Income      7r2     383    681   1.155  1,975   2,476  (2.196)
Net Postal Operating Income (Loss)  26   (34)       7      10  (37)  (254)  (412)
Less: Interest on Loans             14     56    309    255  3,615   1.456    795
Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss)      (48) (2,328)  (3,705) (2,650) (5.269)  (494)  (358)
Net Profit (Loss)                  435 (2,146)  (4,666) (6,272)(10.295)  (228) (3,761)
6.03   The main reasons for the dismal performance of TPTC were:
(a)    The lack of appropriate tariff adjustment measures from 1990 onwards to
overcome the high rate of inflation and the devaluation of the Tanzanian Shilling.
Whereas inflation over the 6 year period 1985-91 was around 1,000% and whereas
the Tanzanian Shilling devalued from an exchange rate of Tsh 16,50 = US$1 in 1985
to Tsh 225 = US$1 in 1991, tariff increases amounted to only 300% over the same
period. As a result of the imbalance between increases in costs and revenues,
operaton and maintenance expenses increased from 14% of gross operating revenues
(GOR) in 1985 to around 76% in 1991.
(b)    High level of bills receivables continue to be a major bottleneck to the
liquidity position of the organization. In 1987, bills receivables amounted to the
equivalent of 569 days of revenues, resulting in a negative internal cash generation of
Tsh 3,064 million. The shortage of liquidity and short term financing led to negative
working capital during the period 1988-91, which has in turn impeded maintenance
and routine operations. The shortfall in worldng capital is reflected by the decliing
curren ratio from 2.3 in 1985 to 0.6 in 1991. The high level of receivables is the
result of (i) poor collections policy and (ii) delays in billing. A major objective of the
IDA II project was to institute an effective billing and collections system. IDA
supervision missions had during 1987-89 made regular 80/20 analyses to implement a
incentive based collections procedure for the higher-revenue yielding 20% of the
customers. Consultants had made various recommendatons, however the
recommendations were never effectively incorporated over any reasonable period. In
1990, a collections policy was in effect and efforts were made to visit customers
(including visits by supervision missions) with substanial oustandings and a
disconnecton policy was approved but never stricdy enforced. By early 1991 since
the measures were not consistently implemented the collections policy did not achieve



expected results. During 1990-92 the billing system deteriorated further to the extent
that the amount of outstanding debts to TPTC could not be ascertained with any level
of accuracy. The issue was highlighted in the Auditors Report of 199f. Under the
IDA III project, a study is underway to determine accurately the level of outstanding
bills receivables.
(c)   In addition to poor collections and delays in billing, there is a high level of
non-billing present in the sector. It appears that at least 30% of the traffic goes
unbilled. This problem had been highlighted in IDA supervision reports and
recommendations to improve the situation were made in 1990. Under the IDA II
project, funding was made available to finance the "Tiger" systern, which had been
effectively used in many countries to overcome the problem. Even though the
system was installed in 1991, its impact was not up to expectations. It is apparent
that non-billing continues to be a major hinderance to the profitability of the
organization. As one of the objectives of the proposed IDA III project, technical
assistance will be provided to institute stringent controls on the billing and collections
process.
(d)    The continual devaluation of the Tanzanian Shilling has probably been the
most binding external constraint to the financial deterioration of the entity. Sectors
such as telecommunications, where the foreign currency component of capital
expenditure is almost 80% of the investment program, have been most seriously
impacted. In TPTC, foreign exchange losses as a result of currency devaluation
increased from Tsh 48 million in 1985 to a staggering Tsh 5,269 million in 1989.
The problem had been exacerbated by the refusal of the Treasury to accept TPTC's
request to make debt service payments to the Treasury in local currency. If accepted
this would have produced a completely different performance scenaro for the entity.
The issue of carrency had been addressed in the IDA U project from the appraisal
stage. TPTC was required to present to IDA a proposal for restructuring by
December 31, 1988. However, no proposals were prepared until 1990 when the Bank
took a position to discontinue processing the IDA m credit unless a restructuring
proposal was presented. Only the organization's debt has been restrctred. As part
of the restructuring process the Govermnent assumed US$34 million equivalent of
TPTC's debt. This considerably improved the financial situation, reducing foreign
losses from Tsh 5,269 million in 1989 to Tsh 494 million in 1990 and Tsh 358 in
1991. TPTC will be completely restructred under the IDA m project to maintain a
Debt Equity ratio of 1.5 from the dtird year of effectiveness.
6.04 It is worth noting that although operating expenses increased, expenses on salaries and
wages actally declined from 19% of GOR In 1985 to 13.3% in 1989. The failure to increase
staff compensation in the face of hyperinfiation led to a demoralized work-force and therefore
substantal inefficiencies crept into the organization which further affected the organiztion's
performance. Under the IDA II project, TPTC was required to institute an incentive scheme
to improve performance. The scheme was introduced in 1990 on an experimental basis in
certain regions for a short period. The scheme did not prove successful becuse of the
inability to meas=ue performance for the operational/engineering staff and therefore was
abandoned shortly thereafter. In 1992 an incetive scheme has been introduced which appears



-9-
to be successful. Approximately 30% of the staff have received bonuses during the first 2
months of the program.
6.05   The financial situation of TPTC reached its lowest ebb in 1989, when it was
technically bankrupt. The Organization had a net negative equity of Tsh 19.456 million
comprised primarily of accumulated losses amounting to Tsh 22,734 million.
6.06  Throughout most of the project period it was never possible to take any corrective
action based on the rate of return and self financing indicators as all financial and accounting
data or information was always too late. This constraint, highlighted during the completion
report of the First IDA project, was addressed during the first year of inplementation of the
IDA II project through employrnent of consultants. The Rate of Return on Fixed Assets (of at
east 12%) as defincd by IDA, covenanted in the Project Agreement was complied with. It
must be mentioned that this rate of return as calculated umder IDA's prescription does not take
into account interest on loans and more importantly, foreign exchange losses. Since 1990,
financial statements have been consistently delayed and inaccurate (as reported by the external
Auditors).
6.07   Human Resource Developmen: The project by supporting the telecommunications
training institutions in Tanzania and through various fellowships and tramining programs
overseas contributed to considerable strengthening of the human resource support of TPTC.
Under the IDA II project about 28 officials have been provided overseas training and about
120 staff-months of consultants have been funded to provide training in Tanzania. Also,
about 17 fellowships were offered courses in management of training functions and about 4
fellowships in post graduate studies in telecoms technology and management. Hardware and
software for PC trainng system have been installed. Training equipment for satellite
comnmnications was procured but has not yet been installed.
7.    Project Sustainabilitv
7.01   A reliable telecommunications sector is crucial to the sustained economic recovery of
Tanzania, The main linkages between telecommunications and economic recovery are (i)
information requirements of business and government; (ii) the cost to the economy of an
unreliable telecommunications network; (iii) the fiscal implications of an efficient
telecommunications opertion; and (iv) the sector's importance as a foreign exchange earner.
Investment in the telecommunications sector therefore has to be continuous process.
8.    Bank's Perfonnance
8.01   Despite the Bank's best efforts the Borrower's financial performance deteriorated and
it went into bankruptcy over the project period. The Bank has made a positive impact on the
physical and instiutonal development of organizaion. In the design of the project, the Bank
could not have foreseen the insttutional difficulties that arose in implementing tariff increases
and other essential program like capital restucring, however, by taking a firm stand in 1991
to suspend processing the third project wi61 the backing of major donors, it was able to
institute the necessary policies and agreement through conditionalities requisite for the
preparation of the third project. Bank's support for this has also attracted cofinancig to
support the IDA II and HI projects.



- 10-
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.01   There have been several major lapses on the part of TPTC in achieving performance
indicators presented in the Staff Appraisai Report. During the project period, TPTC's net
profits went from Tsh 435 million to a negative TSh 10.3 million. Annex 3 contains the
review of TPTC's performance in comparison to the performance indicators mentioned in
Annex 12 of the SAR. The most critical lapse has been in financial management rather than
operational performance primarily in the area of billing and collections and delays in
increasing tariffs in line with inflation and late submission of unaudited and audited financial
statements. Since only the Government had the authority to increase tariffs, it was not
entirely TPTC's fault that tariffs were not increased as required, however, even when TPTC
was empowered to raise tariffs they did not do so effectively. Oth'er problems included
inability to complete on time, action plans and implementation of capital restructuring and
manpower planning.
10.   Proiect Relationships
Bank relationship with the Government and TPTC were initially good but had deteriorated in
the light of TPITC's poor perfonnance. The relationship has now been restored as it has
become clear that IDA's concerns were essentially in the company's best interests.
11.   Consulting Servic
11.01 Consultancy services and technical assistance comprised about 13% of the IDA credit.
Consultants were initially employed under the PPF to undertake a comprehensive review of
the organization and management in the adnministrative, technical and financial disciplines,
identifying weaknesses, and have recommended corrective measures. The assignment was
completed in 1987 and formed the basis for an institutional restructuring, manpower and
training program for the project. During the implementation of the Project, consultants were
employed to provide assistance for engineering activities, namely project planning, Materials
Management and data processing capabilities. The assignment covered transfer of managerial
expertise to TPTC. The consultants' performance in the implementation of billing and
financial systems had been less than acceptable. This was because of the lack of coordination
between the consultants and TPTC. As a result, the financial and billing systems were not
effectively established and has been earmarked for re-implementation under the THird Credit.
Consultants were effectively employed in performiing Fixed Assets revaluation which was
completed in 1992.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01 The credit and project agreements 1810-TA were appropriate for achieving project
objectives in the key organizational and financial areas. The Appraisal Report of the project
provided a useful framework for the Bank and TPTC to review implementation. TPTC
provided regular progress reports on implementation during 1987-1990 after which time they
were delayed and infrequent.



13.   Rate of Return
13.01 The rate of return for the project is as follows:
1987  1988   1989  l92Q
Rate of Return on Revalued Fixed Assets      11%   11%    12%    16%
The calculations are based on expected revalued cost of assets at US$1,500 per
connected Direct Exchange Line. The rate of return is in compliance with IDA's expected
rate of return of 12%.
14.   Lesson Learned From Experience
14.01 The most important lesson that has been learned from this project is that unless Public
Enterprises are held to meeting strict operational and financial targets, they will have little
incentive to take the often painful managerial measures to achieve efficiency and profitability.
In this project since most of the components of the project were committed within the first
two years, the borrower had almost no incentive to fulfill conditionalities. In fact, it was only
because IDA took a firm stand to suspend processing the third project that many of the critical
elements like capital restructuring and tariff increases have been achieved. This project also
provides evidence of problems that may arise in fast disbursing projects. Another important
lesson that is learned from the project is the importance of regular tariff adjustments in line
with inflation for the sustained financial viability of the telecommunications sector.



- 12 -
TANZANIA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Credit 1810-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   PREFAC                        PA RT 1
- This Project-Completion -Report. (PCR) presents a review of
Credit 1810 - TA of SDR 17.9 Million (USS 23.0 million
equivalent) for the Second Telecommunications Project of the
Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC) for
telecommunication development. Credit 1810 - TA was approved
and was declared effective in August 1987 and was closed in
December 1992, 12 months behind schedule.
The PCR is based. interalia, on the Staff Appraisal Report;
the Credit, Guarantee, and Project Agreements. supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower
2.   EVALUAT&IQp SMABX
2.1 OB ECTIVUS
The   current   deteriorated   state   of   the   Tanzanian
telecommunications network and consequent poor quality of all
telecommunications  services  are  severe  constraints  on
Tanzanian  economic   development,   particularly   of   the
agricultural and other productive sectors which play a key
role in the Tanzanian economy. The project aimed at reducing
these constraints through rehabilitation, building up the
supply of spares, and limited expansion of physical facilities
to improve overall performance and to ensure that the now and
rehabilitated assets were maint;ined.
A further objective is the institutional development of TPTC,
with special emphasis on utilisation of financial and
technical tools to improve management performance and
efficiency.
2.2  JIumemntatlon Exoerience
Substantial delays in loan effectiveness were caused initially
by loan disbursement process/procedure to Tanzania. This was
however later streamlined, by greation of special A-c'bynt in
Deutsche  Bank,  New  York,  Branch.        The  project: was
..  -~--'--j b* in December, 1992 about a year behind
the original appraisal schedule. Delays in civil worht and
lack of cables for Moshi and Tanga delayed the completion of
outside plant works. In this case, the local cable ne,tworks
a substantial part of cables and accessories under the project
were utilised for rehabilitation, operation and maintenance
due to lack of foreign exchange for this purpose.



- 13 -
Despite these factors, TPTC's efforts in successfully
processing procurement and in the executing the project
components resulted in timely implementation of the project.
2.3 Besult
The projects physical targets were achieved as planned. The
financial perform4nce of TPTC over the project period (1987 -
92) was satisfactory. The tariff raise and TPTC's subsequent
action incorporating a trigger mechanism linking international
tariffs, to currency devaluation has helped TPTC's financial
performance.



- 14 -
THE PJROET_
1.   BBGON
TPTC   was   established   by   the   Tanzani3   Posts   and
Telecommunications Corporation Act of December 2. 1977,-
following the break-up of the East African Community. TPTC is
an  autonomous  government   -  owned  public  corporation
responsible for all domestic and international postal and
telecommunications  services  in  Tanzania.    It  commenced
operations on February 3, 1978.   In addition to the public
telecommunications network operated by TPTC, dedicated
networks exist to meet the specialized requirements of the
police, military, railway and civil aviation services.
Private users are licenses to operate radio link services in
areas inadeqgately served by the public network. Tanzania has
no  telecommunications  manufacturing  industry.    TPTC  is
responsible for the establishment expansion' operation and
maintenance  of  all  local,  national  and  international
telecommunication services.  The national development plans
give priority to rural development and dispersal of the
development efforts. In accordance with national objectives,
TPTC directs its yearly investment programes towards
improving the poor quality of existing services and addressing
the heavy demand for new telephone connections to provide
access to the Telecommunications network.
2.   PIIQJT OJETIVESf AND DESCRI
2.1  Proiect obiectives
The   current   deteriorated   state   of   the   Tanzanian
telecommunications netw7rk and consequent poor quality of all
telecommunications  services  are  severe  constraints  on
Tanzanian   economic   development,   particularly   of   the
agricultural and productive sectors which play a key role in
the Tanzanian economy.   The project aims at reducing these
constraints through rehabilitation, building up the supply of
spares, and limited expansion of physical facilities to
improve overall performance and to ensure that the new And
rehabilitated assets are maintained. A further objective is
the institutional development of TPTC, with special emphasis
on utilisation of financial and technical tools to improve
management perfomance and efficiency.



- 15 -
2.3 Prolect Description
The prolect comorises:
a)   Rehabilitation of cables and subscriber  dist ribution
networks and provision of equipment to relieve traffic
congestion to improve quality of service;
b)   Upgrading of maintenance by:
i)   strengthening maintenance units;
ii) upgrading stores, garage and workshops;
iii) providing tools, instruments, spare parts and
specialised vehicles.
iv) partial financing of recurrent maintenance costs;
c)   Provision   of   ancillary   equipment,   power   and
airconditioning; computer hardware and software, civil
works materials and training equipment.
d)   Provision of fellowships and staff training.
e)   Provision  of  consultant  services  to  enhance  TPTC's
capabilities in project planning, monitoring and control;
equipment installation, operational and maintenance;
finance and accounting; stores and material management.



- 16 -
3.              S?AFP A31? AND PEMSC= FINANCIN
The World Bank Staff Appraisal Report No.6728 - TA of 5th May,
1987 is the blueprint of the project. The size of the project
and the cost by category is a shown below:-
.    ~  MILLION USi
ITEN
LOCAL     FOREIGN   TOTAL
COST       COST
1.  Local cable Network               2.0        6.3       8.3
2.  Switching equipment cost          0.4        13.7      14.1
components and spares
3.  Radio and Transmission            0.4         5.5      5.9
Equipment, Components and
spares
4.  Tolephones, Teleprinters          0.6        3.2       3.8
and switchboards
S.  Earth Station                     0.4        9.2       9.6
6.  Vehicles, Power Plants.
Airconditioning, Repair           3.S       3.2        6.7
Centre, Workshop equipment,
training equipment, Civil
works, Materials and .  _   .
spares.
7.  Technical Assistance and          0.3         3.4      3.7
TraininS
8.  Physical Continsencies            0.4         2.2      2.6
9.  Price Contingencies               0.3         2.3      5.3
TOTAL PROJECTS COST.             11.0       49.0   40.0
In conceiving the Second Telecommunications Project, the Worid Bank
Staff Appraisal Report looked at the total network requtrement
first.   Projects which could attract  bilateral  aid/loan were
identified and IDA undertook to finance the remaining projects
which although could not a-.ract bilateral aid/loan are ndcessary
projects for efficient performance of the total network.



- 17 -
The project financing is distributed as follows:-
MILLION USS
SOURCE         __________
LOCAL     FOREIGN    TOTAL    % TOTAL
IDA               _        23.0       23.0         39
AfDB              _         5.0        5.0          8
ITALY             -        10.0       10.0         17
SWEDEN            -        11.0       11.0         18
TPTC             11.0        -        11.0         18
TOTAL            11.0      49.0       60.0        100
The project foreign costs of USS 49.0 million equivalent would
be financed by AfDB, Italian Aid, Swedish Government Aid and
the IDA Credit.  Local currency financing, estimated at USS
11.0 million equivalent, would be provided by TPTC through
internally generated funds.
The IDA Credit of USS 23.0 million equivalent would be on lent
to TPTC at 7.92% interes for 20 years including a 4 years
grace period.  The grants from SIDA and Italy will be on lent
to TPTC  under  the  same  concessionary  terms  as  to  the-
Government. The loan from AfDB will be on lent to TPTC on the
same terms as the IDA Credit.
TPTC would bear the foreign exchange risks. The execution of
the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and TPTC,
acceptable to rDA is a condition of credit effectiveness. The
IDA financed segment of the program comprises high priority
creditical elements, particularly for spare parts, maintenance
and institutional development and can stand on its own, cross
effectiveness  conditions   are  thorefore   not   required.
M reover, the parallel financing AfDB, SIDA and the Italian
-aSwernment is largely confirmed.



- 18 -
4.   STATUS OF  FIJNANCXXQ OF VARIOUS PQIECTS  BY OTHER DONOR
FIfNCIER IX THE SECOND TELECONUN ICATION PROJQC.
4.1 AIML LOAN:i
USS 4,550,000 have been made available by AfDB for the
procurement of two 4,000 lines each digital exchanges for
Kigoma and Bukoba and for the purchase of microwave radio
equipment to link Tanzania with other countries in KBO region.
These are lines across the borders to Rwanda, Burundi as
Uganda.   KB0 was the executing agency  for  the Project.
Fujitsu represented by Marubeni and Siemens have been the
contractors for the supply of switching equipment and radio
equipment respectively. The exchanges and .;adio systems have
been commissioned.
4.2  ITALIAN FINANCING:
Bilateral Aid
Italy made available 11,270 million Liras for the supply and
installation of a Standard A Earth Station, including power
plant. Factory Training to six TPTC staff has been provided.
The Standard A Earth Station has been commissioned.   TPTC
financed and constructed civil works.  Also, made available
funds, USS 3,766,870 for the supply and installation of Nwanza
- Musoma 34mb/s digital microwave system. The equipment has
been installed and it will be commissioned shortly.   Also,
factory training to TPTC staff has been provided.
4.3 SIDA ASSISTANCE TO TPTC
During this period SIDA's assistance comprises of the
following elements:-
a)   Consultancy contract including reimbursables related to
the services as specified in the Specific Agreement.
b)   Pellowships/training for TPTC staff which had a direct
relation to the programme.
c)   Import  support  Funds  for  0,e  Implementation of  the
SIDA/TPTC projects.



- 19 -
Funds gbtained:
The SIDA/TPTC Specific Agreement in cooperation amounted to
MSEK 45 for training and comprised item(a) 41MSEK for Import
support and item(b) 4 MSEK for consultancy. The portion of
SIDA Import Support Funds to TPTC was annually agreed upon
between the Treasury and SIDA. thus the amount could
increase/decrease over the (four years) period of paramount
impor.tance was of course TPTC's request to Treasury for such
funds. The Import Support Funds was used by TPTC a follows:-
a)   Rehabilitation of part of Dar es Salaam Network and
commissioning of Operation and Maintenance Centre (OMCI.
b)   Rehabilitation of Singida. Dodoma and Zanzibar networks.
c)   Updating of tne TPTC Development Programme - i.e. Master
Plan for Telecommunications Development -Tanzania and TRP
- TelecommuAications Recovery Programme.
d)   Importation of  various  telecommunication  spares  and
upgrading the Staff College.
4.4 JAPAN:
Japan has provided USS 10,0 million for the following:-
i)   Rehabilitation of the Dar es Salaam cable network in
Oysterbay, Upanga, Government offices and President's
office areas. (Phase 1)
ii)  Provision and installation of:-
a)   Container type (3000L) digital telephone exchange
with standby engine at Oysterbay and a junction
cable between Oysterbay and Dar es Salaam Central.
b)   Container type digital telephone exchanges with
standby engine (7000L) at Pugu Road, (3000L) at
Wageni, (1000L) at Tabata.
4.5  BDI&IDh
Belgium has prov.ided (USS 6.4 million +,for the following:-
i)   Provision and installation of 2000 trunks Intetnational
Telephone Exchange (ITE)
ii)  Provision and installation of 1000 line digital exchange
and 34 Mbit radio link to Kigambon'i.



- 20 -
4.6 6    M:
CANADA through CIDA has provided Canadian $9.7 million for
providing the following:-
Automatic Number Identification (ANI) equipment (exchanges to
allow for International Subscriber Dialling (ISD).
a)   Dar-es-Salaam        -    2000L
b)   Pugu Road            -     5001        --
c)  Wageni                -     SOOL
d)   Kurasini             -    2000L
e)   Songea               -    IOOOL
f)   Iringa               -    IOOOL
a)   Dodoma               -    IOOOL
h)   Tabora               -    IOOOL
i)   Mwanza               -    IOOOL
J)   Musoma               -    IOOOL
K)  -Lindi i              -    IOOOL
1)   Kijitonyama          -    1000L
m)   Ubungo               -    IOOOL
n)   Msasani              -    1000L
a)   Arusha               -    1000L
4.7 FRANCE:
France has provided a soft loan of 12,450,000 FF for the
supply and installation of a 2000 Trunks Dodoma digital telex
exchange. Training to TPTC staff has been provided and
commissioning of the system is in due course.
4.8  ITU:
Through ITU assistance programme, TPTC has received 29 telefax
machines, and 42 PBXs.
4.9  TPTC/BANK OF TANZANIA:
JYen  149,906,000 was made  available  for  provision of  a
140/Mbit radio link between Dar es salaam ( Central-  Pugu
Road - Wageni).
4.10 IDA - CREDIT:
The second IDA Credit amounting to US 23,000,000 equivalent to
SDR 17,900,000 was obtained in August, 1987.
Two agreement associated with the credit. namely Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) and Project Agreement (PA) were signed
on 16th June, 1987 and became effective on 17th August.
1987.The credit was reallocated and used as follows:-



- 21 -
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STATUS OF CIEDIT ALLOCATION AS AT 31/12/1990
COST IN U.S.*
DETAILED CATEGORY   ORIOINAL                   AMOUNT UTILISED
S5NO.    DESCRIPTION      ALLQ=ION RE-ALLOCATION AS AT31/12/1992
1.   Cables and
Accessories          4000000       2f897P00          3851311.06
a) Wooden poles                                       803539.00
b) Drop-wire                                          375534.71
c) Open wire and joining sleeves                      319497.14
d) Cables & Accessories                               948952.15
e) Tools and-other
cable accessories 4000000       2897000           1413288.Q
3,8S I? 11. 06
2.   Tanga and moshi Digital
Exchanges. Additional
exchange Trunks,
Local Call Timing      5p0001000    500;000          3724598.97
and ANII 
3.   Teleprinter New terminals
and  spares.           15000        81p00O            763028.31
4.   Telephones and coins Boxes:
=*   -ordinary Telephone
sets                   960.000     600,000           573783.41
-secretarial Telephone
sets                   7S4000      500900            417124.98
-Coins Boxes            1S9000      17;000            16475l.89
S.   soL3cbboards             s50QOOo    340O000           1,477165.21
6.   R'MOSflitation of
MSNarw and Singida
Crossbar Exchanges       3SF00    309000.            104 288.69
(New Rich)
7.   Nicroware and UHF        ,009000     10000
Equipment



- 22 -
COST IN U.S55
DETAILED CATEGORY   ORIGINAL                  AMOUNT UTILISED
ALM.   DRSCRIPTgm       AkCION      RE-ALLOCAION AS ATSI12121992
8.   Rural line carrier
Equipment                500000       5,000
9.   Multiplex,VHF and
HF including Radio
Call Equp.              1000000    1,800/000          469496.70
10.  Rehabilitation of
international            300000      270p00           271,586.50
Telex Exchange              -
11.  Spares for Telecomm
Equipment               2500000      390ooo         4,216,482.45
a)Teleprinters                                         94750.84
b)Switchboards                                       1476815.02
c)Switching Equipment
633290.99
d)AirconditioninS Equipment                           371732.61
e)Power Plant                                         818156.40
f)Automanual Boards
S)Multiplexa and Radio                                 90885.Q1
h)Earth stations                                      158051.81
i)Computer Terminals                                   41815.00
j)External line plant
klOther equipment       2500000      24900P)00        S3983.00
12.  Motor vehicle and        900000       800000         84 P01.90
motor ajiles
13.  Computer  Terminals        -          600000         508286.69
and software.
14.  Power Equipment and
Air condition             500000       800.oo0      1,104033.57
Equipment.
15.  Consultancy services
and Training:
-Technical Assistance    1900000    2600,000        2p90.166.68
-Fellowships                 -         750000        844,644.62
16.  Refund of project
Advance                      -         580000-4,    581178.00
17.  Unallocated
(contingency)              190000      303000   .    61240.82
TOTAL                    23000000   23000000   ,  23944270.45
====e=========s======z2===s====z=2=z$=S-s====- =S=



- 23 -
S . 0   ,PIJ:.I T o 
5.1  Performance  f   nsultantJ:
Three Consultancy missions have been undertaken in Tanzania
following 2nd Telecommunication. Project IDA Credit 1810 - TA.
namely:
-    Project Preparation Facility (PPp)
- - Implementation of the plan for corrective action of
Institutional   Development   of  Tanzania   Posts   and
Telecommunications   Corporation   this   included   the
following scope of services:-
-    Strategic planning
-    Planning, Monitoring and Control of Outside Plant
Works in the regions
-    Operational and maintenance practice
-    Financial Management planning
-    Data processing capabilities
-    Telecommunication tariff review
- Telecommunications fixed assets revaluation.
The consultacy work was perfomed by M/S M.G. Associates of
U.K.
The overall performance was La4w.Aa  .4-      io 'er
5.2  Suonliers Performance:
Generally the performance of most of the suppliers has been
fair and reasonable. There has been no serious defaults to
the extent of the determination of the contract.
S.3 PERFORMANCE OQ MAIN PROJECT COMSPNENTS
4)   Tanaa and poihi Erch anes
The NEAX 61 Digital Telephone exchanges of 6000 lines
each  have  been  performing well *and  the  contractor
cooperated to solve a few problems which have arisen.
ii4*11twara and Sinaida Exchantes:
The FETEX 150 Digital Telephone exchanges of 1000 lines
i*ch have been installed and cut-over of the exchanges is
expected shortly.



- 24 -
Most of the teleprinters purchased under the 2nd IDA
Credit were OKITEX 500 manufactured by OKI of Japan and
supplied  by Mitsubishi  Corporation  of  Japan.    The
machines are performing well.                          1
iv) Te le0."Os 
The telephones purchased under IDA - 2 were automatic and
magneto.   Also secretarial sets.   The telephones are c
performing well.
v)  FtDhongs:
The payphones  purchased were supplied by M/S ON of
Denmark.  These are still performing well.
vi)  Veshicles.
The Suzuki vehicles are generally performing well.
Spares are readly available for replacement the parts
which go faulty.
The I8uzu Trooper and Mitsubish maintenance vans are
generally performing well and spares are also readly
available.
The Lancer staff cars have deteriorated very fast. There
is an indication that these vehicles are incapable of
sustaining the rough conditions of the roads   in the
country. Spares are also difficult to get.
vii) Comptuer:
The computer software packages purchased and installed
are functionins well.
5.4  TBAZNIN.:
A total of 25 courses were sponsored ditectly by IDA under the
Second Telecommun% tions Project2S staff attended these
courses at a totaMbf USS489,917.
A part from the courses which wereodirectly sponsored by IDA,
a total of  .4 AL...... courses were sponsored under  the
contracts   with   equipment   manufacturers/suppliers   jid
consultancy services.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



-25-
S people attended a course in NEAX 61 exchange by NEC /
MitsubishilO people attended a course in OKITEX500 teleprinter
by mttsubish, 8 people attended a course in FETEX 500
exchanges by marubeni corporation in all,a total of 48 members
of TPTC staff were trained under the second IDA - credit.
5.5  OPERATING PERFORMANCE
5.5. 1    TELEPHONE GRJnwF:       -
i)  - Lines:      -
Year               Capacity             Connected lines
1987                  77347                  58919
1988                  81214                  66058
1989                  82298                  73011
1990                 104658                  73369
1991                 109054                  81307
1992
(Also  see  annex  ........... for  additional  data  on
operational performance
ii) Existing Facilities:
Telephones:              End 198?               End 1992
CaPAcity of
Telephone Exchanges       77,347                109054
Automatic lines           60,900                 67509
Manual lines              16,447                 13798
No.of Telephone
Exchange
Automatic                     31                   34
Manual                        136                 163
Number of subscriber
connections (DEL)              58,919                 81307
Number of telephones
(total)                       122,600                150678 -'
Number of waitig list           74,460-4.            134336
Number of Radio-Call
Service subscriber                 258   P
Number of Radio Call
Control Centres                      3  ;                  3



-26 -
Telegram and telex
Number of telegram offices        100
Number of telex offices             3
Number of telex connections      1425
1816
Number of telex waiters          2089
3926
Financial:
Average Revenue per subscriber:
-    Telephone                      24500
-    Telex                         224000
Rate of return on revalued sets       21%
Operating Ratio (%)                   32%
Debt service .coverage(tiiiis)-        12-
Accounts receivable days              4S
6.0       PROJECT  ACEIEVENENTS
6.1       Project Preparation Facility - PPF:
MG Associates Ltd was a consultant under PPF. The
consultancy diagnosed weaknesses in TPTC's fuctions and
proposed remedial measures. This technical assistance was
well perfomed. and is the basis of the out going
restructuring activities.
6.2       Consultant servicesand Training:
6.2.1     Consultant Services:
MO Associates was contracted to provided assistance for
engineering and  finance  activities,  namely  projects
planning,  monitoring  and  control,  operations- and
maintenance for finance management and planning,materials
management   and   data   processing   capabilities.Tbe
assignment also covered transfer of management knowledge
to TPTC. This assistance was Snot well performed to
TPTC's satisfaction.
6.2.2     Fellowships:
Overseas training programme was well implemented as 25
TPTC staff benefitted from the fellowship programme.



-27 -
6.3       PKOCCRBNEVT
6. 3~~~~~~~~
A number of tenders were floated, evaluated and awarded.
All equipment ordered had been delivered and installed.
Procurement detail for each category are contained in
Appendix 2.
6.4       TELECOMMS UNICATIONS OPERATIONS:
6.4.1     -    Performance indicators
-    Time to answer (secs)
The world Bank target for automanual boards and manual
boards  of spares to seconds has been achieved,due to
fitting of spares to operator positions.
-    Call Completion Rate:.....
Call Completion Rate (X) for long distance:.....
6.4.2     Operator to Operator Direct Circuits:
All regions with exception of lindi have been provided
with direct rinS down circuits to Dar es salaam and other
destinations with high traffic streams.
Direct Dialing circuits between the regions and Dar es
salaam have also been provided to ease the problem of
congestion.
6.4.3     Monltoring of operators:
Fenograph machine have been bought and fitted to major
telephone group centres to monitor operator performance
(malpractice) These are Mwanza, Arusha, Dar es salaam,
Tanga, Dodoma, Mbeya, Zanzibar and Tabora.



1992 PSRFORNANCI  TARGETS REALISATION
X N<l. '   EST TARGETS         JAN. 1992 TARGET   ACTUAL    X WORK  I TARGET    I E M A R K S
1992   END OF DEC  PERF.  J<EALISAT.
jtMA  PANT CAPCITY                                          -      
;1      L I  .-J_ Paiu CA
i I .1   i)ar es Salaam                 5801ti  68320        65288   12.5         96
1. ;;    i:'thers                     88010   9406Q        91927    4.5         98
j I .3    'Ivota.l                     146026  162370       157215    7.7         97
^ ..~. ._  .  . _ _  , _  . _ _. _         ....... S:CARC(E AVA I LABI -
I :: . |    ew.                                                        .                11 ITY OF
l                                                                 Hh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTEltI ALS
,; .      xchange Capacity
|  ' 1   i)ar es Salaami   *  37190   47800        42430   14.1         89
.; . I . 8   ')t.lers                  67468   80600        72340    7.2         90
-1 . Ei'fotal                         1104668   28400      114770    9.          689
* 3    C.rnnelted DRIss
(Year l(nd)
|2.:~J ..i  r es Salaam                 32486   36930        34036    4. tl       92
II;.. .2,  others                       43883   50070        47270    7.7         94
(: :2 .3  'ITotal             .         76369   87000        81306    6.b        94
I.            -. .--, _.________                         _..  -~
l .3    lxExchange Fill (X)                                                             L,ACK O'F EXCII.
i        IrXVANa.7;IIN DUE TO
:.:I. Is . t    ar es; S;alaam            87       77           80    8. .:      96    (NAVA1ILABILITY
j    ; 3. UL : ther.                       65       62           65    0.5       W5    OF MATERIALS
l; 33.3   Tot.al                           73       68           71    2.9       96
i .. .. . . ~~~~~__ _ __ __ _ __ __ ___  .. ..      ........_ a ....   ............... .__...   .. ___ _._



199* PERFOR9AKCS TARGETS RIALISATIOt
No.         SET TARGETS       JAN. 1992 TARGET   ACTUAL    X WLR9  Z. TARLET   fR E M A R K S
1992   END OF DEC  IPERF. REALISAT.
[1       .__   _ _ _  _ _ _ _   ___.__
Z . 4    Working DELs
^.4.1  Dar es Salaam               32221   26950       33676    4.5      1251
...4.2   Others                    43591   37052       47021    7.9      127    SLIGHT FALL IN
2 . 4 . i  Total                   75812   64002       90697    6.4      126   PERFORMIANCE BLUT
---1 . .. ._.STILL VERY 11UCH
_.:. 5 ' Lines Working                                                          ABOVE TARGET
,.Z).i  Dar es Salaam               99.2      73        98.9             136
2 .5.. .  Uthers                    99.3      74       99.5              134                        '0
Total                       99.3      74       99.               135
2.6    Average Number of
Fau1ts/DEL/ ear
..6                                  2.7    2.5         2.7    2.6        91.5
2. .    Dares es' ailaam             3      2           3.9  29.9         51.8
MANY VEHICLES
2.7    Z of Faults Cleared                                                     OFF THE ROAD DUE
(National)                                                              TO OLD AOE
RESULTING IN
.7i .;   Within 24 hours            41     60         33                  55   LESS FAULTS
., _ Wl  Within 48 hours            54     70          52                 74   CLEARED
Within 30 Days              86     85         89                 104



1992 PERFORMANCE TARGETS REALISATION
I' No.   bET TARGETS        JAN. 1992 TARGET   ACTUAL    X WORK  % TARGET    B E M A R K S
1992   END OF DEC  PERF.  REALISAT.
j ".bt No. of STD Circuits                         
*4.          o  S Cir(Nauonal)             1347    6430          1542   14.5         24
.                                               _._ .__.._..___..
. 9   1 n lernational Kxobange
Capacily                         2000    2000          2000       0        100
V: V tial Tosne X within.
8IJ ;Second:s
|ii .Tn  %  uiNainal              74         80           74        ( )  92.            T
1 U. . IJav es Salaam                   75         85          80.     6.7        94.1
i                                                                    l)l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IJE To BSAD
1- --- . _ ._ .. --NETWORK
I  .opletion Rate
Intltrnational Outg6ing          59        65           64    8.5          !8. 5
:. 11 .:;;I nternational Incoming          21         25           21      0         84
I * 11- 31 H4atiunal (ST1)                 25         40           25      I5
1-:.11.4  Jlational (Maanual)              68         75           77   13.2       1I2.7
I :i. 1I . 1 4) National (Local)           71         75           71     U)          94.7
1;-.J.6  i.ocal - DSM                      60         65           61     1.7        93.8
I  .!. . ..   _ . _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _



1992 PERFORMANCE TARGETS REALISATION
;  ..ET TARGET'    JAN. 1992 TARGET   ACTUAL    % WORK  % TARGET    R E N A R K 8
1992   END OF DEC  PERF. REALISAT.    I
.i2.  Av. Op. Answer Time
i  within 10 Second$
!; :.12 . 1  1t-rnational             B0       85         87    8.8       1U2.4
:; . 1}.2  Iniand                  , 54        55         56    3.7       101.8
i * '   Js:.l)4Ing.@Aau      2350    4350       4350   85.1       100
3. 3 .1  :;ubscriber Lines           1809    3760       1816    0.4        48.3  DUE TO HIGHER
I ::i.2Z2  kxd ange Fill      X        77      86         42  -45.8        48.3  TARIFF MANY
TLXs CEASED
THOUGH A FEW
MORE CONNECTED



1992 PERFORMANCE TARGETS REALISATION
1h.          SEI' TARGETS         JAN. i992 TARGET   ACTUAL    X Wlkh V ; TARlGET    h E M A R K S
1992   END OF DEC  OR1F.  1RIEALl:AT.
_..4   ;Working DELs
. :;*    Il)ar es salaam               32221   26950         33676    *I.!.       1:;!b
| * '4 -;- ; (0liers                     43591   37052         47021    '/. j       1!7      3L1UGHl' FALL IN
;; 4.:. j TT l.a1 15~~~~~5812   64002D   80697    6.{ X   1;X6    VEFlDF';){ANC8 BUT
I... -            Working            -- -___ _ _._             .           _        -~. _-' 'TILL VERY MUCH
to  "      X Lsines Working                             .                                  ............. AB3UVE TARGET
1r,.t es Salaatm                  9.        73        98.u  -1).;""       13.4
:8.:.   U | t t.-hrs                    99.3       74        99.5   0.14        I14
Tv t.a1                         (J9.3       74        99.3  - .';         135
Averaae Number of
jau I tas/DsI./Year
*i   Ne t iona I                       .. j                2.7      - fj        Y 1.
;. . *- .K. .  es Salaam                   3       2           3.9   29.             5 1 . #
MANY VEHIICLES
.:'   If Faults Cleared                                                            (lJii; TIIE  OAD DUE
(Ns l.ioni)    .                                                                  TO OLLD AGE
RE.;U[LTI Nl IN
WI 0.1in 24 hours               41      60           33    -19. '.         Sb          FAULTS
WI t.,hj1n 48 hours             54      70           52    - 4. 1          74   CLEAHRED)
!  ; ;  Witin 30 Days                     86       85          89                   104
i_.,i t___ . _  ..  .   _ ._ _ __ _ _   _ __ _   - .    ._ _ _  .  ....  ....



-33 -
6.5  performance of radio and transmission Systems:
6.5.1     The performance indicators in the Radio and Transmission
plants is based on the systems availability and quality.
The system availability is calculated from the total
number of time the system has been downaguinst the total
available time.   The system quality is determined by
telling measurements of the noise  performance.   The
following transmission system exist:
i)   HF Systems
ii) VHF single channel systems
iii) UHF Systems
iv) Microwave systems
v)   Earth Satellite Stations
vi) Overhead openwire line systems
6.5.2     S
HP system was ordered and installed-   The system has
three control stations in Dat es Salaam, Arusha and
?wanza. The Dar es Salaam control station is functioning
well, while the Mwanza and Arusha control stations have
a problem of which is being sorted out with the
contractor, M/S Codan of Australia.
6.5.3     Single Channel VHF Systems:
The systems are performing satisfactorily after receiving
spares from M/S Motorola, Israel.
6.5.4     UHF Systems:
The UHF Radio systems have been operating with a good
system  reliability  and  quality.    There  has  been
occasional degredation of system availability caused by
power failures and equipment failures caused by lightning
strikes especially in Lake and Southern Highlands Zones.
6.S.S     Microwave Systems:
These systems have been operating with a good system
reliability and qualitv.
6.S.6     E^sHieEae_f 
The two stations. Std k-and Std B have been operating
with a good system reliability and quality despite power
shades Dar es Salaam $6using the standby engines to
operate fully.



-34 -
6.5.7     Overhead open wire line systems:
-The  open  wire  line  systems  have  been  operating
satisfactorily. Major overhauls have made to most of the
trunk routes.
6.5.8     Exchange:
-    International Exchange
The   2000   trunk   digital   telephone   exchange
commissioned in 1991 has been operating well. The
exchange   has   enabled   subscriber   to   have
international access after the introduction of GX-
5000 exchange and NEAX 61 exchanges.
6.5.9     Other Exchanges:
Most of the automatic digital, crossbar and step by step
exchanges  have  been  operating  satisfactorily  after
rehabilitation. Also, manual exchanges are operating
satisfactorily after rehabilitation. Using IDA funds,
Mtwara, Singida, Tanga, and Moshi exchanges have been
installed. Zanzibar exchanre has been extended by 1000
lines.
6.5.10    External line plant:
The external line plant has been rehabilitated and new
pairs ( ........ ....      . ) have been provided.
.6.5.11    Power plant:
.86 diesel engine generators for various stations have
been rehabilitated. Also rectifiers for-various stations
plant  at  Mbeya,  Zanzibar  and  Mwanza  have  been
rehabilitated.        .
New generator sets have been installed at Morogoro,
Tabora, Nkoani, Wete, Tanga, Moshi, Kigoma, Kijitonyama,
Bukoba and Dar es salaam G.OP, Solar power Generators
have been installed at 10 stations.
6.5.12    Subscrib  terdinals:
i)   Telephane and secretarial Sets:
26847 telephone connections have beenmade for the
period,;987 - 92. 1408 secretarial sets have been
provide. 90 payphones were installed and are
functibning.



- 35 -
ii) Telex:
S8S telex installations have been achieved for the
-.   period 1987/92.
6.5.13    Spares for telecommunication equipment,
cables and cable accessories
Some of the cables and accessories were used for
rehabilitation    and    expansion    of    the    local
telecommunication network and installation of new
exchange.
Due to availability of materials and spares purchased
under 2nd IDA and other Donor funds there has been
significant improvement in the performance of the
telecommunications network. From 1987 - 1992, telephone
exchange connections have grown at an average-of about
4475 per year.Total working lines (DELS)bav6 ntureased
from 59013 in 1987 to 81,307 in 1992. Telex connections
have also increased from 1425 in 1987 to...............
in 1992. Other performance indicators have shown progress
durins the project period.
7.0       OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS:
Other benefits from the second Telecommunications project
are the additional revenue to TPTC and the non -
quantified economic benefits to the country as a whole.
Such benefits are reduction in fuel costs, improvement in
efficiency in transport etc. The economic benefits by fat
exceeds the direct benefits to users and TPTC.



- 36 -
farJlj
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title   Purpose             Year         Status
Approved
1. Loan 483-EAj/    To help finance     1967         Completed in Early 1974
local and long
distance facilities
2. Loan 675-EA1/    To fiuther extend    1970        Completed in June 1975
telecommunications
services
3. Loan 914-EA1/    To further extend    1973        Tanzanian portion completed in
telecommunications              in 19812/
serces
4. Credit 1173-TA   Extension of Services 1981       Completed in June 1987
and institutional
development
[1    Prior to 1977 the tel     ons services in East Africa Commmity (Tanzania,
Keya and Uganda) were managed by the East Africa Pots and Telcommuncations
Corporation (EAPTC). These Loans were extended to EAPTC.
2/Due to problems in the East African Communhy leading to its breakup the works to be
undertaken on te Third Projec were generally delayed.



- 37 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                  Date plamed          Date Revised         Actual Date
Preparation           November 1986        November 1986        December 1986
Appraisal             March 1987           March 1987           March 1987
Negotiations          May 1987             May 1987             April 1987
Board Approval        June 1987            June 1987            June 1987
Credit Effectiveness   October 1987        October 1987         August 1987
Project Completion    June 1991            June 1992            December 1992



- 38 -
3. Credit Disbursenents
Accumulated Disbursements (in USS millions)
IDA FY and                 Actual             Appraisal     Actual as a %
Six month period             US$              Estimates3/     of Appraisal
Estimates
1988
July - Dec 1987                 2.37               0.2                  100
Jan-Jun 1988                    2.95               0.7                  100
1989
July - Dec 1988                 5.56               2.1                  100
Jan -Jun 1989                   9.18               3.5                  100
1990
July - Dec 1989                13.20               5.3                  100
Jan-Jun 1990                   15.00               7.4                  100
1991
July - Dec 1990                19.25               9.4                  100
Jan-Jun 1991                   20.11              11.5                  100
1922
July- Dec 1991                 20.81              14.0                  100
Jan - Jun 1992                 22.08              15.5                  100
1993
July - Dec 1992                22.66              17.0                  100
Jan - Jun 1993                 23.00              18.5                  100
1994
July - Dec 1993                23.00              20.0                  100
Jan - Jun 1994                 23.00              22.0                  100
1995
July - Dec 1994                23.00              22.5                  100
Jan - Jun 1995                 23.00              23.0                  100
3/Even though the Appraisal estimates were not officially revised it was expected that the
project would be completed by June 1991 by which time the credit would be completely
disbursed. In this respect, conrary to what is shown in the above table, disbrh ave
been consistently delayed from the third year of the project (1989).



- 39 -
4. Pro2ect Impleunentation
Completion Dates
CATEGORY DESCRIPTION                            Completion Dates
Appraisal           Actual
1. Cables & Accessories           June 1990           December 1992
2. Tanga and Moshi Digital        June 1990           August 1991
exchanges. Additional
exchange trunks, local
call timing and ANI
3. Teleprinter New Terminals      March 1990           December 1992
and Spares
4. Telephones and Coins Boxes:    June 1990           June 1992
5. Switchboards                   June 1990           July 1991
6. Rehabilitation of Mtwara       June 1990           July 1990
& Singida Crossbar Exchanges
(New Exchange)
7. Microwave and UHF Equipment  June 1990             June 1990
8. International Telex            December 1989       July 1991
13. Computer Terninals and        June 1989           Incomplete
Software
14. Power Equipment and Air       March 1990          Incomplete
Conditioning Equipment
iS. Consultancy Services
& Training:
- Technical Assistance          December 1990       December 1990
- Fellowships                   December 1990       December 1992



- 40 -
5. frlset Cost (USSmillion)
IDA Financed Components
ITEMS                                    Appraisal Estimate     PCR Estimates
I. Cables & Accessories                         4.000.000          2.897,000
2. Tanga and Moshi Digital                       5.000.000          5.000,000
exchanges. Additional
exchage tnmks. ocal
call timing and ANI
3. Teleprinter New Terminals                     1.500.000           815,000
and Spares
4. Telephones and Coins Boxes:
- Ordinary Telephone Sets                      960,000             600,000
- Secetrial Telephone Sets                     750.000             500.000
- Coin Boxes                                    150,000            170.000
5. Switchboards                                  1.500.000          1,400.000
6. Rehabilitadon of Mtwara                        350.000            300.000
& Singida Crossbar Exchanges
(New Exchange)
7. Microwave and UHF Equipment                   1,000.000             10.000
8. Rural Line Carrier Equipment                   500.000              5.000
9. Multiplex. VHF and HF                         1.000.000          1.903.000
including Radio Call
Equipment
10. Rehabilitation of                             300,000            370,000
International Telex
Exchange
11. Spares for Telecoms                         2.500,000          2,900,000
Equipmt including
telephones. switchboards.
swiching equipment,
air-conditioning, power
plant automanuat boards.
workshops. vehicles,
computer terminals.
12. Motor Vehicles                                900.000            900.000
13. Computer Terminals and                                           600,000
Software
14. Power Equipment and Air                       500.000            800,000
Conditioning Equipment
15. Consultancy Services
& Training:
- Technical Assiste                           1,900,000          2.500,000
- Fellowships                                         -            750,00=
16. Refumn of Prject                                    -            580,000
Prepation Advance
17. Unallocated (contingency)                     190,000
TOTAL                                        23M                 23000.000



- 41 -
SA. C    A
Catetories                               Oriatnl Allocation                      Revised Allocation
1. Cables & Accessories                         4,000.000                               2.897.000
2. Tango and Moshi Digital                       5.000.000                              5,000.000
exchanges. Additional
exchange trunks, local
call timing and ANI
3. Teleprinter New Terminals                     1,500,000                                815.000
and Spares
4. Telqhotnes and Coins Boxes:
- Ordinazy Telephone Sets                       960,000                                600,000
- Secrerial Telephone Sets                      750.000                                500,000
- Coin Boxes                                    150,000                                170,000
5. Switchboards                                  1.500,000                              1,400,000
6. Rehabilitation of Mtwara                       350.000                                 30,.000
& Singida Crossbar Exchanges
(New Exchange)
7. Microwave and UHF Equipment                   1,000,000                                 10,000
8. Rural Line Carre Equipmet                      500000                                    5.000
9. Multiplex. VHF and HF                         1,000,000                               1,800,000
including Radio Call
Equipmt
10. Rehabiliaton of                               300.000                                 270,000
interatioa Telex
ExdB-
ii. Spares for Telecms                          2,500,000                               2,900.000
Equi   including
telphones, swithrs.
switching equips,
aircondktlong power
plan automanual boards.
workshop, vehicles,
computer temnals.
12. Motor Vehicles                                900.000                                 800.000
13. Computer Terminals and                                                                600,000
Software
14. Power Equipment and Air                       500.000                                 800.000
Coniioing Equipment
IS. Consultancy Sevices
& Training:
- Technical Assace                            1,900,000                               2,500,000
- Fellowships                                                                          750,000
1i. Refimd of Prjcct                                                                      580,000
Prepation Advance
17. Unallocated (contingency)                     190.000                                 303,000
TOTAL                                        2000.000                                23. 0



- 42 -
6.
1.    Cash flows for the rate of return are based on actual operating results for the
operation of TPTC for the 1987 to 1990.
2.    Incremental costs and benefit flows in constant terms are as below:
(Tsh millions)
1987         1988          1989    1990-2001
Incrmental Revenues   1,127         1,721        2,293        3,959
Incremental Costs       635         1,333         1,424        1,994
Capital Costs           623          588           718         1,716
Net Benefits          (130)         (200)          151          248
in constant terms     (130)         (129)           67           79
nernal Rate of Retum          2S%
3.    The Project has an estimated fincial rate of return of about 25% based on actala
results during 1987-90 and a revenue stream to 2001 based on 1990's results. The Rate of
Return is in line with expectations indicated during appraisal.



- 43 -
7. St  of Covenants
Development Credit
Agreement(DCAj or Project
Agreement (PA) Section    Condition                        Remarks
DCA 4.01            Submission of Tariff Policy            Complied
Agmement of Tariff Policy by June '88  Not Complied
DCA 6.02            Signing of the Subsidiary Agreement    Complied
PA 2.07             Submission of Staff Incentive Scheme by
Jan '88 and implement it by June '88   Complied with delays
PA 2.08             Plan of Action to reduce Receivables
by January '88                         Complied
PA 2.08             Submit Debtors aging list every 6 months    Not Complied
PA 3.03            Insurance for IDA financed goods        Complied
PA 4.01             Timely furnishing of Financial statements
and audited accounts                   Complied for 1989
PA 4.02             Reflect revalued assets and liabilities in
financial statements from FY 1987      Complied
PA 4.03             Provide at least 50% of the funding for investment
requirements from internal sources     Not Complied
PA 4.03             Submit before October 1, anmnal requirements
for the year and the next fiscal year and
whether the requirement would be met   Complied
PA 4.04             Rate of Return (12%)                   Complied
PA 4.04             Review adequacy of Tariffs and make
recommendations to the Govermnent      Not Complied
PA 4.05             Submit Resource Transfer Policy by June '88
and start implementation by end '88    Not Complied
PA Schedule I       Procurement and Consultants'
services nrles                         Complied
PA Schedule II      Appointment of Project Coordinator     Complied
Review Manpower plan                   Complied in part
PA Schedule I       Institutional restrucuin, establishment
of cost centers                        Complied in part
PA Schedule II      Establishment of Computerized Fixed Assets
Register                               Not fully complied



- 44 -
TANZANIA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
8. MISSIONS
STAGE OF PROJECT MONTH/ NO. OF   DAYS IN SPECIALIZATION               PERFORMANCE TYPES OF
CYCLE               YEAR    PERSONS FIELD    REPRESENTED              RATING STATUS PROBLEMS
Ibrough Appisal    1/86         1         2      Engineering
11/86      2        10      Finance+Engineering
Appraisal through
Board Approval       3187       3        10      Finance+Eng. +Postal
Board Approval
dhrough Effectiveness  -
Supervision          12/87      2          8     Finance+Engineering
4/88       1         14     Finane                      1
9/88      2          16     Finance+Engineering         1
5/89      1          7      Finance                     1
12/89      2          7     Finan+ce.Engineering        1
a 7/90      1          6     Finance                     3         No tariff inceases
and finacial resncring
*)3191      2         15     Finame
*)11l91     3          5     Finazwe+Engizwetrng
) 6/92     2         12     Financ+EngWneug
*)10192     2         10     Finamce+Enginering
NOTE: j) oint minam for do second W        ro pdoject (supevisiont) and d i UItd  ponwiect (pznc pr4ppawu amd
apais).



-45-                                                  ANNEX I
Page l of 2
TAMZAIA POSTS & TELE        ICATIOfS CW. 
.........................................            ................................................. ..
Itm Stat_mts
.................
(TM  atllt  on)
TIUI9   WmSA                          19        166      196       116       119      1990      199
..............................        ....       .....  ....       .....  ....          .....  .... .. ..... ..... ..
Tetuwo                               1.145    10348    2.42       3.536    4.99    6.09       9.,3
tebs                                   1T0       276      s0    1.019    1.9,    2,4W         4.0
To1q.ea                                  7        a        n 53      77        7                  a
,o4  .......  .......  ..... ......  .......  .......  .. .....
Gross Teeosm  _rs:qI  tevws   1,345            1,       3.034      ..6     6.,    10.7   13,43
Ot9e GM                                  S       301       101      2         w        2         la
, ...........  .......  .......... ..... ........... ..... ..........  ...... ........ ...............
Tel, i _ aprainflo m l-_                         Oas     3.134    4,M       Tm       %0 107    13,0"
........*.................
11stloes                               25        356      476       MS        6      1.434    I.m
i Nfald toniflS@                  110      801    1.32    2,.5        2.819    3,9       4.1
Others                                 148       236      301       573    1.09      1.4       1'W
Oa5?ole1ton                             39       1s5      34        2         306      373      or
,.........   ...... ......... ..... ......... ..... ......... ..... .........  ..... ........... ...
Total qeottq buwas                     63      1.6      2,453    3,1    5is    73             8,8
Ado  to Pav fair I.                                                                             (47?)
NI TELEu  01MATIG WOOi                 723       33        "5    1,155    1,97       3.,83    4,51
Net Paost  Opeative tmm  (Los           26       (34)        7       10       (37)    (5)    (416)
LaS: Interst On Loam                    14        56      309       2      3,615    1,456    1,"4
Not  t-Operatif  "its (Lou)                     (I11)    (93)  (4,25)  (249)            33
Foreign l ew  Gin    S)                (48)  (,32.)  (3,M0)  (2,450)  (5,20)  (1.924)  (1O152)
.......  ........ .......  .......  .......  ......   .......
NIt I      (LOP)                       66   (2,146)  (4,1)  (5,909)  (9.M7 )           m       I.501
staff 2iontt          a
Yu                                     251         0      405        6        50       soSo      67
0.                   .       0..       .... .   0...  .......
Nat Profit (LS")                       435   (2,16)  (4, U)  (6.272) (10.2)    (3)               1
-    -   ma-                             -mi



-46-                                  AziexI
Page 2 of 2
TANANIA POTSr  TELICGMICATIOS CORP.             TAN?
lelaw.e shsts
(Tab Will)
AM$                                195     196    1Sn?       195      19       1f90    191
....    ....    ....    ....    .          ...
Gre  11s Asset                      93n    5,30    6.056    6.40    69,0    ?.W7    11.28
Acamalsted 0eprat1un                "4   21,S59    2.9W     3.23    3.a1    4.*,    5.02X
Total 11usd Assets                  491        3     o.              3        3X,2   6.244
Wwk in Prrep                        770     602    1,040    1,202    1,4   2.2S         0
Iwnstmns                            236     567      619      m        616     93       936
Current Aseuts:
-Cah am  Ink 0 its                 192     315      362      530      549     54    2466
Accowa It c.seMlose             1,031    2.159 "   14?   2.055   3.4,    6,054   6,514
Las PM. for Doatfut Aects.                                                           (MY7)
-foreign Aministration                                     5.US5   9.40?   1.97      2.469
-*tbw ctas1le1                             154      174      714     446      101    1.3a
*Ihoefte"                          191     227    4u         51?      916   1.094    1.343
5 ~~~~~~.. .* ... .......  ... .... ..... .-.....***** ... ... *. ... ..... ....... .
Total Current Asset             1,.414   2,554,  S,22    9.661  14.79    9.?"   14.10
MAL AUlT                          2,911   7,314  1O.SS2  14.3    20,361   16,756   21,352
mn    mu          _a       mm        - _ a              m



