Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1810-TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
Dated June 16, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1810-TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June  16,  1987, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventeen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,900,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that TPTC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and TPTC, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to TPTC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS TPTC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TPTC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Association and TPTC shall otherwise agree, TPTC shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. TPTC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
Section 2.04. TPTC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TPTC shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) TPTC shall,  at the request of the Association, exchange  
views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the progress of the Project, the  
performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
TPTC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TPTC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Until completion of the Project, TPTC shall consult with the 
Association prior to undertaking, in any financial year, an aggregate amount of 
capital investments, not included in its investment program, in excess of $2 million.
Section 2.07. TPTC shall: (a) by no later than January 1, 1988, furnish to the 
Borrower and the Association, for their review and approval, an incentive scheme for 
its staff; and (b) by no later than June 30, 1988, implement such scheme.
Section 2.08. TPTC shall: (a) by no later than December 31, 1987, furnish to the 
Association a plan of action to reduce its outstanding subscriber receivables to no 
more than two months of revenues by the end of 1990; and (b) commencing December 31, 
1987, furnish to the Association every six months an aging list of accounts 
receivable.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Management and Operations of TPTC
Section 3.01. TPTC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and telecommunications practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. TPTC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and telecommunications practices.
Section 3.03. TPTC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TPTC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect,  
in  accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
TPTC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) including the 
Project accounts and Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of FY1987, three months after 
the end of FY1988 
and FY1989, and two months after the end of FY1990 
and thereafter, draft 
financial statements; 
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than nine months after the end of FY1987, eight 
months after the end of 
FY1988, six months after the end of 
FY1989 and thereafter: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. TPTC shall, commencing with the end of FY1987, prepare its 
financial statements reflecting the revaluation of its assets and liabilities.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TPTC shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources equivalent to not 
less than 50% of the moving average of TPTC's total investment requirements, including 
incremental working capital for that year and the next following fiscal year.
(b)
Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, TPTC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by TPTC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any review shows that TPTC would not meet the requirements set forth 
Page  4
in paragraph (a) for TPTC's fiscal years covered by such review, TPTC shall promptly 
take appropriate measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure 
or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
 
(B)
the sum of expenses related to operations, including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance and taxes, and payments 
in lieu of taxes 
(excluding provision for depreciation 
and other non-cash operating 
charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions 
of surplus, increase in working capital other than cash, 
and 
other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
 
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash 
which could, in the ordinary course of business, be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could, under circumstances then existing, 
be called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
services requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
 
(viii) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TPTC shall 
earn, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending December 31, 1987, an 
annual return of not less than 12% of the average current net value of TPTC's fixed 
assets in operation.
Page  5
(b)
(i)
Before October 1, in each of its fiscal years, TPTC shall, on the 
basis of 
forecasts prepared by TPTC and satisfactory to the 
Association, review whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following 
fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association 
the results of such 
review upon its completion; and
(ii)
TPTC shall review the adequacy of its tariffs and make 
recommendations to the 
Borrower based on such review.
 
(c)
If any such review shows that TPTC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for TPTC's fiscal years covered by such review, TPTC shall 
promptly take appropriate measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing TPTC's net 
operating income, 
for the fiscal year in question, by one-half of the 
sum of the current net 
value of TPTC's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
that fiscal year.
 
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total 
operating expenses.
 
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
basis acceptable to the 
Association, or other basis, but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of TPTC's fixed assets in 
operation shall be 
calculated as one-half of the sum of the gross value 
of TPTC's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to 
the Association.
(vi)
The term "current net value of TPTC's fixed assets in operation" 
means the 
gross value of TPTC's fixed assets in operation, less 
the amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Association.
 
Section 4.05. TPTC shall: (i) by no later than June 30, 1988, furnish to the 
Borrower and the Association, for their review and approval, a resource transfer 
policy; and (ii) by December 31, 1988, commence implementation of such policy.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
TPTC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
Page  6
(b)
If the Development  Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its  
terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify TPTC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For TPTC:
Tanzania Posts and
  Telecommunications Corporation
P.O. Box 9070
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
 
TANPOSTEL
41054
Dar es Salaam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of TPTC, or by 
TPTC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as the Director 
General shall designate in writing, and TPTC shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
TANZANIA POSTS AND
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
By /s/ Asterius Hyera
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Spare parts and components for rehabilitation of existing equipment may be 
procured directly by negotiation with the original manufacturer of such equipment, 
provided, however, that the aggregate cost of spare parts and components so procured 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,300,000.
2.
Measuring equipment and tools may be procured under contracts awarded through 
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids invited from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
subparagraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the 
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be  furnished  to  the 
Association pursuant to paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of 
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  8
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist TPTC in improving its organizational structure and management 
system, TPTC shall, by not later than December 31, 1987,  employ consultants whose  
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
(i)
TPTC shall appoint a Project Coordinator under
terms of reference and with experience and qualifications acceptable to 
the Borrower 
and the Association.
 
(ii)
The Project Coordinator shall coordinate, monitor and report on the 
implementation of 
the Project.
 
2.
TPTC shall, by October 1 of each year, review and agree with the Borrower and 
the Association on:
(i)
its performance targets for the following fiscal year and furnish a 
detailed action 
plan to achieve such targets;
 
(ii)
its updated annual expenditure program, setting forth details of: (a) 
network and 
components, switching, local networks, transmission, 
buildings and support activities 
for the following fiscal year; (b) revised 
institutional arrangements, if any,  for  
implementation; (c) updated  cost 
estimates; and (d) provision of agreed funding by 
the Borrower and TPTC;
 
(iii)
the foreign  exchange  gap,  in financing its operating costs, and 
identify sources 
of funds to meet such gap; and
 
(iv)
the  implementation  of  technical  assistance, training of counterpart 
staff, and 
implementation objectives for the following year.
 
3.
TPTC shall, no later than December 31, 1987, in consultation with the Borrower, 
prepare an action plan and commence implemention of the following measures to increase 
its efficiency through:
(i) restructuring its organizational structure and management procedures;  (ii)  
establishing  profit  centers;  and (iii) contracting out those activities which can 
be handled more efficiently by other agencies.
4.
(i) TPTC, shall by December 31, 1988, review its manpower plan with the Borrower 
and the Association, and prepare a computerized data base, incorporating its 
requirements, targets and recruitment strategy; (ii) TPTC shall, by December 31, 1987, 
after consultation  with  the  Association,  select training disciplines and locations 
for overseas fellowships.
5.
The consultants employed under Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall 
assist TPTC to design and implement management systems necessary to assure: (a) 
efficient implementation of
its investment program; and (b) operation and maintenance of existing and future 
networks.
6.
TPTC shall: (i) by December 31, 1987, establish a computerized fixed assets 
register and a methodology for regular asset revaluation, satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) by December 31, 1988, separate telecommunications and postal 
accounts.
Page  9
