Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1810-TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 16, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1810-TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1987, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications  
Corporation  (TPTC)  with  the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to TPTC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Bank (AfDB) 
a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount approximately equivalent to five million dollars 
($5,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project;
(D)
the Borrower has requested from the Republic of Italy (hereinafter called 
Page  2
Italy) a loan in an amount approximately equivalent to ten million dollars 
($10,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project;
(E)
the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called 
Sweden) a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to eleven million dollars 
($11,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and TPTC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and TPTC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and TPTC pursuant to Section 3.O1 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
"Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
October 15, 1986, and November 7, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association;
(e)
"TPTC" means the Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, a 
Government-owned corporation created by the Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications 
Corporation Act, 1977; and
(f)
"T Sh" means Tanzanian shilling, the Borrower's currency.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,900,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
Page  3
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance, withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date, and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.O7. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing November 
15, 1997, and ending May 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.09. TPTC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.O2 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause TPTC to perform, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement, all the obligations of TPTC therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TPTC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to TPTC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TPTC under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall provide, 
Page  4
inter alia, that: (i) the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate 
of 7.92 percent (7.92%) per annum for a term of twenty years including a grace period 
not exceeding four years; and (ii) TPTC shall bear the risk resulting from 
fluctuations in the value of the currencies relent to it.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by TPTC 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a tariff policy 
for TPTC; and (ii) introduce such policy as shall have been mutually agreed by not 
later than January 31, 1988.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.O1. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
TPTC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that TPTC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act, 1977, shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of TPTC to perform any of  its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TPTC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or 
grant, made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project, shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
Page  5
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 5.O2. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and 
(c)
the events specified in subparagraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (e) (ii) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The following  event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
2.O1 (b) of the General Conditions namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and TPTC. 
Section 6.O2. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.O2 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by TPTC 
and is legally binding upon TPTC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and TPTC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and TPTC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.O3. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.O1. Except as provided in Section 2.O9 of this Agreement, the minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section ll.O3 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs
  and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  6
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Asterius Hyera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Telecommunications         11,670,000       100% of foreign
     equipment, materials                        expenditures
     and spare parts eli-
     gible under TPTC's
     annual expenditure
     program
(2)  Vehicles and                2,490,000       100% of foreign
     other equipment                             expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                1,710,000       100% of foreign
     services and                                expenditures
     training
Page  7
(4)  Refunding of                  470,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                 1,560,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 17,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
"telecommunications equipment, materials and spare parts eligible under 
TPTC's annual expenditure program" means the telecommunications equipment, materials 
and spare parts identified for funding by the  Association under TPTC's agreed annual 
expenditure program.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) rehabilitate key parts of the 
Borrower's telecommunications network; and (ii) strengthen TPTC's management, 
organization, financial and engineering systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation
 
1.
Rehabilitation of local cable networks and subscriber equipment through the 
provision of equipment.
2.
Replacement of worn-out or obsolete switching and transmission equipment, 
including marginal expansion where justified.
3.
Installation of new transit exchanges for local and international traffic and a 
satellite earth station for international services.
4.
Upgrading of maintenance facilities through the provision of tools and test 
equipment, spare parts and specialized vehicles, upgrading stores and repair 
facilities in workshops.
5.
Upgrading of computer facilities for the introduction of management information 
systems and automation of local cable and subscriber data.
6.
Provision of spare parts for telecommunications equipment, power and 
air-conditioning equipment and vehicles, and provision of civil works materials.
Part B:
Technical Assistance and Training
 
1.
Strengthening of TPTC's organizational structure and management systems through 
the provision of technical assistance.
2.
Improvement of TPTC's training programs through the provision of technical 
assistance and training equipment.
3.
Provision of overseas training for about 40 TPTC staff members in engineering, 
Page  8
finance, auditing, materials management, computerization and general management.
*   *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits, which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
Page  9
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
