CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 188 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Humera Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 188 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Humera Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1970, between the EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "IHA" means the Imperial Highway Authority, an agency of the
Borrower, established pursuant to the Highway Authority Proclamation
1950 (Proclamation No. 115 oi 1951) of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project Farm" means the demonstration farm described under Part
III of Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)   "Project Road" means the approximtely 120 km of road described
under Part I of Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million one hundred thousand
dollars ($3,100,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Development Credit
Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to
the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed un 1zr this Development Credit Agreement:
(i)        such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories 1 and 2 of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement; and
(ii)       the equivalent of fifty-seven per cent (57%) of such amounts
as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
as shall be required to meet payments to be made) for goods
or services included in Categories 3 - 7 of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the estimate of such
payments for goods or services included in Categories 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7, the Association
may by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such
Categories as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit then
allocated to such Categories and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the
payments remaining to be made for goods or services included in such Categories.
Section 2.04. (a) No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made
under Categories 1 and 2 of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred
to in Section 2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement on account of payments
in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, the territories of the Borrower.


﻿5
(b)   It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
that withdrawals from the Credit Account under Category 4 of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit ieferred to in Section 2.02 of this Development Credit
Agreement may be made on account of payments made prior to the date of this
Development Credit Agreement but after December 1, 1969.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15   and  August 15   commencing   August 15, 1980   and  ending
February 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
*       amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement to
expenditures on the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
construction of the water supply system for the township of Humera shall be carried
out by contractors selected in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in August 1969
and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are set
forth in paragraph I of Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement; (ii)
the construction of the bridge over the Tekkezie River, and the buildings and water
supply for the project demonstration farm shall be carried out by contractors


﻿6
selected in accordance with procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of said Schedule
3; (iii) any contract for the purchase of road construction equipment, the price
of which is expected to exceed the equivalent of US$5,000, shall be awarded in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits published by the Bank in August 1969 and in accordance with such other
procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in paragraph 1 of said Schedule
3; (iv) procurement of other goods for the Project shall be in accordance with
the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of said Schedule 3.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project
to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall make
available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. (a) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through
its Ministry of Agriculture, employ a qualified and experienced Project Co-ordinator,
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, who shall have such
authority and such responsibilities as shall be necessary for co-ordinating the
execution of the Project.
(b)   In carrying out Part I of the Project the Borrower shall cause IHA:
(i) to establish and maintain the Highway Construction Supervision Unit described
in Schedule 5 to this Development Credit Agreement staffed by qualified and
experienced personnel, who shall be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, and on terms of reference mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association; and (ii) to construct the Project Road in accordance with the
general design standards set forth in Schedule 4 to this Development Credit
Agreement, as such standards may be modified from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   In carrying out Part IV of the Project the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed consultants acceptable to, and to an extent and upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to, the Association.


﻿7
Section .4.03. The Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed a qualified
and experienced manager for the Project Farm, mutually acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations in respect of the Project of
IHA and the Highway Construction Supervision Unit described in Schedule 5 to
this Development Credit Agreement and of the ministries or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and shall
enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods, and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 4.05. Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon :heir preparation, the
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents and work schedules for the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
Section 4.06. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all records and accounts relevant to the Project to be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association and shall transmit to the
Association certified copies of such accounts and a signed copy of such auditor's
report, not later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement and
to any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concernin. the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds, the Project, and the ministries or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out and operating the Project or any part thereof. On
the part of the Borrower such information shall include information witt respect
to financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.


﻿8
(c)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit and to inspect any part of the Project.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall prepare or cause to be prepared a final
design of Part II of the Project and, promptly upon its preparation and prior to
construction, submit said final design to the Association for its approval.
(b)   Upon completion of Part II of the Project the Borrower shall establish
and maintain or cause to be established and maintained ex-fountain water charges
at such rates as to ensure an average charge per cubic meter of water pumped
of not less than US$.20 equivalent.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that the facilities constructed under Part
II of the Project shall be operated and maintained in accordance with sound
engineering practices and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing purposes.
Section 4.09. (a) The hoITower shall prepare and submit to the Association
for its approval within not more than three months from the Effective Date of
this Development Credit Agreement, a development and testing program for the
use of fertilizers, pesticides, alternative crop rotation and advanced farm machinery
at the Project Farm.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that adequate funds are available to ensure
the continuous and efficient operation of the Project Farm.
Section 4.10. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall ensure that IHA adequately
maintains and promptly makes all necessary repairs to the Project Road and to
the Tekkezie Bridge in accordance with sound engineering practices, and (ii) shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing purposes.


﻿*                                   9
(b)   The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that its
regulations published as Legal Notice No. 261 of 1962 limiting the size and weight
of vehicles using its highway system are effectively enforced on the Project Road.
Section 4.11. Prior to the implementation of any proposals for changes in
the organization of ministries or agencies of the Borrower involved in carrying
out or o %rating the Project which would affect those subdivisions of such ministries
or agencies that are directly engaged in the execution or operation of the Project,
the Borrower agrees to inform the Association of such proposals and to give the
Association a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 4.12. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.13. This Development Cr-dit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
Section 4.14. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower undertakes to insure or cause to be insured the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards
incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continun for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
paragraph (b) of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Project Co-ordinator, referred to in paragraph (a) of Section
4.02 of this Development Credit Agreement, shall have been employed;
(b)   that the manager for the Project Farm, referred to in paragraph (b)
of Section 4.02 of this Development Credit Agreement, shall have been
employed; and
(c)   that, for the purposes of the Project, aerial photographs of a quality
satisfactory to the Association shall have been obtained for an area
of approximately 8,000 sq. kilometers of the northwestern lowlands
located within the Borrower's sub-provinces (Awrajas) of Gash-Setit,
Wegera, Gondar and Chilga.
Section 6.02. The date of August 31, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.03, 4.06,
4.08 (b) and (c), 4.09 (b), 4.10 and 4.11 of this Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1973 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿11
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the date and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By          /s/ Minasse Haile
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By      /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                                      in Dollar Equivalent
1.   Road construction equipment including
spare parts and bailey bridges                      1,450,000
2.   Consultant services for preinvestment
studies                                               215,000
3.   Construction of a water supply system
for the township of Humera                             90,000
4.    Construction of the Tekkezie Bridge                   90,000
5.   Materials, fuel, oil and work shops
for Project Road construction including
erection and strengthening of bailey
bridges                                               300,000
6.   Staff of Highway Construction Supervision
Unit                                                  150,000
7.   Project Farm construction, equipment and
operating expenses                                    175,000
8.   Unallocated                                           630,000
TOTAL              3,100,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
1 - 7 shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no
longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category 8.


﻿13
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I - 7 shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such J-crease
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Categories
3 - 7, an amount equal to 57% of such i-crease) will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
8, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of a program to establish the infrastructure
and institutions required to enable the development of about 320,000 hectares
of land for mechanized agriculture in the northwest lowlands of Ethiopia. The
implementation of the Project consists of the following:
Part I.          Coi,struction of about 120 km  of all-weather road between
Tessensi and the south side of the Royan River about 17 km
south of Humera, including bridging of the Tekkezie River, and
the erection and reinforcement of bailey bridges across the
Saubumaye, Galooge and Royan Rivers;
Part II.         Construction of two tube-wells and the related pumping and
power facilities, reservoirs and a water distribution system for
the township of Humera;
Part III.        Completion of a demonstration farm about five miles southeast
of Humera which during the first phase of the program shall
consist of approximately 300 ha, including buildings, water
supply, machinery, about 10 km of service roads to provide a
link with the main road and some internal service roads, fencing
and clearing operations, and the first thirty months of operation
of the farm (including extension operations); and
Part IV.         Detailed studies for the preparation of a proposed investment
project aimed at extending the area under cultivation and
improving productivity.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1973.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with respect to all contracts
for which international competitive bidding is required pursuant to Section 3.02
of this Development Credit Agreement, the following procedures will be observed:
(a)   Individual contracts shall be of a size sufficiently large so as not to
discourage potential bidders or to impede an economical and diligent carrying out
of the Project.
(b)   Before inviting tenders the Borrower shall submit to the Association
for its approval the proposed standard bid invitation documents including
specifications and a description of tendering procedures.
(c)   Unless otherwise agreed with the Association, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association for its approval prior to awarding the contract the
summary of the bids received, an analysis report and recommendations, and a
justification of the proposal for awarding the contract.
*        2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with respect to all contracts
for which international competitive bidding is not required pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Development Credit Agreement, the following procedures will be
observed:
(a)   For any individual order amounting to the equivalent of US$4,000
or more, an invitation to tender shall be published in at least three consecutive
issues of two official daily newspapers in Ethiopia. Such invitations shall allow
a period of not less than one month for tenders to be submitted and shall announce
the date, time and place at which they will be publicly opened. All tenders received
shall be opened and purchase decisions made by the Borrower's purchasing
committee established under the Borrower's regulations governing the purchasing
procedure of certain government departments. Bid evaluation should be consistent
with the terms and conditions set forth in the invitation to bid.
(b)   For any individual order costing more than the equivalent of US$1,000
but less than the equivalent of US$4,000, invitations to tender are not required,
but at least three offers shall be obtained and evaluated by appropriate officials
of the Ministry of Agriculture or of the IHA, as the case may be.


﻿16
(c)   The award of contracts pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this
paragraph 2 shall be made to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be
the lowest evaluated bid and who meets the appropriate standards of capability
and financial responsibility. For the purpose of determining the lowest evaluated
bid, factors other than price, such as the time of completion of construction or
other work, the efficiency and reliability of the equipment, the time of its delivery
and the availability of service and spare parts, should also be taken into
consideration.
(d)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association promptly after the award
is made a summary of bids or quotations, an analysis report and recommendations,
a brief justification for making the award, and, as soon as the contract has been
signed and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account, the Borrower will send a copy thereof
to the Association together with a copy of the procds-verbal of the public opening
of the tenders.
(e)   For any individual order costing less than the equivalent of US$1,000,
the Project Co-ordinator, the Project Farm Manager or the Senior Road
Construction Supervisor (as referred to in Schedule 5 to this Development Credit
Agreement), whichever is appropriate, shall be permitted to make local purchases
of goods without reference to any other authority.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Design Speed, kph:                            100 in flat terrain or less
(40 minimum) where dictated by
cost consideration
Roadway Width, meters:                        6
Pavement Width, meters:                       6
Pavement Camber, per cent:                    4
Pavement Type:                                Selected local gravel, averaging
20 cm thick*
Maximum Gradient, per cent:                   9
Minimum Radius, meters:                       400 for 100 kph
70 for 40 kph
Design Axle Loading, lbs:                     22,000
Design Bridge Loading:                        H20-S16 for Tekkezie River
Bridge. For Saubumaye, Galooge
and Royan Rivers: a single
truck with trailer having a
loaded gross weight of 37 tons
Average Embankment Height,
meters:                                       0.8*
Minor Drainage Structures:                    Pipe or box culverts with
paved fords, (drifts) whenever
practical
*     In areas of black cotton soil the top 15 cm of embankment will be stabilized
with river sand.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 5
Highway Construction Supervision Unit
One Senior Road Construction Supervisor;
One Assistant Road Construction Supervisor;
One Concrete Supervisor;
Two Field Equipment Mechanics;
Local counterpart personnel for any of the above positions for which expatriate
experts are employed.


