Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19922
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND CREDIT NO. 024033
December 8, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 10/13/1999)
Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (KM)
KM1.8= US$ 1
US$ 1 = KMO.55
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC    -      European Commission
ICAO  -      International Civil Aviation Organization
IFOR  -      Implementation Force
IMG   -      International Management Group
PID    -     Project Inplementation Directorate
SFOR  -      Stabilization Force
ECHO -       European Commission Humanitarian Office
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortnan, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:   Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Enn P. Vasur, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                 1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry      2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                         4
5. Major Factors Affecting Imnplementation and Outcome                          8
6. Sustainability                                                               9
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                               10
8. Lessons Learned                                                              13
9. Partner Comments                                                             14
10. Additional Information                                                     24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                            25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                            26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                            28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                            29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components            30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                               31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           32
Annex 8. Contribution of main cofinanciers to the Project                       33
Map IBRD 30627
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thfi
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044390                                       Project Name: EMERG. TRANS. RECON.
Team Leader: Enn Vasur                                    TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date:12/10/99 12:08:37 PM
December 10, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: EMERG. TRANS. RECON.                             LICNumber: 24081; 24033; 24039
Country/Department: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                  Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/03/96                                Effective:                    06/17/96
Appraisal:  01/13/96                                  MTR:
Approval:  03/26/96                                Closing: 06/30/98            06/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/BH MIN. OF FOREIGN S. AND INT'L
COMMUNICATIONS BHMTC
Other Partners: EBRD/EC/IMG/BILATERAL DONORS
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                    Christine Wallich
Sector Manager:      Ricardo A. Halperin                       Hans Apitz
Team Leader at ICR:   Enn Peter Vasur
ICR Primary Author:   Enn Peter Vasur; Aymeric-Albin
Meyer
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S=Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN=-Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)                   ICR
Quality at Entry:                                               HS
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In December 1995, a comprehensive Reconstruction Program for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which identified
reconstruction needs in 13 different sectors, and totalled US$5.2 billion, was presented to the intemational
donor community. The overall program included a Three Year Transport Reconstruction Program
requiring comnmitments of US$698 mnillion. The Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (the project),
was conceived as the first phase of the Transport Program, in an amnount of US$149 million. In 1997 a
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project, in an amount of US$183 million, was prepared and
approved and is now under implementation. The main objective of the project was to restore the main
communication links to support economic recovery. Initially, the project was designed to include
reconstruction activities countrywide, but before Board presentation, the project had to be redesigned to
exclude reconstruction activities in Republika Srpska, as at that time the international community did not
find it appropriate to support reconstruction there.
The project aimed at reconstructing and repairing urgent high priority links and services in the transport
systern - particularly roads, bridges, tunnels, the railways, Sarajevo airport and urban transport, and to
provide equipment and assistance to prepare, implement and maintain project works, as well as to provide a
framework for future development of transport activities. The project was presented to the Board with a
financing gap of US$59.4 million, and as such, one of the objectives of the project was to close the
financing gap. The project was designed according to a modular structure with independent subprojects
which could be picked up by donors at any time and be implemented with different schedules. This design
has played an essential role in ensuring success in implementation and coordination. Annex 8 shows the
contributions of main cofinanciers to the project.
The objectives of the project were clear and realistic, although ambitious in terms of: (i) the number of
activities which needed to be carried out in order to achieve the project's objectives; and (ii) the efforts
required to ensure coordination among more than 12 cofinanciers and a speedy implementation in an
environment lacking efficient government structures and unity. The project contained relatively simple
components, but the number of those components, as well as the number of participants to be consulted in
order to ensure an efficient implementation, resulted in a complex project, which at the time of Board
presentation and during at least the first year of implementation, was also a risky project for two reasons.
The first relates to dissension between the three ethnic groups, and especially the Bosniacs and Croats, at
the level of both the State and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second reason was the size
of the initial financing gap, about US$60 million or about 40% of the total project cost. Over the
implementation period, it became clear that the project would be able to meet its objectives, as consensus
on project-related matters became easier to achieve, and the financing gap was closed eventually. Overall,
the project required intensive supervision for mainly two reasons: (i) with respect to those activities
implemented through local structures, strong support to those new structures was required, especially
during the first year of implementation; and (ii) a number of donors had chosen to handle implementation
on their own. It has been noted that this choice generally resulted in high operating costs as well as in
relatively less efficient implementation than would have been the case with a more coordinated approach
while responding better to the particular requirements of various donors. Nevertheless, and as detailed in
the sections below, the project has fully responded to the country needs.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objectives the project comprised the following components:
(i)    Roads: overlay and rehabilitation of about 180 km of high priority road length to restore about
750km of the main network to serviceable condition;
(ii)    Reconstruction of about 21 high priority bridges to eliminate lengthy and/or dangerous deviations;
(iii)   International Bridges: reconstruction of the Brcko rail and Orasje road bridges across the Sava
river to permit the flow of international traffic;
(iv)   Tunnels and Land Slides: repair of damaged tunnels and of land slides on critical road links;
(v)    Construction and Maintenance Equipment: the provision of equipment to contractors to support the
rehabilitation of the road network and also equipment to begin to re-establish the more urgent
maintenance activities;
(vi)   Asphalt and Quarry Equipment: the provision of equipment needed to supply base and surfacing
material for urban street, road and airport rehabilitation;
(vii)   Railway Equipment: equipment required to open lines from Ploce to Sarajevo for 6-7 pairs of
trains per day, and the opening of lines to Zenica and Vares;
(viii)  Sarajevo Airport: the first phase of a rehabilitation program to enable safe and secure operations of
scheduled aviation services at the airport in accordance with ICAO standards and recommended
practices;
(ix)   Urban Transport: provision of urban transit buses, spare parts and associated workshop equipment
and spares and equipment for the Sarajevo tram and trolley bus systems to permit the movement of
people and the resumption of economic activity,
(x)    Street Safety Equipment: the provision of urban street safety equipment including traffic lights,
sign manufacturing equipment, and equipment for the more urgent street repairs;
(xi)   Technical Assistance: services and equipment to assist with project implementation, institutional
strengthening, preparation for further rehabilitation works and for setting up transport planning
institutions;
(xii)  Project Implementation Directorates (PIDs): the setting up and operation of PIDs in the BHMTC,
and FMTC;
(xiii)  Gorazde Road Preparation: preliminary studies and investigation and design of new road to
Gorazde, as required by the Dayton Agreement;
(xiv)  Mine Clearing: services to clear all project sites of mines;
(xv)   Supply of Bitumen for road works to intercity and city streets; and Supply of Fuel to assist in
starting civil works and urban transport operations at the earliest.
Project Implementation Framework
To support the project, the Bank provided a US$35 million credit on IDA terms. In addition, the Bank
administered, on behalf of the Government of Italy, a US$2.7 million grant as well as, on behalf of the
Government of the Netherlands, a US$0.8 million grant. The Bank-administered part of the project,
thereafter referred to as the Bank Component, (comprising activities funded through Bank and Trust Funds
moneys), thus totalled US$38.5 million and was used mainly for rehabilitation of road sections, bridges,
and tunnels as well as provision of consultant services (including design, supervision, and assistance to the
implementation agencies). In addition, it permitted the rehabilitation of two electric locomotives now in use
on part of the Sarajevo-Ploce line. Aside from funding administered by the Bank, the project was funded
by another 12 multilateral and bilateral financing agencies, a number which implies that timely circulation
of reliable information was essential to the success of the project.
- 3 -



Activities Identification
The project, as presented to the Board, contained detailed lists of activities to be carried out for most of the
transport subsectors. The project components were targeted on immediate post-war needs, which were
mainly related to physical reconstruction and resumption of transport operations. The activities had been
identified based on damage assessments prepared by the authorities in association with the Intemational
Management Group (IMG), reviewed by the EBRD, EC and Bank project teams. In addition, the technical
assistance component of the project provided for assistance in implementation and in institution-building
efforts. As such, the project components were adequately designed to ensure that the project could reach its
objectives. Within the various project components, most of the activities foreseen at project appraisal have
been carried out. However, a number of changes have been made during the course of implementation
resulting from: (i) a certain number of road/rail rehabilitation activities were carried out by IFOR/SFOR;
(ii) cost estimates made during project preparation, especially for the road rehabilitation component of the
project, appeared at imnplementation to be too high, allowing additional activities for the same amount of
available financing.
Implementation/Supervision
Implementation was carried out in mainly three different ways: (i) through their own implementing
agencies; (ii) through IMG; and (iii) through the Project Implementation Directorates (PIDs) set up
originally to implement Bank-administered funds. Among the main donors, the Bank and EBRD have used
the PIDs; the US, Japan and the EC have used their own agencies. Some Italian, ECHO and EC donations
have also been implemented through IMG. Supervision was carried out by the agencies in charge of
implementation. Implementation progress under the overall project was supervised primarily by IMG and
the Bank.
Coordination
Coordination between donors was ensured: (i) at a general level, by regular updates (both in the form of
progress reports prepared by the Bank and donor conferences co-chaired by the European Commission and
the Bank) to the donor community on implementation progress and remaining activities to be financed; and
(ii) with respect to specific activities of interest to a donor, mainly by IMG which chaired the Transport
Task Force meetings (these meetings, including representatives of the different participants involved in the
reconstruction of the transport sector, were held regularly in Sarajevo to ensure circulation of information
related to implementation progress and issues), created and maintained a database of implementation
progress, status of donors' commitments, and unfunded activities, and supported nascent governmental
structures in identifying and compiling comprehensive lists of priority activities, as well as in dealing with
the donor community.
3.3 Revised Components:
As explained above, elements of certain components have been modified by representatives of donors and
governments agreeing on the financing of activities not included in the project.
3.4 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as highly satisfactory. This is based on the consistency of the objectives with
the overall reconstruction program as well as with government priorities. The assumption about needs,
implementation arrangements capacity and priorities were, as it turned out, fully realistic and in line with
the situation on the ground as it unfolded.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
When commenting on the outcome/achievements it is necessary to make a distinction between the project in
- 4 -



the broader sense as supported by various donors and the Bank Component. Each donor organised the
implementation and supervision for the part for which it provided financing. This type of arrangement
implies that different parts of the project have been implemented at different paces, with some activities
already completed this year (such as activities financed out of Bank-administered funds), and other
activities still ongoing.
Although Bank supervision missions followed the progress of the whole project, its knowledge of the Bank
Component is obviously much more complete. There were also various efforts to keep all participants
informed about each others progress, mainly through IMG sponsored coordination meetings. However,
each donor exercised authority and responsibility for its part only. The project has successfully achieved
most of its objectives, in some cases well beyond the original expectations. The project succeeded in
restoring the highest priority links and services as foreseen, and the Second Emergency Transport
Reconstruction Project was approved in August 1997 to continue along the same lines.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Roads (including bridges and tunnels)
The project as a whole financed works which allowed the rehabilitation of road sections on about 900 km
of the main network, to rehabilitate 3 tunnels and to reconstruct 32 bridges, including the Brcko rail bridge
and Orajse-Zupanja bridge between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina across the Sava river. This
bridge has been the first permanent road link rehabilitated across the Sava River. Construction and
maintenance equipment worth US$8 million has been provided to contractors and road maintenance
companies, in order to support the restart of a construction industry once a significant contributor to the
area's economy. This is considerably less than the originally estimated US$19 million, as during project
implementation it became clear that the amount of equipment needed to be financed separately, had been
overestimated at appraisal. Although equipment was needed, most of it was acquired by contractors in
connection with works contracts, as is the case usually. The project, and especially the Bank Component
(given the prompt availability of resources and procurement procedures encouraging local participation to
the bidding process) has had a strong impact in supporting the revival of the once strong consulting and
construction industry, and thus played a definite role in employment generation and restart of economic
activities. Finally, the preliminary design of the Gorazde road has been undertaken. This road was
mentioned in the Dayton Agreement to be built to connect the Gorazde pocket to the rest of the Federation.
Unfortunately, the difficult terrain on which the road was supposed to be built made the construction cost
prohibitive and no activity on this specific project was undertaken beyond the preliminary design. The road
component is rated highly satisfactory.
Railways
The major part of the railway network has been rehabilitated, mostly through EU and USAID financing.
About US$20 million have been invested in reconstructing railway infrastructure and facilities and, from a
technical aspect, there are no physical obstacles to functioning railway traffic on any of the railway lines,
although on some sections with limited speed. Nevertheless, railway traffic is minimal. There are several
reasons to explain this situation: (i) the main one, persisting political dissension which manifests itself in an
absence of cooperation between the three railway companies (one in RS and two defacto in the
Federation), which impedes potential traffic to transit from an area dominated by one entity to another; and
(ii) a lack of sustained demand for railway traffic resulting from the non-resumption, following the
hostilities, of the industries which used to generate a substantial part of the freight volumes, as well as
changes in modal split, due to competitive road transport services and strong political interest in road
transport. Finally, while it would be a legitimate question to ask whether the rehabilitation of all of the
main network was required from an economic point of view, two facts need to be taken into account: (i)
IFOR/SFOR has undertaken rehabilitation activities selected solely on the basis of military needs, not
- 5 -



economic considerations; and (ii) the political situation in the country both during project preparation and
implementation would not allow any meaningful discussion between the entities to take place on which lines
to disregard. Nevertheless, the component is rated satisfactory as it has achieved the objective of enabling
rail traffic on the main railway lines.
Civil Aviation
From a situation in which no civilian flights could use Sarajevo Airport in Spring 1996, ten carriers have
now scheduled flights to Sarajevo. The runway has been repaved, the airport area cleared of mines, the
control tower rebuilt, and safety as well as fire fighting equipment provided. The rehabilitation of the
passenger terminal is nearing completion, and the supply of navigational equipment is still ongoing, which
limits the airport's accessibility to civilian flights during night time and in case of bad weather. Airport
operations are still supervised by IFOR/SFOR troops, but authority is being gradually transferred to
civilian staff, who received assistance in operation as well as training to get ICAO certification. Bosnia
and Herzegovina has also three small airports located in Tuzla (mainly a military airfield), Banja Luka and
Mostar. These airports sustained relatively little damage from the hostilities and both Tuzla and Banja
Luka airports have remained serviceable. While no rehabilitation for these minor airports were foreseen
under this project, the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project included investments both for
the Banja Luka and Mostar airports. Achievement under this component is rated satisfactory.
Urban Transport component
About 200 new and second-hand buses have been delivered to Sarajevo and the main cities of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. In addition, Sarajevo has been provided with two new trams and spare parts for existing
ones. Although it is recognised that cost-efficiency of operations needs to be significantly improved (the
project foresaw that a study to make recommendations on how to improve efficiency would be carried out;
however no donor showed interest in financing the study), it is estimated that the component has fully
achieved its objective of restoring the provision of public transport services to an adequate level.
Achievement under the component is rated highly satisfactory.
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance has proven critical in: (i) ensuring an efficient implementation of project activities at a
time when local implementation capacities were just being re-established. The component has provided for
assistance to PIDs in implementing various project components and financing of project design and
supervision but has not, intentionally, been primarily directed towards institution building; and (ii) speeding
up decision-making processes related to project matters within nascent political structures, notably through
the transport task force. The component also provided technical support to the Governments in adapting
road, railway and civil aviation institutions to the new political situation. In the road sector, a Road User
Charges study was carried out. In the railway sector, assistance was provided in order to find out a
solution to resume viable operations country-wide. There has been progress on this issue through the
establishment of a Railway Public Corporation in 1998, but a satisfactory solution for the railways is yet to
come. Institution building in the civil aviation sector has been more successful: under the lead of the Office
of the High Representative, a Bosnia and Herzegovina Department for Civil Aviation as well as an
International Aviation Secretariat have been created.
As explained in the institutional development section below, the very nature of the project implied that
institutional development was not a primary project objective. In addition, persisting political dissension
has considerably limited the impact of the institutional strengthening activities foreseen at appraisal time.
For these reasons, achievement under this component is rated highly satisfactory with respect to
implementation of the project physical components.
- 6 -



Mine Clearing
At the project's design stage, mine clearing was intended to be carried out as part of the project. However,
as project implementation started, the Bank approved an Emergency Landmine Clearance Project, which
was intended to undertake emergency clearance activities under the Bank's various projects, to restore
access to sites before reconstruction activities could proceed. In addition, mine clearance on part of the
project sites was carried out by IFOR/SFOR as well as by local demining capacities. As a result, there has
been little mine detection/removal financed under the project, and most related activity focused on
coordination with mine clearing agencies, mainly IFOR/SFOR and local authorities to ensure that the
suspected presence of mines would not delay reconstruction activities. In this respect, the component's
objective has been fully met, as there has not been any significant implementation delay induced by mines.
Note: IFOR/SFOR has made a significant contribution to the rehabilitation of the transport sector in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. IFOR/SFOR, to comply with its mandate of ensuring that the transport networks
of strategic importance be operational to minimum military standard, put in place more than 40 temporary
bridging structures on the road network, participated in road maintenance and winter clearance activities,
ensured operations at the main airports, and participated in the rehabilitation of the main rail roads.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
T'he Economic Rate of Return on the Bank Component was given as 50% at appraisal. This was based on
rough assumptions about traffic development, vehicle operating cost reductions, and road reconstruction
costs. Although there have been no traffic counts or systematic roads/bridges condition surveys carried out
neither during project preparation nor during implementation, it is evident that traffic increase has been
very rapid on the main network, and that road network conditions have improved significantly as a result of
the rehabilitation works carried out under the project. This, together with the lower than expected
construction costs, would indicate that the ERR would not be less than indicated at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was the first emergency reconstruction in the sector. As such, it did not have any institutional
development objectives beyond creating efficient institutions to imnplement the project on a day to day basis.
As the pre-war institutions were no longer functioning, the project established a number of PID's (Project
Implementation Directorate), which have been used primarily by the Bank and EBRD. Three such PIUYs
were established, one for the Sarajevo airport, and two for the road and bridge components, with one on the
state level and the other in the Federation. For the other comnponents, such as railways and urban transport,
there were existing organizations which could handle the reconstruction. The state level PID's have to a
large extent been subsumed into the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Foreign Trade and International
Communications (BHMTC). The Federation Transport PID has developed into an efficient unit for the
management of contracts and works which to a large extent plays the role of such a department in a normal
Road Administration.
A comprehensive institutional development effort undertaken under the project has been through the
creation of a Transport Corporation in accordance with Annex 9 of the Dayton Agreement. The set up and
leadership within the Transport Corporation has been ensured by the Office of the High Representative,
and was aimed at providing a framework to ensure the restart of transport operations, especially in the
road, civil aviation and railway sub-sectors country-wide and on a sustainable basis. The Transport
Corporation has been focusing on the railways, in which there is still today lack of agreement between the
Entities to allow full resumption of traffic countrywide. The same political dissension has impeded so far
- 7 -



any significant progress with respect to the organization and operation of road maintenance activities in the
Federation. More success has been encountered with the resumption of civilian activities at the Sarajevo
Airport. The Airport Authority has been re-established and a Civil Aviation Authority has been created at
the State level. Part of the success can be probably explained by: (i) contrary to the road and railway
systems, the airport is physically controlled by only one Entity-, and (ii) air traffic is less easy to impede
than road or rail traffic.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although the project was conceived to allow for speedy implementation there were three main factors
outside of government control which delayed project implementation:
(i) unequal performance of the different donors in terms of resource availability and implementation
efficiency. While high amounts were pledged by the donor community to the rehabilitation of the transport
sector, disbursements by certain donors represent a relatively small portion of the amounts committed.
While some of the difference can be explained by double-counting and reallocation of pledges from one
sector to another, there have been cases in which inefficient implementation procedures and/or lack of
coordination with the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina have resulted in significant implementation
delays.
(ii) the extensive coordination required between the 15 main cofinanciers. This factor affected particularly
the Sarajevo airport reconstruction, during which lengthy discussions and coordination between the 6
donors were needed before necessary decisions could be taken. The works for the airport included in the
project are expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
(iii) IFOR's requirements which affected a number of bridge projects. Because of IFOR's requirements not
to allow any interruption in traffic on some roads, particularly on the main road from Sarajevo to Mostar,
some bridge projects had to investigate elaborate altemative options and solutions not originally
anticipated. The sometimes unexpected unavailability of temporary bridges, which were usually provided
by IFOR, caused rearrangements in schedules and delays.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Unresolved political problems between and within the Entities has so far impeded agreement on sector basic
policies, especially in:
* the railway sector: Resumption of railway traffic was under the control of the political forces once the
repairs which enabled traffic to resume were completed. Apart from a number of showcase trains
which were run for visiting foreign dignitaries and trains carrying military equipment, train traffic has
yet to resume on a more regular and extensive basis; and
*   the road sector: efficient Road Administration structures and road maintenance funding mechanisms
are still lacking in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
For the roads and bridge components, those questions which depended on the performance of the PIDs, had
no major problems. Their performance has been very good throughout the project, and has been a major
contributing factor to the fast and efficient implementation.
5.4 Costs and financing:
-8 -



With respect to significant financing arrangements, the major change which occurred during project
implementation has been the closing of the financing gap of US$59 million. The closing happened
gradually over the first two years of implementation.
With respect to actual costs, this paragraph deals only with the Bank Component, as very little information
is available regarding the actual costs of the activities carried out by the other cofinanciers. Actual costs
turned out to be substantially below original estimates. This is especially true for road reconstruction
where for the Bank financed sections the actual contract values were about 15% lower than estimates. This
difference has two explanations. The main one is that competition works, it does reduce costs. The other
one is that the cost estimates have not followed the decrease in prices caused by the competition, although a
lag in this respect is to be expected. For bridges there were fairly significant design changes during
construction and ensuing variation orders caused by the closer inspection enabled by access to the bridge
once demining had been completed. For the road reconstruction contracts another contributing factor was
that the extent of the works can vary depending on the circumstances and the available budget. The lower
than expected bid prices freed up resources and there was a legitimate wish to use these resources by
increasing the extent of the reconstruction accordingly. This was agreed in a number of cases. The net
effect of the over and under estimates described above was a total final cost very close to the cost estimates.
Implementation and disbursement delays
The project documents present an implementation schedule only for the Bank Component. This is deemed
reasonable, given the uncertainty, at Board presentation stage, related to the closing of the financing gap
and the timeframe within which the different donors could realize their pledges. As of October 1999, it is
estimated that it will take at least another year before the whole of the project will be completed. The
delays in implementation which led to the postponement of the Bank Credit closing date (from June 30,
1998 to June 30, 1999) is attributed to two factors. One was those factors outside government control as
described in paragraph 5.1 above. The other one had to do with the Orasje-Zupanja bridge between
Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina across the Sava river. This bridge, financed in equal parts from a
Bank Credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina and a Bank Loan to Croatia, required extensive coordination. This
was the first major project between the two countries and the cooperation and approval arrangements, as
well as agreements on legal and technical procedures were not available but had to be developed as part of
this component. Despite this, this bridge was completed before any other Sava river road bridge was even
under construction and it was completed on schedule (in relation to the contract) and within the budget.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project was conceived and implemented as an emergency reconstruction project. The basic objective
of the project was to reopen the main transport network and to restart transport operations. As such, it
dealt primarily with physical reconstruction activities and there were no primary considerations of
sustainability. Nevertheless, works carried out have been of high quality and maintenance capacity has
been restored, which ensures their sustainability. In addition, the two electric locomotives rehabilitated
under the project are being used and facilities are available to ensure their maintenance. Finally, the Bank
Component allowed to set up fully operational project implementation units and to prepare the ground for
the establishment of a functioning road administration in the Federation. However, the long-term
sustainability of the Bank Component will depend on political decisions with respect to road maintenance
funding and organization. The sustainability of the Bank Component is thus rated only as likely, as it is
difficult to determine at this stage whether the appropriate decisions will be taken.
For the remaining part of the project, the provision of equipment has allowed the restart of the construction
-9-



industry, which is now in a position to meet local demand as well as to undertake necessary maintenance
works. In the same way, the supply of buses to urban transport companies has allowed to restart
operations and revenues generation. Finally, the rehabilitation of the Sarajevo airport, the training of its
staff, and the settlement reached with respect to the payment of part of the overflight charges collected in
1998 has been a major step toward the sustainability of civil aviation operations in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. However, long-term sustainability of the activities carried out under the project is still
uncertain, mainly due to a lack of commitment on the side of the Governments to come to grips with the
underlying issues, especially in:
*   the road maintenance sector in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina where formal maintenance
funding mechanisms have not yet been set up, and the statutes of the Road Administration not yet
finalized; and
*   the railway sector, in which there are two main issues to tackle: (i) the dramatic fall in demand, as
production on significant levels has yet failed to materialize in the heavy industry sector; and (ii) the
lack of appropriate management and operational structures.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted above, regular operations have resumed in the urban transport sector and are underway at the
Sarajevo Airport. In the road maintenance and railway sectors, regular operations have not yet restarted.
The Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project, approved in August 1997, has been designed as
a follow-up operation to support the continuation of the transport sector rehabilitation, with a focus on
assisting the Entities in re-establishing, in the road sector, functioning institutions as well as to restore a
minimum level of maintenance budgets. It is also necessary, in the railway sector, to adapt operations and
management structures to the prevailing and likely future traffic volumes. It is obvious that little can be
achieved in these areas without a strong commitment on the side of the Govermments.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's preparation of the project, done together with EBRD, was very fast and fully corresponded to
its emergency nature. The identification mission took place in November 1995, in the context of the
preparation of the report for the first donor conference to support the reconstruction of Bosnia and
Herzegovina in December 1995. Given the emergency nature of the project and the fact that the country
was not accessible for any Bank economic or sector work over the previous 4 to 5 years, the project was
based essentially on the content of the first donor conference report and on infonnation gathered during
appraisal. Appraisal took place in January 1996, negotiations in March, 1996, project approval on April
1, 1996 and the project became effective on June 17, 1996. In addition, to jump-start project
implementation, a Project Start-Up Advance was prepared and made effective on April 1, 1996. The
Project Start-Up Advance financed design activities as well as first payments for civil works, until the main
part of the credit became effective in June, 1996. The Advance was very instrumental in ensuring a speedy
start of the activities under the Bank Component. Given the prevailing conditions, the pace and substance
of the project preparation/appraisal phase represents a very speedy and adequate reaction from the Bank's
side. The performance of the Bank during the project lending phase is rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
During the first year and half of implementation the Project Manager was stationed in Sarajevo. This
helped the implementation and the supervision since the institutions were new and had no experience from
the Bank and other International Financial Institutions operations. This presence enabled the Bank to be in
almost daily contact with the problems and to contribute to the decisions which had to be taken. From late
1997 onwards supervision missions were fielded from Washington, usually twice a year. In addition,
- 10-



especially during the first year of implementation, there has been intense support provided by Bank staff
almost on a daily basis to ensure that implementation be jump-started as much as possible. Finally, a
permanent procurement assistance remained in the field from mid 1996 till October 1998, which
contributed significantly to the speedy resolution of procurement-related matters. The Bank performance
during project implementation is rated as highly satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance can be rated as fully satisfactory, not only in relation to the objectives
established for the project, but also in comparison with the achievements in the sector as a whole.
Whereas, as of October 1999, the contracts under implementation and completed, as a percentage of
amounts committed, for the five main donors represent 68% and 55% respectively, the corresponding
percentages for the Bank-financed part of the project were 94% and 87%. In addition, the Bank took the
lead in setting up and supporting local project implementation capacity which, as detailed below, turned out
to be rapidly able to quickly and efficiently implement projects funded from donor resources. Finally, the
Bank had a definite catalytic role in helping to secure cofinancing to the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Note: the following sections evaluate the overall performance of Governments only in relation to the Bank
Component. With respeet to the project components financed by other donors, it has been generally
observed that, while the Governments have been involved in the identification of specific activities, their
involvement in donors' project preparation and implementation has been limited. One of the reasons has
been the fact that most donor-funded activities were also donor-implemented.
The Borrower participated in a satisfactory manner in the preparation of the project, despite the number of
other competing tasks the Borrower had to undertake at once following the end of the hostilities. The
political questions inherent to the structure of the Bosnia Herzegovina Governments were resolved usually
quite efficiently within the Government structure and thus did not cause major problems during project
preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
During implementation, governmental structures were present at 2 levels: (i) the Bosnia and Herzegovina
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (which succeeded the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry
of Finance in being the Borrower's representative). This Ministry was involved in a general supervisory
capacity, and its support in dealing with general project and policy issues proved most valuable; and (ii) the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Transport, in charge of the implementation of those
activities within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (about 75% of the credit amount was onlent to
the Federation), and the Bank's main counterpart in discussing road maintenance issues within the
Federation. The Ministry has been very diligent in resolving daily issues arising from the implementation
of the Bank-administered components. However, the political dissension within the Federation has not so
far allowed the Ministry to complete the institutional agenda related to the creation of: (i) a fully
operational Road Administration; and (ii) funding mechanisms for road maintenance. The performance of
the Borrower during implementation is thus rated as satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The two implementation agencies in charge of the Bank-administered parts of the project, i.e., the State and
Federation Transport PID's, proved both to be very efficient organizations. The number of tasks of the
State PID in relation to the Bank's financing, was limited to the Orasje-Zupanja bridge reconstruction and
the repair of two electric locomotives. In addition, the State PID had other tasks related to other donors.
-1I1I-



The bridge, which spans the Sava river between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, was a major
undertaking, financed in equal parts from the project and the Bank's Emergency Transport and Landmine
Clearance Project for Croatia. Demining and reconstruction of three river spans totaling 340m were to be
carried out in cooperation with Croatia. However, such cooperation was not available in the aftermath of
the hostilities and had to be developed as part of this component. For this purpose, an international body
for the restoration of destroyed links between the two countries was formed, in which the State PID played
an essential coordinating and intermediation role. The body has since then been used by both countries and
interested parties to discuss issues related to the reconstruction of the other links between the two countries.
The development and application of these bilateral agreements required a substantial amount of time and
effort, from the PI[Js as well as from the Bank missions. The State PID has been handling very efficiently
the implementation of this both technically and politically complex project, knowing how to foster
consensus without compromising the project technical quality or deadline. By the time the bridge was
completed and inaugurated, on schedule and according to budget, none of the other Sava river road bridges
for which preparations had started at the same time as for the Orasje bridge, were yet under construction.
The State PID has thus developed into a valuable unit which could be used to provide implementation
expertise and services for other State projects involving international investments.
The Federation PID administered about 120 design, supervision and construction contracts to implement
activities financed out of Bank-administered resources. In addition, it also took care of another 40
contracts for EBRD. The PID consisted of one director, two technical staff and I accounting staff, and
technical assistance for project administration was provided (two expatriates at the beginning and one later
on, once the PID had passed the steepest part of the learning curve). The performance of the PID has been
very good. The contracts have been professionally administered, completed in most cases on time. As
experience has been gained and the extemal conditions have changed, appropriate modifications and
improvements have been introduced. The proper functioning of the PID has been attested in the audits of
contracts which have been regularly undertaken by the PMAU (Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit).
The PID has evolved into a well functioning unit which, with appropriate financial resources, would fulfil
the role of a planning/construction department in a Road Administration.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance for the Bank Component, is judged as highly
satisfactory.
- 12-



8. Lessons Learned
For an emergency reconstruction project where speedy implementation is central, the establishment of the
PIDs was crucial. Their tasks were confined to project implementation so that full attention could be
devoted to it. The selection of the members of the PID, as well as their remuneration was also outside of
standard Government practices. Although it is questionable to advocate the establishment of such, in some
respects, enclave units to fulfil basically normal Government functions, in the case of Bosnia-Herzegovina
this was fully justified at the time since the basic normal Govermment functions had not yet been
established. It did help to re-establish some important functions which can play central roles in the future
development of the road administrations.
The project, in its larger definition, included about a dozen different donors. As explained above, the
Bank's definition of the project was two-fold, i.e., this larger definition as well as those components
financed by the Bank. The Bank took upon itself to keep abreast of the progress achieved in the
components financed by the other donors but otherwise did not interfere. This decentralized way of
working is a good and maybe the only possibility. It is thus better to eliminate the need for coordination at
the outset instead of engaging in time consuming coordination with questionable efficiency. However, the
Transport Task Force meetings, of a rather informational character which were regularly called and chaired
by IMG, were appropriate, effective, well organized, and useful.
If a project is an emergency reconstruction project it is important to keep it simple in order to concentrate
on the reconstruction. It therefore seems doubtful to include items dealing with longer term institution
building issues. The recipient clearly focuses on the emergency aspect and the developmental aspects
therefore, which usually are connected to totally different problems, do not stay in focus but rather tend to
be quite neglected. The recipient well understands those aspects which are of an emergency nature to the
country. At the same time it should be kept in mind that basic problems with respect to institutions remain
and unless solutions to these are found, major difficulties will arise rather soon.
Tlhe particular circumstances under which the project has been implemented has allowed to draw several
important lessons in order to achieve the principal goals of emergency recovery operations:
(i) keep scope of projects and procurement rules simple;
(ii) involve as much as possible the local industry in the implementation of the programs;
(iii) provide local structures and knowledge as much as possible in project design and implementation;
(iv) multicountry components have required heavy Bank staff involvement, more than proportional to the
size of the component;
(v) provide local structures and involve foreign assistance only when required;
(vi) in sub-sectors in which progress is usually slow (e.g. railways), radical altematives such as fast
privatization, should be actively pursued;
(vii) ensure a continuous dialogue between aid agencies and local structures to build trust and transparency,
and ensure efficient project implementation, but do not establish the need for extensive coordination;
(viii) local project implementation units must be made clearly accountable of their activities by the
supervising governmental units;
(ix) make aid coordination more effective by lessening the need for it.
- 13-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.  Introduction
1.1    Prior to the hostilities, the transport system of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bosnia and Herzegovina)
was organized to meet the needs of the former Yugoslavia. Inland transport was provided by a road system
(including 8,600 km of main and regional roads). As with other sectors, the ability of the transport sector to
function was seriously affected by the hostilities. Virtually all parts of the transport system had been
damaged, either as a result of direct targeting, by the movements of military vehicles on roads which were not
designed to carry heavy traffic, or by lack of maintenance and spare parts for more than four years.
1.2    Roads: The four years of hostilities affected the entire road network. Virtually no road maintenance
was carried out and this combined with military traffic caused significant deterioration in road pavements.
Roads either near or used as bypasses around shifting confrontation lines suffered the most, with some
sections of regional and local roads requiring complete reconstruction. Also roads used as deviations around
downed bridges were breaking up. While some sections of main roads exhibited only superficial signs of
apparent wear, they were well past due periodic maintenance and visible distress was expected shortly with a
more rapid deterioration setting in quickly. Approximately 28% of the main and regional network required
immediate attention, within a three year program, to remedy both damage and the more severe effects of
maintenance neglect.
1.3    Bridges: Bridges are prime strategic targets in military operations and during the four years of
hostilities, about 70 bridges were damaged with about 25 of these being made impassable. Many of these
bridges were on main routes with the principal crossings being maintained through makeshift deviations or
single lane military bridges. Although, for some of the impassable bridges, both part or all of the
superstructure and, in some cases, piers and/or pier heads had been destroyed, many had the piers and
abutments still standing and most reconstruction would be confined to replacement of the decks. Demolition
of the damaged sections and downed decks would form a significant part of the reconstruction costs. Also
areas around and beneath some of the damaged bridges had been mined.
1.4   Sava/Una River Bridges: All ten bridges connecting the Republic of Croatia with Bosnia and
Herzegovina across the Sava and Una rivers were impassable after the hostilities. Some were completely
destroyed while others had one or two spans cut. At least one of the destroyed bridges was still mined. The
biggest part of the road and full railway traffic were cut completely from the rest of the Europe. There were
two ferry boats in function on border crossing near by Orasje.
1.5    Construction and Maintenance Equipment: Many items of construction and maintenance equipment
were damaged, destroyed or purloined during the hostilities. Much of the remainder suffered from neglect due
to an inability to use the equipment or through lack of spare parts. Shortage of the equipment initially
hampered reconstruction of the transport system. Of particularly high priority was the need for asphalt plants
and quarries to supply material for the repair of both the road network and the city streets.
1.6    Railways: The railway system was severely damaged and, within the Federation, with the exception
of some minor lengths was not functioning. An EU initiative was already underway to reopen the main trunk
line between Sarajevo and Ploce.
1.7    Airports: The runway, taxiways and aprons at Sarajevo airport were severely cracked and most of
the air traffic control equipment had been destroyed. The passenger terminal was damaged significantly.
- 14-



1.8   Ports: The port of Ploce, which capacities had been used by Bosnia and Herzegovina mostly, located
in the Republic of Croatia, was bombed during the hostilities. The oil terminal had shut down and berths
required urgent rehabilitation and possibly expansion.
1.9    Urban Transport: The public transport system in Sarajevo was barely functioning. Two tram lines
had been rninimally repaired, but other means of public transport required extensive repairs to vehicles,
installations and the workshops.
1.10   Institutions: Most institutions suffered loss of staff and also premises and there was little budgetary
support for their operations. The Roads Directorate (RD) was particularly hard hit with much reduced staff
and no permanent premises. Also, contractors' and consultants' staff were mobilized into the armed forces
and some traveled abroad. Further, much of the professional engineering equipment was destroyed during the
hostilities and funds were limited, following the hostilities, such that institutions had difficulty in obtaining
even the simplest supplies to run their offices.
1.11   Donor Input: In December 1995, in a joint effort with the Government and donor community, the
World Bank assisted in preparing a reconstruction program that envisaged funding requirements of about
US$5 billion over the next three to four years. Within that program, the funding requirements for transport
were estimated at US$698 million to be conunitted over the next three years with first year requirements of
US$301 million.
1.12   The transport program (the Program) was based on a strategy that reconstruction of the transport
network was essential for recovery of economic activity and the unification of the country. Critical links had
to be restored without delay, including those supporting national and international traffic. However, other
investment priorities were influenced by the implementation of the Dayton Agreement and changed traffic
pattems. Population relocation could also generate specific local transport requirements. Therefore with the
uncertainty of demand, the underlying strategy of the Program was to concentrate first on transport systems
which were needed under any scenario and plan in a flexible way to adapt to new information.
1.13   The most important transport links were considered to include the south-north corridor of Ploce
-Sarajevo-Zenica-Tuzla-Orasje and inter-city main and regional roads, roads running east-west in the south
and some street works, particularly in Sarajevo. In addition, there were some new communications required
to ensure freedom of movement. The most urgent needs were proposed to be started in the first year, with
other important communications included in the second and third years.
1.14   Both the World Bank and the EBRD played an important role in assisting with coordination in the
transport sector and facilitating dialogue between the various parties. Both institutions were prepared to
support the coordination function through the establishment of a coordinating body such as an expert
commission or corporation for the sector.
1.15   The First Year Program (FYP) covered those components that were needed most urgently, with other
components included in the second and third years subject to the findings of feasibility studies. The FYP was
to be implemented through two projects. The first, which is the subject of this report, namely the Emergency
Transport Reconstruction Project (ETRP), comprised works to overcome the most serious transport system
constraints and amounted to US$149.0 million. The project included such items as repairs to failing roads,
reconstruction of downed bridges, opening Sarajevo airport to scheduled services, improvement to rail
services and providing initial support to re-establishing urban transport services, principally in Sarajevo.
Preparation work for a proposed second project (Transport I1) were also included. With an estimated cost of
- 15-



about US$150.0 million, Transport II would complete the FYP.
2.   Project Description and Objectives
2.1    The objective of the FYP was to reconstruct and repair urgent high priority links and services in the
transport system - particularly roads, bridges, tunnels, the railways, Sarajevo airport and urban transit, and
to provide equipment and assistance to prepare, implement and maintain the program works and to provide a
framework for the future development and management of the countrys transport system.
2.2    The FYP included the following:
(i)   the rehabilitation of about 375 km of main and regional roads;
(ii)   repairs to tunnels;
(iii)  reconstruction of about 30 road bridges;
(iv)   construction and maintenance equipment;
(v)    provision of asphalt plants and quarries;
(vi)  repair of railway lines, equipment for railways, including telecommunications equipment, spares
for rolling stock etc.;
(vii)  rehabilitation of Sarajevo airport;
(viii)  support for urban transport including the supply of buses and parts and urgent repairs to urban
streets
and traffic systems;
(ix)   the supply of fuel and bitumen; and
(x)   technical assistance for project preparation, implementation and support to transport institutions.
2.3    The ETRP is a slice of this FYP and the objective of the project is identical with that of the Program,
namely to reconstruct and repair high priority links in the transport systenL The components comprised
mostly those items which were adequately funded and of top priority. Preparation was such that the project
objectives included the intention that all the contracts would be awarded during 1996.
2.4    Roads: The project included those sections of high priority roads where only a minimal to medium
level of design work was required. The total of sections was approximately 180 km and included works to the
M17 (the main road from the port of Ploce through Sarajevo to Zenica).
2.5    Bnidges: About twenty one concrete and composite steel/concrete bridges were included for repair or
reconstruction together with some steel modular bridging for high-priority crossings. The modular bridging
was to be sited to allow eventual reconstruction of the bridges during 1997 or 1998. Work was programmed
to commence on two critical bridges in March 1996, namely Jasen and Bijela Bridges situated on the M17
between Jablanica and Mostar.
2.6    The project included the reconstruction of Orasje road bridge over the Sava River connecting Bosnia
and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. The Memorandum of understanding between the Governments
of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, that had been endorsed in 1996, has defined the
coordination procedure between two sides in reconstruction of specified bridge as well as the division of
reconstruction costs in proportion 50:50 %.
2.7    Technical assistance: Provision of consultants' services and engineering equipment to assist: (a) the
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina to carry out the Sava River
international bridges review, the Sava River international bridges design and the Orasje road bridge
reconstruction supervision; and (b) the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications (FMTC) with
- 16 -



Project road and bridge design and construction supervision.
2.8    Mine clearing: Several bridge sites were known to be mined as well as the verges of the paved roads,
rendering repairs and reconstruction work extremely hazardous. All work sites needed to be cleared of mines
out to a distance allowing freedom of movement and operation of construction and repair teams. Mine
clearance was to be undertaken only by contract, with supervision by a National Mine Action Agency.
2.9    Vehicles, engineering and design equipment: Equipment and goods were to be provided for the
Roads Directorate and local consultants for preparatory work and construction supervision.
2.10   Railway equipment: The project included the provision of equipment and materials for the railway
infrastructure, to complement the assistance underway by the EU. Because of lack of the mobile rail vehicles,
the Government had requested from the Bank the funding for repair of two electric locomotives, that was
approved.
2.11   Costs: The estimated cost of the proposed total project was US$149.0 million. Of this US$149.0, the
World Bank would provide US$35.0 million from the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (TFBH) and
the objectives achieved, utilising the above US$35.0 million, are the subject of this Implementation
Completion Report.
Proposed Project Financing Plan
Item                            Total Cost (US$ M)           TFBH (US$ M)
Roads                                  29.8                       12.8
Bridges                                17.0                       12.0
Sava Bridges                           5.5                         4.0
Tunnels                                2.0
Const. & Maint. Equipment              8.7
Asphalt and Quarries                   9.5                         1.0
Railways                               15.4
Sarajevo Airport                       23.6
Buses                                  12.4                        2.9
Trains and Trolleys                    5.2                         0.5
Safety Equipment                       0.8
Technical Assistance and PIDs          11.6                        1.8
Engineering Equipment                  0.9
Gorazde Road                           2.1
Mine Clearing                          2.5
Bitumen                                2.0
TOTAL                                 149.0                       35.0
2.12 Special Account: In order to facilitate timely project implementation, the Ministry of Finance would
have to establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in
US dollars in a commercial bank.
-17 -



3.   Project Implementation
3.1    Organization of Implementation: Initially the ETRP program was commenced at the end of
February 1996 by the appointment of consultants under the term "Start Up Services (SUS)". The SUS
consultants provided engineering services and assistance to the FMTC to set up the project, arrange for
design and supervision contracts, negotiate direct contracts for the two bridges (Jasen and Bijela), confirm
equipment requirements and prepare specifications and conduct additional road condition surveys.
3.2    This was quickly followed by the establishment of the three Project Implementation Directorates
(PIDs). One each in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Transport and Communications (BHMTC), the
Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications (FMTC) and the Republic of Srpska Ministry of
Transport and Communications (RSMTC) staffed by a local Director and a small staff.
3.3   Institutional Arrangements: The project was implemented through the PIDs. Although initially it
was intended that the PIDs would have the responsibility for overseeing the management of the project
through the actual imnplementing agencies such as the Roads Directorate, the early dissolving of the Roads
Directorate meant that the PIDs had to assume full responsibility for the implementing of the project, with the
assistance of the SUS consultants.
3.4    Roads and Bridges: Initially the SUS contract provided road engineers and, on an intermittent basis,
a bridge engineer for a period of five months. By then, it was intended that an international consulting firm
would be employed to provide "Roads Advisory Services (RAS)" to assist the Roads Directorate in project
implementation and in upgrading the organizations for road maintenance management. However in view of
the dissolving of the Roads Directorate, the SUS contract was extended to provide assistance with
contractual matters and supervision contracts. The RAS consultants' contract did not actually commence
until the Second ETRP was implemented. The SUS consultants therefore assisted the FPID in procuring the
services of local consultants to undertake designs and construction supervision.
3.5   Procurement, Accounts and Reporting: In view of the urgent nature of the ETRP, the works, goods
and services were required to be contracted and supplied quickly so that reconstruction works could start as
soon as possible and also be seen to be starting. Procurement for TFBH financed items and those financed
from Bank administered funds followed the Bank's Guidelines for procurement under emergency projects.
3.6    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published on 21 March 1996. The GPN advertised the
extent of the ETRP and invited expressions of interest from interested contractors, suppliers and consulting
firms. Civil works contractors were advised to request the prequalification documents. For International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), the Bank's standard prequalification documents were followed. However for
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), special documentation was prepared with criteria taking into account
the general state of the civil engineering industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the lack of work, by
contractors, during the period of hostilities.
3.7   In the early stages of the ETRP, contracts were awarded either by Direct Contracting (DC) or by
Simplified National Competitive Bidding (SNCB), in order to proceed with the program as quickly as
possible. As the ETRP progressed, the contractors restored or replaced their equipment and subsequently
became more efficient and competitive. Therefore towards the end of the ETRP, the contracts were then
procured by advertising in the national press and awarded using National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The
contract for the reconstruction of the bridge over river Sava near by Orasje was given according to the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
- 18-



3.8   In all cases, the World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents were used. The documents were
customized and approved for each component to avoid further reviews. The bidding documents were
translated into local language to assist the local contractors and consultants. In order to progress with the
program as quickly as possible, the period allowed for submission of bids was reduced to four weeks. Bids
and currencies were limited to the currency in use in Bosnia following the cessation of hostilities, namely the
Deutsche Mark, but for foreign Contractors, it was limited to the US Dollars.
3.9    Once contracts were awarded, a Special Account was established with ING Bank in Vienna. This
account was monitored by the Federal and State Transport PIDs Transport and they submitted replenishment
applications as required, which included reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
4.   Assessment of the project
Suitability of the project's objectives
4.1    The project's objectives, mentioned in section 2 of this report, were well founded based on the urgent
need to re-establish the transport system and assist in the recovery of economic activity and the unification of
the country.
4.2    The approach of the Banks to establish the Project Implementation Directorates of Transport in
common work with a "Start Up Services" consultants, worked well and because of this, the project was able
to commence on time and move forward quickly.
4.3    Due to the damage to the transport networks, the priorities of the project's objectives virtually
established themselves. The main objectives for the road network were to re-establish the vital link between
the Port of Ploce, and Sarajevo and to the north and also to carry out urgent repair works to the vital bridges
on the main routes.
4.4    Concurrent with these works, the objective of carrying out mine clearance was again of vital
importance in order to protect the consultants and contractors who would carry out the necessary repair and
reconstruction works.
4.5    The second objective in connection with repairs to bridges was the re-establishing of a road
connection across the Sava River to restore the link between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of
Croatia. This was considered to be urgent and of vital importance to the recovery of economic activity.
4.6    The objective of providing equipment and goods to the Roads Directorate and local consultants was
considered to be suitable and necessary. Although the early dissolving of the Roads Directorate, during the
project, deemed the equipment and building repairs for them unnecessary, equipment and goods were vital for
the local consultants who were trying to re-establish themselves following the hostilities.
4.7    Finally, as part of the transport reconstruction program, the objective of provision of equipment and
materials for the railway infrastructure was logical and of vital importance to re-establishing the rail
transport system.
- 19-



Adequacy of the project design and components
4.8   In determining the project components, the International Management Group (IMG) had undertaken
visual inspection of most of the road network, using local consultants to assess the damage repair costs. The
road program was arrived at by using the collected data together with 1987 traffic data adjusted for changes
in traffic patterns. An economic appraisal was also undertaken for each activity proposed in the roads
program: reconstruction, rehabilitation and overlays.
4.9    The bridge repair program was determined by reviewing the critical bottlenecks in the road transport
system caused by bridges destroyed during the course of the hostilities. Temporary bridge structures were in
place on most of the main routes where bridges had been completely destroyed, but they were normally only
single lane. Therefore traffic was delayed as a consequence of the reduced capacity and, at certain locations,
waiting times were considerable. The project bridges selected for financing were on main road links and their
reconstruction/repair would obviate the use of dangerous and/or lengthy deviations.
4.10   As stated earlier in paragraph 4.2, the establishing of the Project Implementation Directorates of
Transport in common work with a "Start Up Services" consultants, enabled the project to comrience on time
and move forward quickly. Contracts for engineering design work and preparation of bidding documents were
soon awarded to local consultants. These local consultants carried out the designs to appropriate and
consistent standards. Work packages were then assembled to enable a variety of procurement methods to be
adopted.
Overall quality and speed ofproject implementation
4.11   The title of the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project speaks for itself of the urgency for
implementation of this project, especially in view of the project's objectives. The early establishment of the"
Start Up Services" consultants ensured that, although in the early stages of the program the Roads
Directorate was not fully functioning and was eventually dissolved, the program was able to progress
quickly. Contracts were negotiated and awarded to local consultants and contractors mainly, concurrently
with the establishing of the three PIDs.
4.12   Bearing in mind the state of the civil engineering industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the
cessation of hostilities, the overall quality of the project implementation was satisfactory in the initial stages
of the program and the quality improved all the time throughout the project. In particular, contractors were
keen to rebuild their companies and many of them re-invested profits within their companies. This became
evident as new equipment was purchased.
4.13   The other very noticeable occurrence during the project, was the increasing competitiveness of the
contractors. Bidding prices fell throughout the project program and this enabled more roads and bridges to be
repaired than was envisaged in the early stages of the project.
4.14   Although the initial intention of the reconstruction program was for all the contracts to be awarded
during 1996 and, this criteria was not met. The main reason for this was that the timing of the construction
contracts was such that in some cases the work encountered the Bosnian winter. Schemes were therefore
forced into 1997 because of the winter weather. In addition to this, as stated earlier, the reduction in prices
ensured that further schemes were brought into the reconstruction program at the request of the Ministry of
Transport and the approval of the World Bank. These could not be undertaken until the construction season
during 1997. Similarly further schemes have been added during 1998 and 1999 as the remaining available
funds have been distributed to repair further sections of the road network. The Contract for the reconstruction
- 20 -



of the bridge over river Sava near by Orasje was contracted in the middle of 1997, because of
indispensability for cooperation between the implementing agencies from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia
and Herzegovina. With the additional works for the bridge lighting, the specified contract was completed in
first half of 1999.
Experience gained during project implementation
4.15   The main experience gained during the project has been by the local consultants in undertaking the
necessary design and supervision contracts using World Bank procurement methods. The local consultants
have prepared the necessary Bidding Documents for the construction contracts.
4.16   One of the main problems, encountered more recently during the project, has been the consultants'
lack of experience in dealing with a competitive market. The consultants, at the present time, appear unable
to adapt their estimating prices to match the contractor's competitive pricing of the contracts. The result of
this has manifested itself in recent contracts, where the consultants have tailored the road rehabilitation works
to match the available budget and this has been followed by the contractors offering more competitive prices
resulting in a lower contract price.
4.17   This at first viewing appears to be a very satisfactory outcome. However when the state of the
existing road condition is also taken into account, the budget is never sufficient to undertake all the necessary
works. If the consultants were better able to anticipate the contractors' prices, then they would be able to
include more rehabilitation works and still stay within the limited budget when the bids are received. During
recent contracts, this has resulted in the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications requesting
approval, from the World Bank, for further expenditure during the rehabilitation contracts in order to try to
utilise the available budget.
4.18   It was also intended as part of the emergency project that the ETRP together with Transport II would
result in bringing road maintenance activities up to an efficient level by providing the Roads Directorate's
road maintenance organizations with equipment such as spare parts and appropriate workshop equipment.
With the early dissolving of the Roads Directorates, the existing experience in road maintenance was lost.
The Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications are now trying to re-establish a Roads Directorate,
but to date there has been no "follow-up" road maintenance program to continue from the rehabilitation
works which have so far been undertaken within the ETRP. With the ending of the first ETRP, the
opportunity to gain maintenance experience from the program has now been lost.
5.     Evaluation of the performance of the State and Federal Project Implementation Directorates
5.1    As stated in the Credit agreement, the execution of the project was split between the State Transport
PID, established in April 1996 formerly within the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Communications now
within the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, and the Federal Transport PID, established in June
1996 within the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications.
5.2    The State Transport PID was responsible for the reconstruction of the Oraje road bridge across the
Sava River, together with the consultants' services for the Sava River international bridges review and design
and the Orasje road bridge reconstruction supervision.
5.3    The Federal Transport PID was responsible for the rehabilitation of the roads, reconstruction of
other bridges, associated mine clearance, together with the consultants' services for the necessary road and
bridge design and construction supervision.
- 21 -



5.4    The established State Transport PID consisted of a Director, an Economist, a Civil Engineer and a
Translator. Similarly the established Federal Transport PID consisted of a Director, two Economists, two
Civil Engineers, a Translator and a Secretary. The FPID Transport was greatly assisted by the SUS
consultants, who were based in the FPID offices and were experienced in both contract preparation and
administration.
5.5    Both PIDs would like to stress the significant contribution of the World Bank representatives based
at the Resident Mission in Sarajevo. Their local support ensured that clarifications and approvals could be
obtained quickly which greatly assisted the speed of implementation of the project.
6.  IDA Trust Fund
6.1    The IDA Trust Fund Credit Agreement provided US$35 million towards the ETRP. The final
allocated expenditure is US$34.288 million.
6.2    This can be broken down into the respective components as follows:
State Transport PID Expenditure
*     Orasje road bridge reconstruction                 US$ 3.785 million
Goods for Railway sector                         US$ 1.064 million
Consultants' services for bridges         US$ 0.189 million
Commercial Services                              US$ 0.005 rnillion
-PID Costs                                       US$ 0.253 mnillion
Federal Transport PID Expenditure
Road and bridge rehabilitation/reconstruction    US$ 26.071 million
Goods (Consultants' Laboratory Equipment)        US$ 0.383 million
Consultants' services for roads and bridges      US$  1.675 million
Mine Clearance                                   US$ 0.121 million
PID Costs                                        US$ 0.735 million
6.3    From the above figures, it can be seen that the most significant expenditure has been within the road
and bridge rehabilitation/reconstruction program, together with the associated consultants' design and
supervision costs. Therefore we have taken this opportunity to further study these costs to evaluate the final
costs of the works and to compare them with the original estimated costs, the designers' revised estimated
costs and how the costs have altered during the period of the project. In total 43 contracts were undertaken
within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These included 1 Bridge demolition (Capljina), 1 Rock
Stabilisation (at Jasen Bridge), 1 Bypass (temporary around Komar Bridge) with the remainder either road or
bridge rehabilitation/reconstruction contracts. The State PID had eight (8) contracts, dealing with the
reconstruction of the bridge Orasje with inclusion of the contracts with consultants.
6.4    Within the ETRP, there were 13 bridge and 1 tunnel rehabilitation/reconstruction works. The bid
values and final contract costs for these structures were generally higher than the original estimated budgets.
Comparisons of the final costs with the original estimates range from 70% up to as high as 276%, with the
average cost 124% of the original estimates. In the earlier part of the program, designer's revised estimates
were unavailable. However revised estimates were available for the last four bridges reconstructed and this
included the bridge generating the 276% figure quoted above. When comparing final costs with the revised
estimates, the range is from 84% up to 143%, with the average cost 114% of the revised estimates. For the
- 22 -



bridge reconstruction works, the final contract cost was often higher than the bid value because once the
reconstruction was underway, additional work became necessary to complete the repairs.
6.5    Looking at the twenty-six road rehabilitation costs produces different results. In general terms, the
road rehabilitation bid values were always less than the original estimates, with the exception of two schemes
which were 104% and 110% of the estimated figures. The comparison ranges from 57% to 110%, with the
average cost 87% of the original estimated figures. Also in general terms, final contract prices were the same
as the bid values allowing for currency exchange rate fluctuations between the Dollar and the Deutsche
Mark.
6.6    As stated in paragraphs 4.16 and 4.17 the contractors have become much more competitive and this
can be seen in three of the last four contracts. Comparisons of the bid values with the original estimates range
from 57% up to 68%, with the average cost 63% of the original estimates. However additional works have
been undertaken on these schemes, using Variation Orders, in order to use more of the budget and the final
costs compared with the original estimates range from 75% to 91%, with the average cost 83% of the original
estimates. This downward trend is much more noticeable within the Second ETRP which is now in progress.
(h) Cofinanciers:
1.    In cooperation with the local counterparts, the World Bank and the EBRD jointly defined the scope
of the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina. While focusing on the
immediate reconstruction needs in the sector, the project definition also took into account the difference in
the lending maturity and price of the two IFIs. Thus, it could provide the best funding structure for the local
clients. The joint project definition also enabled the two IFIs more efficiently to mobilise donor grant
investment funds for the particular project components.
2.     Taking into account local capacity and the EBRD limitations in financing external consultants for
project management purposes, the two IFIs decided to jointly use external consultants, funded from
Japanese grant provided to the World Bank, in the Entity PIUs for roads and bridges reconstruction. It
resulted both in efficient use of grant funds for consultancy services and in providing excellent assistance to
local counterparts without overburdening them with too many consultants promoting the implementation of
the different project components under their responsibility. The joint project definition and use of PIU
consultants also helped the two IFIs to respond quickly to requests from local counterparts to swap project
components between the World Bank and the EBRD managed projects with a view to a speedier
implementation of the overall ETRP.
3.    To sum-up, the World Bank and EBRD cooperation on the ETRP has resulted in:
quality definition of the emergency reconstruction needs in the transport sector of Bosnia and
Herzegovina;
*     good funding structure for local clients to finance such reconstruction;
efficient mobilization of donor TC and investment funds;
*     excellent support to the PIU;
enhanced efficiency in determining and flexibly adapting the overall project implementation
schedule.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
I .    The International Community has prepared and fully supported an Emergency Transport
Reconstruction Program (ETRP) for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Program covers reconstruction in
- 23 -



different sub-sectors, such as roads and road bridges, railway, civil aviation, urban transport, river and
seaports. Financing is provided for civil works, material and equipment supply, technical assistance and
training to govermment. The implementation of the reconstruction projects has started in 1996 in the
framework of the First Emergency Transport Reconstruction Program (ETRP) followed by a Second
ETRP, still under execution.
Today, three years later, it can be said that the First ETRP absolutely fulfilled its goal: urgent rehabilitation
of the infrastructure and re-establishing of the traffic on the main routes inside the country.
*   Road Rehabilitation Program gave the results already in 1997. Many bridges, which caused
bottlenecks in traffic, were reconstructed while most important sections on the North - South routes
were repaired.
* Railway Reconstruction Program ensured necessary minimum conditions required for establishing of
railway traffic.
* Reconstruction Program for Civil Aviation helped in opening and functioning of three airports:
Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar.
*   Significant numbers of buses, vehicles and civil work machines were procured also through this
Program.
As a conclusion it can be said that First ETRP was efficient and, despite many arisen problems, fast
implemented program, which absolutelyjustified its existence.
2.    IMG has collaborated with the World Bank in various questions related to the transport sector in
Bosnia-Herzegovina. For the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project this cooperation has been a
close and fruitful one during the whole project life, from identification through implementation. Among the
many financiers of the program, the World Bank has had one of the fastest and most efficient
implementations which was built on and made possible by close contact to all the relevant agencies
involved.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome J Impact Indicators:
Reconstruct and repair priority links and  Achieved                      Achieved
restore essential services in the transport
sector
Output Indicators:
Overlay and rehabilitation on 750 kms of the n.a.                         Road sections rehabilitation has been caried
main road network                                                        out on about 900 kms of the main network
Reconstruction of about 21 bridges and  n.a.                              30 bridges have been reconstructed, as well
reconstruction of the Broko rail and the                                  as the Brcko rail and Orasie bridges
Orasje bridges
Construction/maintenance and        n.a.                                 About US$8 million of equipment has been
sphalt/quarries equipment for a total value of                            provided
US$19 million
Reopen and upgrade gradually the main    n.a.                            The main part of the railway network has
railway network in the Federation                                         been rehabilitated and is reopened
Reopen gradually Sarajevo Airport to civilian  n.a.                       10 civilian canrers have now scheduled
flights                                                                   flights at the Airport
Procure about 100 buses to urban transport n.a.                           About 200 new and second-hand buses have
companies in the main dties                                               been delivered
Project sites mine dearing          n.a.                                  Project sites mine dearing has been carried
out in a timely fashion
Provide for about 700 mm for technical  n.a.                             About 600 mm of technical assistance have
assistance and supply of equipment to                                     been provided as well as office equipment
institutions                                                              and assistance in rebuilding offices
Prepare the Gorazde road preliminary  n.a.                                Preliminary design completed
studies and design
'End of project
- 25-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million uivalent)
CIVL WORKS
Road/bridge Rehabilitation                           24.80            26.07         105.1
Rehabilitation of the Orasje-Zupanja Bridge           4.00             3.78          94.5
GOODS
Asphalt and Quarry Equipment                           1.00           0.00              0
Engineering Equipment                                 0.50             0.38            76
Rehabilitation of Locomotives                         0.00             1.06
SERVICES
Technical Assistance                                  2.50             1.87          74.8
Mine Clearing                                          1.80            0.12           6.7
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                           0.40             0.99         247.5
Total Baseline Cost                                  35.00            34.27
Total Project Costs              35.00           34.27
Total Financing Required               35.00           34.27
Proiect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1.Works                    4.022.10                  2.70         49.10        77.90
_              (4.00)      ~~~~~~~~(22.10)  (2.70)    (0.00)       (28.80)
2. Goods                    0.00          0.00         1.50        53.40        54.90
(0.00)      (0.00)                                  (1.50)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         4.70        11.50        16.20
(0.00)      (0.00)       (4.70)       (0.00)       (4.70)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00          0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     4.00         22.10        8.90        114.00       149.00
(4.00)      (22.10)       (8.90)       (0.00)       (35.00)
Notes:
1: Numbers in brackets indicate level of Bank financing. All amounts are net of taxes.
2: Includes: (i) Civil Works: US$2.7 million by Direct Contracting; (ii) Goods: US$1.5 million by
International Shopping; and (iii) Services: US$0.77 million by Direct Contracting, US$2.71 million by
- 26 -



Short-List, and US$1.8 million by Limited International Bidding
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                       3.91          23.11          3.43          60.20         90.65
(3.91)        (23.11)       (3.43)         (0.00)        (30.45)
2. Goods                       0.00           0.00          1.45          41.00          42.45
((0.00)         .00)        (1.45          (0.00)        (1.45)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          2.37          12.80          15.17
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.37)         (0.00)        (2.37)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0(0.)        (0.00         (0.00)         0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.00) (0.00)                             (0.00)
Total                        3.91          23.11         7.25          114.00        148.27
(3.91)        (23.11)       (7.25)         (0.00)        (34.27)
Notes:
1: Numbers in brackets indicate level of Bank financing. All amounts are net of taxes
2: Includes: (i) Civil Works: US$3.4 million by Direct Contracting; (ii) Goods: US$1.4 million by Direct
Contracting; and (iii) Services: US$1.3 million by Single Source Contracting, US$1 million for incremental
costs and US$0.1 million by Least Cost Contracting.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank     Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
A. Roads and Bridges    29.80               24.40    30.50               45.10    102.3   0.0   184.8
B. Railways                                 2.90      1.00                19.00    0.0    0.0   655.2
C. Sarajevo Airport                         13.00                        17.00    0.0    0.0   130.8
D. Urban Transport                          12.10                        18.00    0.0    0.0   148.8
E. Technical Assistance  3.40               4.50      3.40                11.50   100.0   0.0   255.6
F. Gorazde Road                             0.30                          0.30     0.0    0.0   100.0
G. Mine Clearing         1.80                         0.10                0.50     5.6    0.0    0.0
H. Bitumen                                  0.40                          2.60     0.0    0.0   650.0
Total Financing Available   35.00           57.60     35.00              114.00   100.0   0.0   197.9
Total Requirement       35.00              114.00    35.00               114.00   100.0   0.0   100.0
Notes:
1. The project was presented to the Board with a financing gap of US$59.4 million. In the course of
project implementation, the gap has been progressively closed. The gap was closed in mid 1998.
2. The total project financing requirement as shown in the table is US$149 million, and not US$152 million
as shown in the project documents. The above table excludes a fuel supply component estimated at US$3
million for which in-kind donation was expected but never materialized in the specific framework of this
project.
- 27 -



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
See paragraph 3, Section 4
-28-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                                               .
Stage of ProjecEtCycle           - No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Ratin
(es 2 Economists, 1 FMS etc.)     Implementation      DeveIop ent
Mon/ilYear    Count       Speei                           Progess           Objective
Identification/Preparation
1/96                    3   Engineer                            S                 S
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/96                    3   Engineer                             S                 S
I   Lawyer                              S                 S
I   Disbursement Officer                S                 S
I   Procurement Specialist              S                 S
Supervision
3/96 to 6/99            I   Economist                            S                 S
I   Engineer                            S                 S
I   Procurement Specialist              S                 S
ICR
6/99 to 11/99           1   Economist                            S                 S
I   Engineer                            S                 S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Esimat
I _______________                  No. Staff weeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation              14.6                          52
Appraisal/Negotiation                   34.1                        91.4
Supervision                             94.5                       388.9
ICR                                        6                          18
Total                                  149.2                       550.3
Note: Figures for the Supervision and ICR categories are estimates, as figures for activities during FY2000
are not all available so far and activities under the ICR category are not completed to date.
-29-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
F Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
iSectorPolicies                           OH  O SU * M  O N  O NA
F Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Institutional Development               O H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                OH  OSU*M  ON  O NA
FS Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Other (Please specify)
P private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management                0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 30-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performace                                Rating
F Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
I Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                          OHS   S s  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformace                             Rating
X Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  O HU
F Government implementation performance            O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                OHS O S  0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* "Technical Annex, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project",
Report N. T-6807-BIH, dated March 13, 1996;
* Trust Fund Credit Agreement for the Emergency Transport and Reconstruction Project (TF024033),
dated April 1, 1996;
* Italian Grant Agreement for the Cofinancing of the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
(TF02408 1),
dated May 6, 1997;
* "Bosnia and Herzegovina: Priorities for Recovery and Growth", prepared by the Central Europe
Department of the
World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the Active Cooperation
of the
IMG, December 1995;
* "Bosnia and Herzegovina, The Priority Reconstruction Program: 1996 Achievements and 1997
Objectives",
prepared by the European Commission and Central Europe Department of the World Bank, March
1997;
* "Bosnia and Herzegovina: 1996-1998 Lessons and Accomplishments, Review of the Priority
Reconstruction
Program and Looking ahead towards Sustainable Economic Development", prepared for the May 1999
Donors
Conference, co-hosted by the European Commission and the World Bank;
"Update on the Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina", periodic reports prepared by the World
Bank;
* Monthly Progress Reports prepared by the Federation Transport Project Implementation Directorate;
- Periodic Progress Reports and Task Force Meeting Minutes prepared by the IMG;
* IMG donor database; and
* World Bank Preparation and Supervision Missions Aide-Memoires
- 32 -



Annex 8. Contribution of main cofinanciers to the Project
Cofinanciers                         Estimated Contribution (US$)  Main areas of activities
Austria                                         1.5              Sarajevo Airport rehabilitation
Czech Republic                                  1.7              Supply of trams
European Bank for Reconstruction and            32.7             Road/bridge and Sarajevo Airport
Development                                                      rehabilitation and technical
assistance
European Commission                             31.6             Road/railways and Sarajevo Airport
rehabilitation
Supply of road
construction/maintenance equipment
and buses, as well as technical
assistance
France                                          3.6              Railway rehabilitation and supply of
navigational aids
Germany                                         4.7              Railway rehabilitation
Italy                                           4.2              Road/tunnel and Sarajevo Airport
rehabilitation
Japan                                           11.4             Supply of road
construction/maintenance equipment
and buses and technical assistance
Malaysia                                        1.5              Road rehabilitation
Netherlands                                      1.4             Sarajevo Airport rehabilitation and
technical assistance
Other donors                                    1.8              Miscellaneous
Saudi Arabia                                    2.3              Railway rehabilitation
United Nations                                  3.4              Road/railway rehabilitation
United States                                   12.2             Road/bridge/railway rehabilitation
and technical assistance
World Bank                                      35.0             Road/bridge rehabilitation and
technical assistance
TOTAL                                          149.0
Note: a significant amount of additional activities has been carried out in the transport sector since mid-1997.
These activities are accounted for under the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project.
-33-



MAP SECTION



14' -                   -  -U         Tazawt ..                                  TB f I                       T - -   -   I
16                                            TSf0 Zo"o           .                       8,.-v - -                                               nW..@
-                 I'oZesoreb        ~~~~~~~~~~~C  R  0   A T  I A           Tajakoc                 4    DOnu~
V Ta Osret Osij:
Troono                                           -
osamAa i                           asa.sk.-t Os                 ,o -' ,
~~~~~~  ~  ~       SpBos
'I i                                                                                                                                      'G n jt>t   
ovNovi GrC ;X \a$       SH7tiiC assTut-- aGd
-;'1   $                                          >4~                  -     -        i6             IKi                                        iw
N ~ ~~~~~ 0Coz,  -"-                ,,---                             ,        Sjj   \2           jn E t                      b      .    :EzXX-
4a  ,
43 '-                             ;            B      -PI PKelavar                      ;Bir lelAjinc                                     <
-aeski Mt                                                    Db 0         anckpiA  X                     Bileln  4
,      , ~~-,-        .-                                             .,           Ka .,__'r 9n          i se                     
'J. ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ,  .           -s                             s/f   e      ;_ iD              ;  
?  ; \ , >> 79 Kter Mars  TeeIIST5--
p.tN,ac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c~hzc
CROATIA                      'Drilr    )RBbNIA   AND  H                                                      =tI 5'..v.Q
Jezerao  '\ae                                               eo                acvc
Sipava     Tarbe~~~&.Tr   Zeni
ViJce'  ars             Voe-    <       Vasenc
N                         D~~~~~~~6nii VaIk}    aiKcK,adas
K                                                      Koo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.nico  f 'ok 4
STTU  OF. PRINCceA ACIITE ON THtAISODaEWRKAkIRSAG                                                                                 l-- oc           t         E=ts
N                                         K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aisella                                        T. - (50
-)   -     -'                           - ~~~~~~~~~~Gornli VakC              '~P           ~v                                        Tegod
CMTaE CO PRE   .oVrE                                                                       Kreseea0 CaFte  NOPtE   MAI DOOSTa- 0'  CEH    PLN
T~~~~  HGWYz, GEMN -R-<SFRp _,,
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n e.c!l .                                                                             IuIA   tRUt _ MI  OD   iSIZ>    ASRA    UGR     ODV
N                  I  ~~~~~~~~~oa &                                               RIO     '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    Pale~~~~~~~ Rogaticc4   Viezad>      ie
Sibant                                               Tailaga MAtAYSIA                                                 Goad. S
X~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~''" 4p A=l US(POASA1A,l                                         -5   47   >;lEFfo,~  
labla.i lr                                                  E   -
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'V.'  1'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,01,11
r7Ti                       a KnP  > u a   by "'  Cit Ie s 9m Unbsrele'- /f The   World  Bank.   >   i   -   t _ rie
F, IGako  \FEDERALI. REPRUB I C3
Plce                                                         OF YUGOSIAVIA
~          Bilec                 (SEORIAMONT)-
-Trebinel
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                                      T
EMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT 
STATUS OF PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES ON THE MAIN ROAD NETWORK AT 1CR STAGE                                                                              0
TUNNELS          BRIDGES        ROAD SECTIONS
COMEetED COMEToEPs d oeise OD STPLTED  NOCTe ED  TED  MAIN DONORS                                                LOX    1H ,  .f-            20' PO               30
W                       """-'          3sent O hkgts  soF<D erXr rEBRID  -  DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                                        UK REIN
A       A l                                                    HIGHWAY                           1rl                                              K
MAIN ROADS                             '7'OLDOVA-.
0                      "'a'      ~~~~~~~~~~ITALY ITHROUGNi   REGIONAL ROADS         42          17      ,ATRA
WORLD BANK)                                                                     HUNGARY    ROANI
MALAYSIA              0    -SELECTED CITIES                                   au,-RMNA -
---- US                         NATIONAL CAPrPAR 
*                   ~~~~~~WORLD BANK ---  - -   INTERNATlONAL BOUNDARIES                 ITL                          EUARA/         -
0--   25           50          75 KILOMEEfRS    TIh eactsre b- eders,.- deneaineci- -ec ery.14er r teeaie sIess 40  -
16'IW scpcce et    plsi -heeepcc                            t s %.                m'BTkG.   N,.~
.p-           --                                        to'     ('-d-i7-' J         &               



