Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. T-6370-JO
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
November 18, 1994
-



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of May, 1994)
Currency Unit  - Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$ 1.00 - JD 0.67
JD 1.00 - US$ 1.50
MEASURES EOUIVALENTS
1 cubic meter (cm)- 35.310 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) - 10 dunums
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACC         Agricultural Credit Corporation
ASAL        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASTAP       Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program
ASTSUP      Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project
BPU         Basin Protection Unit
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
CBJ         Central Bank of Jordan
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme
DOEI        Department of Agricultural Extension and Information
EC          European Community
EMI         Export Management Agency
FFV         Fresh Fruit and Vegetables
FOA         Faculty of Agriculture
GOJ         Government of Jordan
GTZ         Deutsche Gesellscha'ft fCir Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
(German Agency for Technical Cooperation)
ICARDA      International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
ISNAR       International Service for National Agricultural Research
IPh         Integrated Pest Management
JCO         Jordan Cooperative Organization
JD          Jordanian Dinar
JVA         Jordan Valley Authority (formerly JVC)
JVC         Jordan Valley Commission (later JVA)
JVFA        Jordan Valley Farmers' Association
KAC         King Abdullah Canal (formerly East Ghor Main Canal)
RfW         [reditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Credit Agency for
Reconstruction)
KTR         King Talal Reservoir
MCm         million cubic meter
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MI          Ministry of Water and Irrigation
NCARTT      National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
RASC        Regional Agricultural Service Center
TOR         Terms of Reference
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VAJ         Water Authority of Jordan
GOVERNMENT OF THE HASHEMrTE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
auSCAL D   r
January 1 - December 31



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
This MOP and Technical Annex in based on the findings of an appraisal mission in April 1994. The
mission was composed of Tijan M. Sallah (Mission Leader, sconomist), Dirk van der Bluijs (senior
Agriculturist), and Nejdet Al-Salihi (Senior Irrigation Engineer). In the preappraisal mission of
December 1993, the following also participated: Lynn Engstrand (Agribusiness Specialist), Orlando
Sacay (Senior Financial Analyst), Willem Zijp (Senior Extension Specialist), Tjaart Schillhorn van
Veen (Senior Livestock Specialist), John Fraser Stewart (Consultant, Bnvironment Specialist), and
Bjorn Larsen (Consultant, Economist)  Mr. Srish Kumar provided assistance with the cost tables, and
Ms. Rose Rehman with the typing, while the internal consistency and conformity of the document with
Bank' e operational policy was checked by Mr. Sant Khorana. Poer reviewers for the project are Messrs.
Anders Bjorgung (NN2CO) and Usaid I. El-Hanbali (EA2AG). This report was prepared under the overall
supervision of Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-lweala, Chief (MN2AG) up to September 30, 1994 and now Mr. Salah
Darghouth, Chief (M2AG), and approved by Mr. Ram K. Chopra, Director (KN2), and Mr. Caio Koch-Meaer,
Vice President (HNA).






THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
CONTENTS
I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
A.  The Sectoral and Economic Contexts . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 1
B.  Main Constraints Affecting Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
C.  Sector Institutions and Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                2
Ministry of Water and Irrigation   . . . . . . . . . . . . .               2
Ministry of Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               3
Research   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Extension   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  4
Donors    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  5
II. THE SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR AGRICULTURE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5
A.  The Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program (ASTAP)                    5
B.  The Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP)                      6
Rationale for Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               6
Lessons from Previous Bank Projects  . . . . . . . . . . . .               7
III.   PROJECT    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  7
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . .                 7
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 7
Water Measurement and Management in the Jordan Valley  . . .
Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control, and
Support for WAJ  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               9
Research    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  10
Extension   .    .   .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  11
Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
C. Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12
Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              13
IV.  PROJECT: ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . ..13
A. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
B. Procurement ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
C. Disbursement  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    16
Special Account  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    16
D. Accounts and Audits ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    16
E. Supervision ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
F. Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17



V.   BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
A. Benefits .                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
B. Risks .                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   '.8
APPENDICES
1. Key Project Activities and Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
2. (1) Summary Table - Technical Assistance .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
(2) Summary Table of Proposed Training .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
3. NCARTT Research Management Specialist - Terms of Reference   . . .        22
4. Agricultural Research Cost Estimates .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
5. Procurement Arrangements .             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
6. Implementation Schedule
1. Contract Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
2. Other .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
7. Mid-Term Review - Terms of Reference .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
S. ASAL Monitoring ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
9. Project Cost Tables .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
10. Revised Detailed Cost Table 2: Groundwater Basin Monitoring and
Control Under KFW Cofinancing .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
11. The ASTAP Program ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    45
12. Linkages between ASAL and ASTAP/ASTSUP .          . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
13. List of Documents and Data in Project File .          . . . . . . . . . . .   54



I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. The Sectoral and Economic Contexts
1.1    The agriculture sector in Jordan is small in relation to the overall
economy, but it is relatively important in the production of tradable goods.
Agriculture contributes about 7% to Jordan's GDP, employs 101 of the
workforce, and accounts for 15% of total exports. Upstream and downstream
linkages between agriculture and the overall economy are strong; a 1993 USAID
study notes that, on a broad definition of agriculture, 28% of GDP is
dependent on the sector (including inputs and producer services and downstream
marketing and processing). Also, on this broad definition, agriculture
accounted for more than half of the growth of GDP in recent years.
1.2    Of Jordan's overall area of 9 million ha, only about 0.5 million ha
are cultivable. Most of this cultivable land is in the Highlands. Rainfed
agriculture occupies some 450,000 ha, and irrigated agriculture covers about
30,000 ha in the Jordan Valley (and Southern Ghors) and 35,000 ha in the
Highlands. There are about 90,000 farms in Jordan and some 100,000 farmers
and livestock producers. An estimated 20,000 of the farmers are engaged in
irrigated crop production, 33,000 farmers in rainfed crop production, 26,000
in rainfed mixed farming and 20,000 in livestock production.
B. The Main Constraints Affecting Arriculture
1.3    Major constraints to the development of sustainable agriculture in
Jordan are: water scarcity, weak producer services and vulnerable markets.
In addition, the policy environment has hitherto not been conducive to
efficiency. Water resources are severely limited, and declining both in
quantity and quality. The country is largely arid or semi-arid, with some 96
percent of the land receiving less than 300 mm of precipitation per year.
Hence, irrigation is important. Agriculture accounts for almost three-
quarters of total water consumption. Investments in irrigation in the 1970s
and 1980s allowed intensification and increases in agricultural output. This
expansion was accompanied by shifts in cropping patterns to higher value crops
that further increased incomes. However, no additional sources of surface
water exist that can be economically harnessed, and pumping of groundwater
exceeds renewable levels. Because water demand for municipal and industrial
use outstrips supply and is rising fast, major changes in water use are
required, together with better planning and management of this scarce
resource.
1.4    Agricultural productivity, in terms of returns to both water and
labor, is relatively high but can be improved. There is scope for further
improvement in irrigation efficiencies in the Jordan Valley, which has
irrigation efficiencies of only 42% in the northern section now and cropping
intensities of only 100-120%. Achieving higher productivity would require
improving farmers' technology. This could be achieved by farmer education and
training and by improving the focus and delivery of research, extension and
other producer services. A particular need is to make such services more
demand-driven and farmer-focussed.



-2-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1.5    Markets for Jordanian agricultural produce are also a problem.
Exports have historically been dependent on the politically vulnerable
regional market. Past growth in horticultural exports was in the Gulf
markets. Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the UAE, Qatar and Bahrain together took about
88 percent (500,000 tons) of total exports of fresh fruits and vegetables in
1990. The remaining volume was divided between other Arab states which took
about 11 percent (62,000 tons) and Europe which took about one percent (6,000
tons). Because of the Gulf War, markets in the Gulf have shrunk and export
prospects have eroded. Presently, export capability lags behind production
capability. The local market, although growing fast, is relatively small and
cannot absorb all surplus production. As a result, there have been reductions
in farmers' incomes.
1.6    There is recognition of the need to diversify out of the volatile Gulf
markets into the relatively more stable, fast growing markets of West Europe.
These markets, however, are more demanding in their quality requirements.
These considerations call for substantial improvements in produce quality in
Jordan, in terms of better standards of production, post-harvest handling and
packaging. To serve the European market, Jordan would also need improvement
in market information and logistics to monitor the demands of off-season,
niche markets in Europe and to respond to them in time. Based on a 1991
study, there are at least 12 crops where Jordan has a definite commercial
potential; i.e., strawberry, grape, asparagus, melon, green bean, eggplant,
tomatoes, pepper, peach, nectarine, cherry and raspberry. The same study
recommended off-season exports through niche market windows targeted at four
principal European markets (Germany, France, the United Kingdom and
Switzerland).
1.7    The problems faced by Jordanian agriculture are not just technical and
institutional, but also structural. Current government policy protects the
sector but also inhibits change and has permitted an inefficient use of land
and water resources. Effectively, the prospects for the sector depend on its
ability to adapt to use of water with increasing efficiency, to produce for
new markets, and to switch to new, higher value products. There is
substantial scope for improvements in productivity and profitability within
existing resource limitations, but exceptional measures are needed to bring
about the required structural changes in Jordanian agriculture. For these
reasons, the Government is embarking on an adjustment program in the sector to
effect the transition to a more sustainable and efficient use of diminishing
resources. Government's program covers improvements in the management of
water and land resources, market liberalization and institutional development.
C. Sector Institutions and Issues
1.8    A number of institutions are involved in water development and
management, and in providing producer services. These institutions, varying in
scale and complexity, are described in the following paragraphs.



-3-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1.9    Ministry of Water and Irrigation.  The Ministry of Water and
Irrigation (MWI) has overall responsibility for water planning and management
countrywide. Until 1992, MWI was little more than an umbrella for its two
operating arms, the Jordan Valley Authority (JVA) and the Water Authority of
Jordan (WAJ). JVA is responsible for all irrigation development and
management, and WAJ has responsibility for national municipal water supply
(including in the Jordan Valley). The roles and responsibilities of JVA and
WAJ overlap, resulting in duplication of effort, lack of coordination and
consequent wastage of water resources. Because of this unsatisfactory
situation, MWI brought about some needed changes in 1993. It established a
new unit in the Ministry itself, under a Secretary General, at a level equal
to that of JVA and WAJ. The new unit is responsible for all water resource
planning, policy and strategy formulation, human resource development, and
data collection and analysis. JVA and WAJ are now the operational arms of the
MWI, responsible for project and program implementation. Most recently, Basin
Protection Units (BPUs) were established within WAJ to oversee groundwater
monitoring and control. These are mobile technical units which have initially
inventoried groundwater wells, and which will be responsible under the ASAL
supported adjustment program for implementing the groundwater basin management
programs.
1.10   Ministry of Agriculture.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is
responsible for agricultural policy and development. MOA coordinates its
program through 15 headquarters departments, each under a department director,
and through 19 regional directorates, each headed by a regional director. The
regional directors and the department directors at headquarters report to the
Secretary General of MOA.   The Director of the National Center for
Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT) also reports to the
Secretary General. NCARTT is a specialized agency of the MOA. The key issues
for MOA are to adapt structure and staffing to the new more limited mandate
defined in the sector policy; to implement privatization, commercialization
and other forms of decentralization; and to make public services more
productive and better managed.
1.11   Research.  Most public sector research is carried out by NCARTT; the
Faculties of Agriculture (FOA) of the University of Jordan and some other
universities also conduct some research. Some adaptive research is undertaken
by private input supply companies on themes related to intensified input use.
There is scope for public research on themes that commercial research will not
deal with, and NCARTT has, in principle, the mandate and the capacity to
conduct this research. The institution, created in 1985, as a specialized
agency of the MOA, has its headquarters and impressive, large-scale physical
facilities (built with USAID's assistance) in Baqa, near Amman. NCARTT
operates six Regional Agricultural Service Centers (RASCs, four of which were
also established with USAID funding), covering the main agro-ecological zones
of the country. NCARTT's staff (230 personnel) is small in relation to its
generous physical facilities, but fairly large in relation to the size of the
agriculture sector. NCARTT has a number of highly qualified staff (11 PhD, 31



-4-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
MSc); however, the FOA of the University of Jordan, which offers better pay
and incentives, has more highly qualified staff (63 PhD).
1.12   Although NCARTT is charged with the mandate for coordinating and
carrying out research and technology transfer at the national level, its
research function is quite limited and not very practical. Communications
with extension staff and farmers are scant, and farmers, particularly the
farmers and livestock producers in the rainfed highlands, are receiving little
benefit. A national strategy for agricultural research, including action on
the institutional status of NCARTT, has been developed with ISNAR/ICARDA
assistance. The essence of the new research strategy is to improve research
planning, budgeting and program design; reactivate the six RASCs; and improve
research extension linkages. Working groups on the strategy have produced a
draft. Meanwhile, NCARTT has started to move away from its commodity-based
research programs and has reorganized work along thematic lines such as
rainfed agriculture, irrigated agriculture, range management and water
management.
1.13   Extension.  The history of extension in the MOA dates back to 1954,
fifteen years after the establishment of the Ministry itself. Over the years,
the extension service has had widely varying mandates, from rural reform to
home economics, and from rural literacy to technology transfer. Between 1986
and 1992, extension was part of NCARTT's mandate, but the responsibility
returned to MOA in 1992, to its newly created Department of Extension and
Information (DORI). DOlI has 96 staff in the field (with 63 reported field
vacancies unlikely to be filled soon) and 16 staff at headquarters in Amman
(which also has 16 vacancies). Of the field staff, nine are female; at
headquarters, six are female. The formal education of extension field staff
is relatively high: more than 90 percent have at least a bachelor's degree.
However, their knowledge is mostly theoretical and has not kept abreast of
recent developments, particularly in such fields as horticulture and
integrated pest management (IPM) where changes are rapid. Moreover, many do
not have farm experience, nor do they have much training in extension methods.
1.14   The private sector is quite active and successful in extension, and is
clearly the main engine in the development of irrigated agriculture and
horticulture, although it does not deal adequately with such areas as IPM and
does not reach poorer farmers. Private extension organizations can be divided
into farmer organizations, which provide advisory services to a relatively
better-off clientele; non-governmental organizations, which focus on resource-
poor farmers and usually have environmental and gender-based agendas; and
comercial companies, which cater strictly to those who can afford their
products and services. Over 100 commercial agricultural service companies
operate in Jordan, in areas as wide ranging as input supply, seed supply,
nurseries, plastic house supply, irrigation equipment, agricultural machinery,
test and diagnostic laboratories, veterinary services and on-farm trials and
training.



-5-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1.15   Presently, most farmers get about 50 percent of their information from
other farmers, 25 percent from public extension and about 13 percent from
private extension. There are weekly radio and TV broadcasts of extension
information in cooperation with the MOA but their impact on farmers and
livestock herders is limited.
1.16   Donors.  Major donors active in the agriculture and water sectors of
Jordan are the Deutsche Gesselschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) or
German Agency for Technical Cooperation, Kreditanstalt fifr Wiederaufbau (KfW)
or German Credit Agency for Reconstruction, United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), French Cooperation, Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), and the European Community (EC). German technical
assistance in agriculture is largely concentrated on pest control and seed
multiplication technologies, export promotion assistance, and agricultural
extension. In addition, German support is provided to the water sector
(drinking water, sewage, irrigation, etc) with the objective to improve
operation and maintenance among other things. USAID assistance has been
concentrated on NCARTT and on an Agricultural Marketing Development Project
through the government's Agricultural Marketing Organization (AMO). USAID
also has a large project in support of the water sector. French assistance is
being provided for agricultural research and horticulture production.
Canadian assistance is largely focussed on agricultural technologies (e.g.,
potato seed development, lentil mechanization program, and biotechnology
development program) and on institutional support in the water sector. The
European Community is providing assistance on national soil mapping and land
use, improvement of arid and semi-arid zones, and awassi sheep improvement.
These activities demonstrate that there is a relatively active donor
community. However, donor coordination is weak, and there is scope for
improvement. The proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) by the
World Bank and KfW, and the complementary support program, the Agriculture
Sector Technical Assistance Program (ASTAP), are serving as important
catalysts for donor cooperation in agriculture and water.
II.  THE SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR AGRIC      E
A. The Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Proaram (ASTAP)
2.1    Government's reform program in water and agriculture is to be
supported by the World Bank and KfW with an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL). In order to ensure efficient implementation of the reforms and to help
build public and private sector capacity in services to the agriculture and
water sectors, Government has also requested Bank and donor assistance for a
broad program of technical support, studies and consultancies. A large number
of components were identified and prepared by FAO/CP on behalf of the
Government, and were incorporated in a broad program for donor financing
called the ASTAP. Taken together, ASTAP is expected to provide full support



-6-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
to implementation of the adjustment program. The program framework provides a
synoptic picture of the complete range of assistance to the water and
agriculture sectors, ensuring synergy and avoiding overlap. The framework is
also expected to serve as a tool for donor coordination.
2.2    ASTAP has a specific mandate to focus on farmers and production
systems affected by the adjustment program. It is anticipated that adjustment
will significantly change relative prices for farmers. The more efficient
farmers will take advantage of new market opportunities as trade is
liberalized, but may need support to adopt new production technology. At the
same time, income losses could affect farmers as subsidies are phased out and
barriers to imports are lifted or replaced by tariffs. Not all farmers will
be able to compensate for lost income and the number of farmers drawing very
low incomes from farming could increase. Particular risk categories are: in
the Jordan Valley, the smallest farmers, the renters and the sharecroppers; in
the irrigated Highlands, the sharecroppers; in mixed and livestock farms,
sheep and goat predominant systems, particularly the larger flocks; and cereal
producers in rainfed areas. In addition, the commercial dairy industry is
likely to become less profitable and at least some production units may close.
There is excess egg production capacity for the domestic market and once
subsidies are removed many producers may go out of business unless the export
market can be developed. ASTAP is designed to assist both higher potential
farmers and those farmers most vulnerable during the adjustment period. The
matching of ASAL reforms with ASTAP technical support is a visible sign of
Government's commitment to supporting producers during the transition.
Designed to improve the efficiency of response, ASTAP will help improve
benefits and mitigate adverse effects, and hence contribute to reducing the
political risks of the adjustment program.
2.3    The ASTAP program is summarized in Appendix 11 (page 45).  Appendix 11
also shows how each of the components is financed, or is expected to be
financed. Appendix 12 shows how each of the components is linked to the
adjustment program.
B. The Agriculture Sector Technical Support Proiect (ASTSUP)
2.4    Within ASTAP, Government has requested Bank, GTZ and KfW assistance
for an Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP). ASTSUP has been
prepared and appraised in parallel with ASAL. It would be implemented
alongside ASAL as a free-standing, but closely-linked, project.
2.5    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The ASAL and ASTSUP are parallel,
mutually reinforcing operations, which have been designed in conformity with
the Bank's country assistance strategy in Jordan. The Bank assistance
strategy emphasizes continued stabilization, macroeconomic adjustments and
sectoral reforms over the period through 1997, as well as a steady program of
investments to remove constraints and enable growth. In particular, Bank
involvement in the ASTSUP will ensure that key activities central to the



-7-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
success of the adjustment program are adequately carried out. In addition,
Government has sought Bank assistance to help catalyze maximum grant
cofinancing for ASTAP; Bank financing is expected to facilitate this within
the context of a coherent program of policy adjustment and investment.
2.6    Lessons from Previous Bank Projects.  ASTSUP and ASAL are the first
Bank operations in the agriculture sector for over a decade. In general,
lessons from Jordan on implementation with Bank projects across sectors have
been positive compared with other countries in the MENA region. However,
Bankwide lessons on the performance of TA projects have shown that, in order
to avoid failures: (i) the scale and complexity of TA should be tailored to
match the absorptive capacity of the recipient agencies; (ii) achievement of
simple, more realistic objectives should be firmly built into project design;
and (iii) borrower ownership of design is important for sustainability.
Although there are several agencies that would be involved in the
implementation of ASTSUP, components have been designed so as to accord with
the implementation capacity of these agencies. There is also general
ownership of project components. Nevertheless, intensive start-up and close
supervision at project launching would be necessary.
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.1    The objectives of the project are to assist the Government in the
implementation of agricultural policy adjustments and to improve services to
farmers and livestock producers. The project would provide support for the
implementation of measures to protect and optimize use of surface and ground
water resources. It would also provide technical assistance to build
capacities in agricultural research and extension institutions to improve
services to producers, particularly those who are most vulnerable during
adjustment. Finally, it would develop monitoring and evaluation capacity to
enable the effects of adjustment to be tracked.
B. Proiect DescriRtion
3.2    Project components are: (a) water measurement and management in the
Jordan Valley; (b) groundwater basin monitoring and control; (c) research; (d)
extension; and (e) monitoring and evaluation of the impacts of the adjustment
program.
Water Measurement and Management in the Jordan Valley. and Groundwater Basin
Monitoring and Control
3.3    Jordanian agriculture is faced with the specter of declining water
availability and declining water quality. The situation is expected to worsen



-8-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
as population grows, and municipal and industrial demand for water increases.
Surface water flows to the Jordan Valley, which come mainly from the Yarmouk
River, have declined due to diversions by upstream riparians. Highland
groundwater resources are being depleted by overdrafting, and this is leading
to increased water salinity and pumping costs. A special case is the non-
renewable fossil groundwater of the Disi aquifer, from which about 60 million
cubic meters (mcm) (equivalent to 11 percent of Jordan's annual water supply)
is being abstracted annually for irrigation, largely to produce low value
cereals. Water quality is also a problem. The Zarqa River is contaminated by
pollutants from phosphate mines and from municipal and industrial wastes, and
this polluted water is conveyed to the King Talal Reservoir and used for
irrigation.
3.4    Within this overall water quantity constraint, the management, quality
and conservation of water could be improved. Government's adjustment program
for water, supported under the proposed ASAL, covers development of a national
water policy, restructuring of water sector institutions and a series of
supply and demand management measures designed to bring water resources under
control and conserve the resource. Supply management measures include a halt
to drilling of private wells for irrigation; progressive implementation of a
policy to manage groundwater withdrawal levels by enforcing volumetric
metering of all water production, supply and usage; and the phasing out of the
use of fossil groundwater for low value agriculture. Demand side measures are
to include enhanced rationing and pricing instruments and the development of
local water markets.
3.5    The proposed ASTSUP will provide support for this program through: (i)
Water Measurement and ManaQement in the Jordan Valley, which provides for
rehabilitation of farm turnouts in three areas of the Jordan Valley to permit
water measurement and equitable distribution of irrigation water, and to
improve operation and maintenance (O&M) of the water conveyance system in the
Jordan Valley. In addition, support will be provided for the JVA laboratories
and-for training and technical assistance for water quality monitoring; (ii)
Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control, and SuDport for WAJ, which provides
for groundwater basin monitoring and control in the Highlands by volumetric
measurement of tubewell abstraction, improvement of the groundwater
observation network and support for the recently established Basin Protection
Units. Support will also be provided to WAJ to improve water conveyance
efficiency.
3.6    Water Measurement and Management in the Jordan Valley. (Base Cost
US$5.15 million). This component will improve water measurement and
management of the piped irrigation system in the Jordan Valley. As part of the
adjustment program, Government is strengthening demand management in the
valley, and introducing higher irrigation water charges. Increases in charges
can only be-fair and effective as a demand management tool if delivered water
is correctly measured and billed. Therefore, it is necessary to complete the
ongoing program for installing secure meters and water flow control devices on



-9-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
irrigation turn-outs. The project would, therefore, finance the
rehabilitation of 2,150 improved farm turnouts and installation of about 3,450
water control devices (outlet pressure regulators, flow regulators, flow
meters, gate valves, flow limiters, etc.) and protection boxes for 1,350
outlets in three areas covering 7,500 ha in the Jordan Valley (i.e., Zarqa
Triangle, 18 km Extension and Northeast Ghor). The JVA has already prepared
draft bidding documents for procurement of equipment and installation for farm
turnouts. The JVA will supervise the dismantling of existing farm turnouts
and the installation of new ones, which will have protection boxes, steel
covers, locks and foundation works. To improve the capacity of JVA
laboratories to carry out water and soil testing, laboratory equipment and
vehicles will be provided. The project will also support JVA to improve O&M
efficiency in the Jordan Valley by providing urgently needed O&M equipment
identified by the December 1993 GTZ study.' This component will also include
training for JVA staff, provision of technical assistance to evaluate its
monitoring program, and laboratory equipment requirements, and needed studies.
3.7    Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control. and SuDDort for WAJ. (Base
Cost US$3.06 million). As part of the adjustment program, Government is
adopting a program to move towards sustainable groundwater abstraction
nationwide, and implementing a full management program to meter and control
all groundwater production, supply and usage. This component would,
therefore, support monitoring and control currently being carried out by WAJ
through its ten Basin Protection Units (BPUs). WAJ is responsible for
groundwater control, and the BPUs have been set up specifically to improve
monitoring and control of groundwater abstraction. The project will finance
the purchase and installation of 2,300 flow meters on tubewells not equipped
under the ongoing program; 30 automatic groundwater level recorders and 25
electric water level meters to improve monitoring of groundwater levels; 20
portable conductivity meters and pH meters to improve monitoring of water
quality; 5 global positioning systems to assist in rapid determination of
tubewell coordinates; 15 PC and laptop computers and miscellaneous equipment,
office furniture for the BPUs; and 12 field vehicles. WAJ has furthermore
identified an urgent need for a small number of water tankers to improve water
conveyance efficiencies to high areas of Amman during peak demand periods of
the summer months.  In accordance with the objective of improving efficiency
of water use and delivery, support will be provided under ASTSUP of ten water
tankers. The tankers would be a less costly way of delivering water to high
areas of Amman than the existing piped system. The tankers would facilitate
spatial transfer of water from low to higher value uses, and would service
areas unserved by the small private tanker market. The project will also
provide training for the staff of WAJ in areas such as use of computers,
remote sensing and GIS.   KfW would finance this component under its Sector
1/ "Study for the Recovery of Operation and Maintenance Costs of Irrigation Water In Jordan," Swu _ry
Report, Vol. 1, December 1993, p.10. Gitec Consult GMIN, DusseLdorf, Germny, and Consulting
Engineering Center (GEC), Amman, Jordan.



- 10 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Program Water Supply II, and the complete details of this component are
presented in Appendix 10 (pages 43-44).
Agricultural SuRRort Services
3.8    The Need for Agricultural Services.  In both the Jordan Valley and the
Highlands, intensive agriculture, dominated by horticulture, is practiced,
with substantial differences in technology and managerial levels. In the
Valley, irrigation is provided by a public network, partly from open canals,
and increasingly through pressurized gates which directly feed drip irrigation
systems. There are some subsidies- in particular, Jordan Valley farmers pay a
low water charge. In the Highlands, irrigation is provided mostly through
private wells at much higher cost to the users. In both areas, farmers'
access to agricultural support services depends on their wealth and the scale
of their operations. For example, in the Valley, relatively wealthy farmers
grow vegetables in specialized farms with plastic or green houses, using drip
irrigation. Some are operated by highly qualified technicians who maintain
regular contact with foreign growers and breeders from foreign seed companies.
These farmers may have their own variety trials and regular soil tests.
However, there are also poorer farmers who operate open field systems with
some vegetables and cereals (wheat or barley). These farmers have little
access to technical information, and rely on neighbors for tips on varieties,
fertilizer and pesticide use. There is scope for public agricultural services
to assist this category of farmers in particular and to deal with areas of
common interest, such as IPM and the environment. Similarly in Highlands
systems, there are inten ive commercial farms which can buy technology and
advice, and a larger number of poorer farmers who have little access to such
advice. The latter group includes the small-scale rainfed crop farmers in the
Highlands, the marginal livestock herders and female-headed agricultural
households.
3.9    DeveloRment Priorities and Plans for Agricultural Services.  Public
assistance should be conducted within a coherent agricultural sector policy
and strategy. Under Government's adjustment program, supported by the
proposed ASAL, policy guidelines and the role of the public sector in
agriculture are being defined in an Agriculture Policy Charter. A case has to
be made for public sector involvement, and there has to be clear
identification of the economic and environmental objectives of public service
provision. Government has recently developed a draft agricultural research
strategy, and is working on a program to develop agricultural extension, and a
program to overhaul the mandate, structure and management of MOA. To carry
out these policies and strategies, the proposed ASTSUP would provide limited
and targeted assistance to public agricultural research and extension,
focussing support on areas of potential or of public interest that could not
be served by other means and on particularly farming systems that are
vulnerable during the adjustment period.



- 11 -
TECHNICAL AlNEX
3.10   Research. (Base Cost US$0.79 million).  The adjustment program will
change relative prices, creating both new challenges and new pressures for
farmers. There is a need for a well-focussed public research program to help
Jordanian agriculture to adapt to the new economic realities, especially
bearing in mind farmers in vulnerable farming systems. The research
institution, NCARTT, is a large and well-equipped research organization with
six Regional Agricultural Service Centers. Research activity, however, is
hampered by NCARTT's inadequate management, which, until now, has also
suffered from lack of direction. The proposed ASTSUP would, therefore,
provide catalytic support to NCARTT to enable it to respond to the needs of
crop and livestock producers during adjustment. The project would finance:
(a) the hiring of an experienced internationally-recruited management
specialist to assist NCARTT to implement the new research strategy, guide and
motivate staff towards a stronger farmer focus, strengthen research planning
and budgeting capacity, reactivate the six regional research centers and
strengthen research-extension linkages; assurances were aiven at neaotiations
to ensure that the manaaement sDecialist would be hired by June 30. 1995 (Dara
s.1 (); (b) the implementation by NCARTT of a national workshop (with
international participation) for research, extension staff and MOA decision-
makers to discuss and launch the national research strategy; (c) the
organization by NCARTT of a ten-day course on integrated pest management (IPM)
to be conducted by an experienced internationally-recruited IPM specialist.
The course would be held during the latter part of the first year of the
project and would involve local researchers, extension staff, farmers and
private sector advisory staff as participants; and (d) 50 staff-months of
specialized, post-graduate training for research staff in priority areas such
as irrigation agronomy and dryland farming.
3.11   Extension. (Base Cost US$1.7 million).  The private sector is quite
active and successful in extension. Nonetheless, as with research, there is a
genuine public service role for extension that is not presently being met. In
Jordan, this public role concerns poorer farmers not served by private
information networks, and public goods such as soil conservation, integrated
pest management and water quality. Poorer farmers include those engaged in
rainfed, mixed and livestock farms in the Highlands, and extensive pastoral
systems. The joint working groups which elaborated the agricultural research
strategy (para. 1.12) recommended that the country's public extension service
should, in the future, focus its attention and efforts on those farmers and
livestock producers who would not be served by private advisory services.
3.12   ASTSUP would provide support to public extension interventions within
the framework of a formal extension strategy that is to be developed under the
project. The strategy would clarify the mandate of extension, the task
distribution between the DORI and NCARTT, and the role of the public extension
service.
3.13   This ASTSUP component would be cofinanced by GTZ (base cost US$1.45
million and the Bank (base cost US$250,000), as detailed below.



- 12 -
TECHNICAL AANNEX
3.14   GTZ would finance the majority of the component.  Technical assistance
(1 long term internationally recruited specialist for 36 staff months; 2
locally recruited agricultural economists for 36 staff-months; 17 staff-months
of short-term internationally-recruited TA; 2 vehicles; 2 computers with
software, and 30 staff-months of basic training for extension staff) will be
provided to: (i) assist the Government in formulating a national agricultural
extension policy and strategy, and (ii) to undertake pilot operations in one
or two selected areas, whereby extension methodologies and approaches would be
tested at the community level.
3.15   To complement GTZ's support, the Bank would finance the following:  i)
short-term specialized training (local and overseas courses and study tours)
focussed on building extension capacity in such areas as extension methods,
diagnostic skills, and participatory rapid rural assessment; (ii) training-
related technical assistance, to conduct special courses of general interest,
in-country (12 staff-weeks); (iii) some office and audio-visual equipment; and
(iv) three vehicles.
3.16     Nonitoring and Evaluation.  (Base Cost US$0.66 million) The Ministry
of Agriculture is reinforcing its statistical and monitoring capacity and this
will be supported by a GTZ-financed component under ASTSUP. In order to track
the impact of adjustment on production and incomes, MOA will undertake special
surveys with a baseline survey before major reforms, and subsequent semi-
annual passes. Two complementary sets of surveys will be conducted: i) crop
budget surveys will track the evolution of gross margins for key geographical
areas and farming systems; and (ii) household income surveys will follow a
representative sample of farm households in key geographical areas and farming
systems, with a special focus on vulnerable populations and systems. Case
studies will also provide policy makers with insights into the impacts of
adjustment.
C. Project Cost and Financig
3.17     Cost Estimates.  Total project costs, including physical and price
contingencies, are estimated at JD 8.60 million (US$ 13.31 million
equivalent); the foreign exchange component represents about 88 percent (or
US$11.77 million) of total project costs. Base costs are calculated using
April 1994 prices. The estimated base costs amount to JD7.16 million or
US$11.37 million equivalent.
3.18     Project costs include allowances for both physical and price
contingencies. Physical contingencies, which have been applied largely on
equipment and vehicles, amount to 14 percent of base costs. Price
contingencies amount to 3 percent of base costs based on annual local
inflation rates of 4.5 percent for 1995-1998, and annual foreign inflation
rates of 1.9 percent for 1995, 2.7% for 1996, 3.4% for 1997, and 3.6% for
1998. Equipment and goods imported directly for use by Government ministries



- 13 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
are exempt from taxes and duties. The total cost estimates are summarized in
Schedule A.
3.19      Financing Plan.  The Government of Jordan has requested that maximum
concessional cofinancing be identified to finance technical assistance and
studies; GTZ is providing grants of US$2.20 million to cover the monitoring
and evaluation component and part of the extension component. KfW is
providing a further US$3.08 million equivalent. The financing package,
presented below, was agreed at negotiations. The Bank will provide for a loan
of US$6.60 million.   The financing plan, with a breakdown by financier, is
provided in Schedule A.
IV. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Implementation
4.1    The project would be implemented over a period of four and the half
years and is expected to be completed by June 1999. The project would be
implemented by MOA and MWI and their agencies which have adequate capacities
to carry out components. The implementing agencies will prepare annual plans
and budgets, implement subproject components, account for project expenditures
and present accounts for audit annually, and monitor progress and submit
annual progress reports. Approval of annual work programs and budgets will be
done by the Ministry of Planning. Administration of procurement contracts
will also be carried out by the implementing agencies which have the
experience and the capacity. The Ministry of Agriculture has appointed a
project coordinator from among existing staff, who will oversee the
coordination of project activities, consolidate progress reports and serve as
the point of contact for the Bank, GTZ, KfW and other interested parties.
During negotiations, assurances were given that Government would assign to the
vrolect coordinator responsibilities for coordination of vroiect
implementation (para. 6.1 (a)).
4.2    Specific components will be carried out by the responsible government
agency. For the water measurement and management component, the JVA (an agency
of MWI) will be the implementing agency. WAJ, also an agency of MWI, will
implement the groundwater basin control component. The MOA and its specialized
agencies will implement the agricultural support services component: NCARTT
will implement the research subcomponent; DOEI will implement the extension
component; and the Department of Policy and Planning of MOA will implement the
monitoring component. Each agency will maintain separate project accounts and
progress reports and send them semi-annually to the Project Coordinator for
consolidation. Because of close linkages between this vrolect and the ASAL.
there will be cross-effectiveness conditions between the two operations
(para. 6.2).



-14 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
B. Procurement
4.3     The procurement arrangements for the components to be financed by the
Bank are summarized in Table 4.1. Recurrent and other local costs financed by
the Government and costs financed by GTZ and KfW are shown under N.B.F. (non-
Bank financed) in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million equivalent)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Project           ICB'2)          Other"'           NBFM3'           Total
Elements
Equipment           5.70              0.22               3.27           9.19
(5.09)'X          (0.21)                            (5.30)
Vehicles            0.08                                 0.31           0.39
(0.08)                                              (0.08)
Technical                             0."82"             2.45"'         3.27
Assistance                           (0.82)                            (0.82)
Training                              0.41               0.06           0.47
(0.41)                           (0.41)
TOTAL                5.78             1.45               6.09          13.31(7)
(5.17)           (1.44)                           (6.60)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
2 ICB: International Competitive Bidding.
}/ Non-Bank financed (GTZ, KfW, & Government).
O/ other: International Shopping (I.S.), Local Shopping (L.S.). Consultants and TA services.
5/ Consultants and TA services recruited in accordance with World Bank's "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, (August
1981).
6/ GTZ financed components (Agricultural Extension; Monitoring and lvaluation).
7/ Totals do not add up due to rounding.
4.4    All goods to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (May 1992). Jordanian manufacturers competing for the contracts
for the supply of goods procured under international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the
CIF price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers,
whichever is less, provided the value added to the product in Jordan exceeds
20 percent of the ex-factory bid price.



- 15 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
4.5    Goods and equipment to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would
consist of vehicles, laboratory and water-related equipment, office equipment
and furniture, agricultural tools and communication equipment. As far as
practicable, these would be packaged in such a manner that all packages would
be large enough to attract international competition. Goods and equipment
packages, including vehicles, estimated to cost more than US$100,000
equivalent each, would be procured through ICB, using the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents. International Shopping (IS), with at least three
quotations solicited from three eligible countries, would be used for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 with an aggregate limit of
US$0.3 million. Small value, off-the-shelf, items whose value would not
exceed $50,000 per contract, would be procured through Local Shopping (LS) by
obtaining at least three competitive quotations, with an aggregate limit of
US$0.2 million.
4.6    Contracts for technical assistance, consultants, and training would be
awarded following the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). There
will be a total of about 7 staff-months of assignments ranging from one staff
month to two staff months. There will also be a total of 39 staff-months of
training overseas and 36 staff months of local training.
4.7    The implementing agencies have staff who are conversant with
international commercial procurement practices and the Bank's procurement
procedures. To ensure compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines, all
contracts awarded through ICB, as well as all contracts for technical
assistance and consultants services, would be subject to prior Bank review.
These limits would result in prior review of over 90% of procurement financed
by the Bank. All other contracts would be subject to selective ex-post review
by the Bank. During necaotiations. assurances were obtained that the
Government would undertake Drocurement of cqoods and services in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, and also standard bidding documents
for ICB and consultant services, as well as the format and content of the bid
evaluation reDorts. were acireed with the Borrower (Dara. 6.1 (c)).
4.8    Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower.
(b) Comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the Borrower
indicating:
(i) Revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project, including best estimates of allowances for
physical and price contingencies;
(ii) Revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time
for individual contracts; and



- 16 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
(iii) Compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
C.   Disbursement
4.9    The proposed Bank loan of US$6.60 million would be disbursed over four
and the half years against the categories and disbursement percentages
summarized in Schedule B. Disbursement would be made against full
documentation, except for payment against contracts of less than US$50,000
equivalent, which would be reimbursed against statements of expenditures
(SOEs). Documentation for the SOEs would be kept by the respective
implementing agencies for audit, and for review by Bank supervision missions.
4.10   SRecial Account.  To facilitate project implementation and
disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government has agreed to
establish a Special Account in the Central Bank of Jordan which would be
operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank (IBRD).
The special account will have an authorized allocation of US$500,000 and will
be periodically replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications, which
should be supported by appropriate documentation.
D.   Accounts and Audits
4.11   The project coordinator (para. 4.1) will coordinate and consolidate
the separate project accounts of the MWI (JVA, WAJ), and the MOA (NCARTT,
DOEI, Department of Policy and Planning). The project coordinator would
coordinate preparation of annual consolidated accounts. An independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank would: (a) audit the consolidated project
accounts, as well as the special accounts, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing practices; and (b) complete the audit and submit the report
in a timely manner. The reDort and two coDies of the audited accounts would
be sent to the Bank by the proiect coordinator no later than six months after
the end of the fiscal Year. Assurances on these procedures were given durina
negotiations (para. 6.1 (c)).
E.   SuRervision
4.12   During early implementation, Bank supervision should be intensive to
ensure that project activities get off to a good start. In the first year,
three supervision missions will be planned (20 staff weeks), followed by
supervisions every six months for the remaining three years (7 staff weeks per
supervision mission). The supervision missions will concentrate on: (a)
progress on individual components, targets and schedules with respect to



- 17 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
achieving stated objectives; (b) implementation problems; and (c) impacts. A
Mid-Term Review (MTR) would be carried out by the end of the second year of
the project to assess overall progress on project components, and to address
major issues relating to project design and implementation. Assurances to
this effect were given at negotiations (Para 6.1 (b)).
F. Environmental Impact
4.13   Overall, the anticipated impacts of the project on the environment
would be positive because it would help to reverse the trend of mining of
groundwater resources and to control salinity levels, thereby ensuring
sustainable water availability and use. By encouraging reduction in the use
of pesticides and improving awareness of techniques of integrated pest
management, the project is expected to reduce the incidence of toxins in food
(e.g., fruits, vegetables and meat) and in the environment, and thereby help
to improve public health and the quality of the environment. Overall, the
project is expected to have no adverse effects on the environment, and it is
ranked Environmental Assessment Category "C" in accordance with OD 4.01.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1    The main benefit of the project would be to facilitate the timely
implementation of proposed policy reforms in water and agriculture to bring
about more economical use of water and other agricultural resources. By
improving control and management of water resources, the project would improve
water distribution and use. Those farmers who adjust would be induced to
shift to higher value, water-efficient cropping systems oriented towards
exports. Strategic investments in research and extension would over time raise
farm productivity and incomes, reduce produce loss and improve product quality
and prices. Under the project, poor farmers, who are unlikely to attract
private extension services, would particularly benefit from targeted
agricultural research and extension interventions.
B. Risks
5.2    The major risks of the project would be: (a) resistance by well-owners
to water metering and deliberate damage of water metering devices; and (b)
flight of trained personnel which may undermine institutional investments in
research and extension. On risk (a), JVA and WAJ will conduct user awareness
campaigns through the mass media and will combine tightened enforcement of
regulations with a program to improve service to users. On risk (b), it is
expected that better setting of institutional objectives and improvements in
management should provide more job satisfaction. Specific incentives -
promotion, access to training or better facilities - will also help improve



- 18 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
motivation.   For research, steps are underway to provide NCARTT with the
administrative and financial autonomy to set salary scales and benefits at
levels competitive with those for university staff. Overall, it may be
necessary to require staff to sign a contract to stay for a stipulated minimum
period after training.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1    The following assurances were given by the Government during
negotiations, that it will:
(a) assign to the Project Coordinator the responsibilities for the
coordination of project implementation (para 4.1);
(b) carry out a mid-term review by the end of the second year of
implementation to assess project progress based on agreed terms of
reference (para. 4.12; Appendix 7);
(c) undertake procurement of goods and services in accordance with
Bank Guidelines; maintain project accounts to be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank; and submit to the Bank
yearly audit reports and audited accounts no later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year (paras. 4.3-4.8; 4.10);
(d) internationally recruit an experienced management specialist to
assist NCARTT by June 30, 1995 (para 3.10).
6.2    The ASAL and the ASTSUP are required to become effective
simultaneously.



- 19 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Key Proiect Activities and Indicators
Government Objectives        | Action to be Taken           | Expected Outputs              | Target Date        | Agencies
I. Water Measurement & Manseement  in Jordan VaLley
Improving water           - JVA to prepare bidding        -  Water measurement            December 1996             JVA
measurement and OWM         documents and supervise          control devices
in Jordan Valley            impLementation                   procured and instaLled
of installation of FTAs         at farm turnout
in Jordan ValLey.               with protection
boxes and steel covers
for 2150 FTAs covering
7500 ha in Jordan
Valley
- Provision of urgently       - 0I4 equipment provided               1995                JVA
needed OSW equipment
for JVA
- International T.A. of        -  TA completed                     1995/96              JVA
4 sm to review
monitoring, Laboratory
requirements and need
for dditional studies
- Undertake locaL and          -  Staff trained.                   1995/96              JVA
overseas training
for JVA staff
11.  Groutdwater Monitoring and Basin ControL and Suppo t for WAJ
Improving                    - Support BPU's with            - Provision of volumetric       December 1996            WAJ
grouidwater                    provision of                    measurement for 2,300
monitoring & control           equipment and vehicLes          tubeweLls
-  Improved monitoring of        December 1998            WAJ
groundwater basins
- Support for WAJ with        -  10 water tankers                   1995/96              WAJ
equipment                      provided
- Finance LocaL and            - Staff trained                      1995/96               UAJ
overseas training
for WAJ staff



- 20 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 2
|Governent Objectives        Action to be Taken            Expected Outputs               Target Date         Implementcing
l                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agencies
| AriculturaL Suoport Services
Ill. Research                                                                             _
Strengthening            - Hire internationaL             Management specialist         June 1995         NCARTT/MOA
research ptanning          mgnt. specialist to            hired
and administration         assist NCARTT mgmt.
to be more farmer-         and staff to impLe-          - Research strategy             May 1995          NCARTT/MOA
focussed.                  ment research                  approved/adopted
strategy, improve
budgetting and              - 6 field RASCs                 June 1999         NCARTT/MOA
research pLanning             reactivated
capacity and reacti-
vate the field RASCs
- Conduct national            - Workshop completed            June/July 1995      NCARTT/MOA
workshop (with                and research strategy
international parti-          launched
cipation) for
research, extension
staff and MOA
decision-makers to
launch research
strategy
- Organize 10-day             - IPM seminar/course           July/Dec. 1995      NCARTT
sminar/course on              coupleted
IPM by experienced
internationalLy
recruited IPM
specialist for
local researchers,
extension staff,
farmers and private
sector
IV. Extension
Strengthening ext-       - Provide TA. to deveLop   - Strategy completed              December 1995           DOEI
sion services by          national agriculturaL
focussing on              extension strategy
priority informa-
tion needs and           - Carry out pilot            - Pilot extension               December 1998           DOEI
strengthening              extension activities in      activities completed
DOEI and its field         about 2 sites
offices
- Train and provide          - Training and study tours      June 1998               DOEI
study tours for              completed
extension staff
- Support DOEI and           - Hardware support              June 1996               DOEI
field offices with           provided
eqjipment and
vehicles
V. Monitorino and Evaluation
Strengthening             - Conduct surveys of         - First survey completed       Decefber 1994
Monitoring Capacity         crop and livestock
in MOA                     production and of
household income and       - Second survey completed      June 1995                 MOA
employment
Conduct case studies       - Case studies completed       Deceiber 1996             MOA



- 21 -
APPENDIX 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(1) Summary Table - Technical Assistance
Component                                         Duration    Recruitment
(s/m)           Date
(i) Water Measurement and Management
Hydraulic Engineers (design and
procurement documents)                         2*+2**         1995
(ii) Agricultural Research
1 Research Management Specialist              48**         June 1995
(iii) Agricultural Extension
- Institutional Support to DOEI               3**             1995
Agric. Extension Strategy
Concepts (GTZ-funded)                     36**
Agric. Extension Methods
(GTZ-funded)                              36*
Agric. Economics (GTZ-funded)              36*
* locally recruited
** internationally recruited.
(2) Summary Table of ProRosed Training
Component                                    Duration
ti)   Water Measurement and Management (JVA)    7 s/m local and
7 s/m overseas training
(ii)   Groundwater Basin Monitoring (WAJ)          9 s/m local and
4 s/m overseas training
(iii)   Agricultural Research
Strategy Workshop                        60 participants for 3 days
IPM Course                               150 participants for 10 days
Long-term Specialized Degree Training   50 staff months
(iv)   Agricultural Extension HQ staff DORI        55 s/w of local and    55 s/w of
overseas short-term training



- 22 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 1 of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT (ASTSUP)
NCARTT RESEARCH MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Terms of Reference
Objective: Having faced difficulties in attracting and retaining the
qualified staff it requires to carry out its mandate, NCARTT's
research capability and output has seriously eroded. The
objective of the present assignment is, to assist NCARTT in
implementing its long-term strategy which it prepared with
assistance of ICARDA/ISNAR and USAID.
The task of the expert will be to assist NCARTT Management and
provide guidance to its research staff, in implementing the
strategy and re-organizing work planning and strengthening
budgetting procedures within the Institution.
Specifically, research would have to become demand-driven and
focussed on priority areas and target groups not covered by the
private sector.
Research and extension would work closely together in identifying
target groups, their socio-economic characteristics, and a
holistic approach would be adopted, both in the identification of
research-worthy problems, as also in the formulation and
dissemination of recommendations.
Duties:    The Research Management Specialist will assist the Director of
NCARTT and researchers in implementing the strategy; in providing
guidance, reorienting and motivating staff in the directions
indicated above; in research planning, budgetting and program
design; in reactivating the RASC field station network; and in
strengthening research-extension linkages. Specifically, duties
will be to:
- outline an approach and priority action program for
implementing the national agricultural research strategy;
- assist the Director and research staff, in consultation and
collaboration with extension specialists and the farming
community, in defining a master plan for NCARTT's research
priorities. These should take into account the agreed roles
and responsibilities of other entities, such as the private
sector and Universities, in agricultural research;
- assist the Director in developing efficient management methods
and procedures pertaining to the preparation of annual



- 23 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 2 of 2
research programs, preparation of budgets, reporting of
research programs and results;
develop standard procedures for the preparation and evaluation
of research proposals, and train scientists in presenting
proposals and publishing research results;
- assist the Director in selecting short-term consultants, as
needed, to carry out the agreed action program; and
- assist NCARTT in formulating training programs for its own
staff and in providing training to extension staff.
Qualifications:       The successful candidate would have a PhD or equivalent
degree, and broad (minimum of 10-12 years of) relevant
experience in research and in research management,
preferably in more than one country. He or she should
have proven skills as organizer and facilitator, in
addition to being a good manager. Good command of the
English language, both in its spoken and written forms,
and a good working knowledge of the Arabic language are
prerequisites.
Duty Station:         Amman
Agency:               National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology
Transfer (NCARTT)
Duration:             Four years



- 24 -
APPENDIX 4
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OFJORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Cost Estimates
1. Technical Assistance [para 17(v)]
4 years at $150,000/yr                                         US$600,000
2. Trainina
(i) Research Stratecry WorkshoD [para 17 (vi)]
Duration : 3 days
Unit Cost   Total Cost
Number of Participants:
NCARTT HQ                      24
MOA Staff (incl. DOE)           6
RASC Staff                     12
University                      6
Private Sector                  6
ICARDA/ISNAR/FAO               =
60              50.00    US$9,000.00
Materials (Printed, etc.)                                     sQO.00
Total                                                  10,000.00
(ii) IPM Seminar [para 17 (vii)]
Duration: 10 days
Trainer fees             US$250/day                         2,500.00
Subsistence                         60/day                    600.00
Travel (round trip)                                         2,500.00
Number of Participants                      Unit Cost/day      Total Cost
($/day)
NCART (Hq. + Field)      100
Extension and Others      so
150                50.00          75.000.00
Total                      80,600.00
Contingencies (10%)         B.OOO,OO
Grand Total                88,600.00
(iii) Post Graduate Training
50 staff months at US$2,000/month                         100.000.00
(B s/m in YR 1, 14 s/m each, YR 2-4)
GRAND TOTAL                                        USS798.600.00
US$0.8 million



APPENDIX 5
25 -                            Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT (ASTSUP)
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS MILLION)
Project Components                  ICB       Other"3'   N.B.F. '2|  Total
A. Water Measurement and Management
Jordan Valley Authority (JVA)
(a) Equipment (Farm turnouts)               2.11        0.15                   2.26
(1.88)      (0.14)                 (2.02)
(b) Vehicles & Maintenance Equipment        2.91                               2.91
(2.61)                             (2.61)
(c) Laboratory Equipment & Vehicles         0.68                               0.68
(0.60)                             (0.60)
(d) Technical Assistance                                o.o5(4)                0.05
(0.05)                 (0.05)
(e) Training                                            0.12                   0.12
(0.12)                 (0.12)
Total (A)                        5.70        0.32                    6.02
(5.09)      (0.31)                 (5.4)
B. Groundwater Basin Control
Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ)
(a) Equipment (support for BPU)                                      2.48      2.48
[2.13]    [2.13)
(b) Vehicles for BPU                                                 0.31      0.31
[0.27)    [0.27]
(c) Office Equipment & Furniture                                     0.04      0.04
(BPU)                                                           [0.03]    [0.03)
(d) Equipment for WAJ                                                0.70      0.70
[0.60)    [0.60]
(e) Training                                                         0.06      0.06
[0.06]    [0.06]
Total (B)                                                  3.59      3.59
[3.03]    [3.03]
C. Agricultural Research
(a) Technical Assistance                                0.73                   0.73
(0.73)                 (0.73)
(b) Training & IPM Seminar                              0.22                   0.22
(0.22)                 (0.22)
Total (C)                                     0.95                   0.95
(0.95)                 (0.95)



- 26 -
APPENDIX 5
Page 2 of 2
Project Components                         ICB         Other("'    N.B.F."2'|  Total
D. Agricultural Extension
(a) Vehicles                                         0.08                                      0.08
(0.08)                                    (0.08)
(b) Technical Assistance                                           0.04                        0.04
(0.04)                     (0.04)
(c) Training                                                       0.07                        0.07
(0.07)                     (0.07)
(d) Equipment                                                      O.07'5'       0.05          0.12
(0.07)                     (0.07)
Total  (D)                              0.08           0.18          0.05         0.31
(0.08)        (0.18)                      (0.26)
E. Monitoring & Evaluation                                                            0.70        0.70
[0.63]      [0.63]
F. Agricultural Extension (GTZ)                                                       1.75        1.75
[1.57]      [1.57]
TOTAL PROJECT                           5.78           1.45           6.09       13.31'
(5.17)        (1.44)                      (6.60)
[5.28]      [5.28]
(1)  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank ( ) and GTZ/KfW [ J.
(2) Won-Bank financed (GTZ, KfU and Goverrunent).
(3)  Other: International Shopping (t.S.), consultants and TA services.
(4) Consultants and TA services recruited in accordance with Bank's consultent suideLines.
(5) International Shopping tI.S.).
(6) Total may not add ip due to rounding.



- 27 -
APPENDIX 6
Page 1 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT (ASTSUP)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1. Contract Implementation
Project Components             Draft       Bank      Tender    Bank    Contract         Delivery/
Document  No. Obj.   Launch   No Obj.    Award            Execution
A. Water Measurement and
Management
Jordan Valley Authority (JVA)
9/94      10/94      12/94      4/95       6/95           3/96
a) Equipment (farm turnouts)
(ICB US$2.03 m)
12/94      1/95       2/95      5/95       6/95           11/95
b) Vehicles & Maintenance Equipment
(ICB US$2.62 m)
12/94      1/95       2/95      5/95       6/95           12/95
c) Laboratory Equipment & Vehicles
(ICB US$0.66 m)
d) Technical Assistance                          2/95                            3/95          1995/96
(Other USS0.05m)
e) Training                                      4/95                            5195         1995/96
(Other US$0.07 m)
B. Groundwater Basin Control
Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ)
a) Equipment (support for BPU)        9/94      10/94      12/94      4/95       6/95           2/96
(ICB US$2.24 m)
b) Vehicles for BPU                   12/94      1/95        2/95      5/95       6/95          11/95
(Other US$0.28 m)
c) Office Equipment & furniture       12/94       1/95       2/95      5/95       6/95          12/95
(BPU)
(Other US$0.03 m)
d) Training                                      4r95                             5/95         1995/96
(Other US$0.06 m)
e) Equipment for WAJ                  12/94       1195      2/95       6/95       7/95          10/95
(Other US$0.63 m)



- 28 -
APPENDIX 6
Page 2 of 3
Project Components              Draft      Bank      Tender    Bank    Contract         Delivery/
Document  No. Obj.   Launch   No Obj.    Award            Execution
A. Water Measurement and
Management
Jordan Valley Authority (JVA)
9/94      10/94      12/94      4/95       6/95           3/96
a) Equipment (farm turnouts)
(ICB US$2.03 m)
12/94      1/95       2/95      5/95        6/95          11/95
b) Vehicles & Maintenance Equipment
(ICB US$2.62 m)
12/94      1/95       2/95      5/95       6/95           12/95
c) Laboratory Equipment & Vehicles
(ICB US$0.66 m)
d) Technical Assistance                          2/95                             3/95         1995/96
(Other USS0.05m)
e) Training                                      4/95                            5/95         1995/96
(Other US$0.07 m)
C. Agricultural Research
a) Technical Assistance                         3/95 to                        4/95 to 98      1995/98
(Other US$0.73)                                98
b) Training & IPM Seminar                       3/95 to                        3/95 to 98      1995/98
(Other US$0.22 m)                              98
D. Agricultural Extension
a) Vehicles                            1/95       2/95      3/95       6/95       7/95           1/96
(ICB US$0.07 m)
b) Technical Assistance                          2/96                            3/96          1996/98
(Other US$0.04 m)
c) Training                                     3/95 to                        4/95 to 98      1995/98
(Other US$0.07 m)                              98
d) Equipment                          2/95                  4/95      8/95       9/95           3/96
(Other US$0.06 m)                             3/95
E. Monitoring & Evaluation                           2/95                             3/95         1995/98
(Other US$0.70 m)
F. Agricultural Extension (GTZ)                     4/95 to                        5/95 to 98      1995/98
(Other US$1.75 m)                                  98



- 29 -
APPENDIX 6
Page 3 of 3
2. Other
Appointment of Project Coordinator               November 1994
General Procurement Notice                       December 1994
Project Launching                               Jan./Feb. 1995
Monitoring and Evaluation
- Baseline Study                             September-December 1994
- Second Pass                                June 1995
- Third Pass                                 December 1995
- Fourth Pass                                June 1996
- Fifth Pass                                 December 1996
- Sixth Pass                                 June 1997
- Seventh Pass                               December 1997
- Final Evaluation                           June 1998
Mid-Term Review                                  December 1996
Audited Project Accounts due by                  June 30 each year



- 30 -
APPENDIX 7
Page 1 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT (ASTSUP)
MID-TERM REVIEW
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.    Background and Introduction
1.    A mid-term review of all project activities would be carried out
jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture (NCARTT, DOEI), the Ministry of Water
and Irrigation (JVA, WAJ), the Ministry of Planning, the Bank and other
cofinanciers (GTZ, KfW). The review would be held in Amman by the end of the
second year of project implementation, and the project coordinator is expected
to participate.
B.    Obiectives of Review
2.    The objective of the review would be to assess project progress based
on the agreed target indicators, stipulated in Schedule 1, and to recommend
solutions to problems which may have arisen during implementation.
C.    Scope of Work
3.    To facilitate the review, the project coordinator, with inputs from the
implementing agencies and with assistance, if required, from consultants,
would prepare a detailed consolidated report of project performance for the
one and the half years of implementation. This report would be sent to the
Bank no later than September 30, 1996.
4.    The Bank review mission, together with participation from the German
cofinanciers of the project, would visit Amman and discuss the progress of
components with individual implementing agencies. It would evaluate and
assess the implementation progress with respect to achieving agreed physical
targets. This would involve assessing physical achievements, such as the
number of farm turnouts rehabilitated in the concerned project area and the
water control devices installed, the number of wells in the Highlands
installed with flow meters, and the number of groundwater monitoring equipment
purchased. The review mission would undertake field visits to the project
area to participate in random test checks of physical achievements on the
ground. Technical assistance programs would be assessed in terms of feedbacks
from the benefitting Ministry, and training programs in terms of the number of
people trained. The mission would also assess the need for redesign and/or
restructuring of project components with imple mntation difficulties,
including as necessary drafting an action plan to be carried out until
completion.
5.    The mission would prepare an aide-memoire with recommendations to be
discussed with Government representatives at a wrap-up meeting at the end of
the review.



- 31 -
APPENDIX 7
Page 2 of 3
MID-TERM REVIEW REPORT
DRAFT TABLE OF CONTENTS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Background
Project Data
IBRD Loan Number
Loan Amount
Project Cost
Date of Presentation to IBRD Board
Date of Signing of Loan Agreement
Date of Effectiveness
Closing Date
Mid-term Review, Report Preparation Date
Disbursements to Date
Commitments (Undisbursed)
Disbursed and Committed
Estimated Disbursements in FY 96
2. Introduction
3. Project Origin, Agriculture and Water Sector Contexts
4. Project Objectives
6. Project Components and Detailed Features:
(a) Water Measurement and Management in the Jordan Valley
-Review of Progress (ROP)
-Current Status of Works (CSOW)
-Issues (I)
-Recommendations (R)
(b) Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control
-ROP
-CSOW
-I
-R
(c) Research
-ROP
-CSOW
-I
-R



- 32 -
APPENDIX 7
Page 3 of 3
(d) Extension
-ROP
-esow
-I
-R
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation
-ROP
-csow
-I
-R
7. Review of the Status of Overall Implementation
(a) Procurement (Issues and Recommendations)
(b) Disbursements (I & R)
(c) Accounts and Audits (I & R)
(d) Counterpart Funds (I & R)
S. Reviev of Status of Legal Covenants
9. Reviev of Project Impacts
10. Summary of Recommendations



- 33 -
APPENDIX 8
ASAL MONITORING
LEVEL THREE - MonitorinQ of Trends
(to be conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture)
Household surveys will be conducted to tract over a four year period changes
in farms and household incomes, production patterns, etc. The following are
the principal data that will be presented in summary form for Government and
cofinancier information and action:
Output
* changes in crop mix
* changes in production
* changes in yield
Prices
* changes in farmgate prices
* changes in consumer prices
* changes in import and export prices
Income
* changes in structure of household income
* changes in the income of poor households
* changes in agricultural income
* changes in non-agricultural income
(transfers, employment, other enterprises, returns on assets)
Emplovment
* changes in farm employment
(Jordanian and non-Jordanian)
Other
* irrigation water use efficiency
* volume of agricultural imports and exports
* changes in agrarian structure



- 34 -
APPENDIX 9
Page 1 of 9
nisneLLte JaLngUoU vt .aorafn
Aqricultucil S.ctor Technical suppoct Proj-ct IA.STSU?)
roject Ce- "A  bY  '*ar
(zSS I
Totals Including ContingoncLas
1 l99S     1996         1991        1996      Total
1 lter Hoag s-nt a l gen                        4,457,34   1,560,310             -           -  4.017,657
2. GCound-atet Walntoring A D-3en Cantrol  2,026,276  1,561,030                  -           -  3,587,314
3. AqrLcultur. Research                         297,312.9  211.405.3  217,363.0  225,451.1  952,012.9
4. AqricultuZa1 5At*nxIon(rBltn)                123,506.3   69,213.3   53,353.8   51,939.1  303,513.0
S. Aqricultural  xte.n ionCGTZ)                 419,912.0  429,403.4  442,602.7  458,101.2  1.749,999
S. )onLitorLng * tvaluati.n                     167,92(.9  171,793.5  1117041.2  183,240.6  1005 tOO      
rotAl ipDC  CO$S:                                  7,497,171  4,003,24i  191,360.6  918,772.7 1,3,310,556
ied Jul 04 17:24:13 1994
WashwLite KLnqdo  Of Jatdan
Agricultural Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSVI)
Projtet Coot SU.& Y
I TIotal
WLn&aI                             MS1                  foreglgn    M&sJ
Lcal    Foreign    Total        Local      1rseiqrL     Total    gxehange  Costs
3. h.ete.at Coats
A. ZquLpsent               $29,454.4 4,051,331 4,560,735  840,403.1  4,430,434  7,271,011             3S        94
I. Vehiclea                 54,949.  494,544.5 149,494.1   87,221.6  734,994.4  372,216.0             30         I
C. UaWJq                   43,260.2 209,224.9 252,435.1   63,667.0  332,103.0  400,770.0             U3          4
S.  ecMcal Asalatace 175,571.7 1.5380145 1.75,711  278,635.2  2.503.167  2,756.32                  9o         25
hetsl 2aLO"ost Coots           J03,25.9 4,335,243 1,136,484  1,274,313 10,055,949 11,330,26               3       ]00
TX. 34E-Mst C_At.
A. 0 4 U - V* dcles        22,610.0           -  22,630.0   36,300.0             -   36,000.3          -         _
5. 0 4 t - Uaberatot7        1.2(0.0          -   1,260.0    2,000.0             -    2,000.0
Total VACUCt C.t.A              23 340 0           -  23 940.0   38.0000.             -   3  ooo.e_
otal SAR=.=  COa$              627-, ,335,243 7,162,424  1,I12, 916 a ,O55,949 113,43,O26                      so  I00
PbysLcal Contingencie*        117,783.6 393,694.7 1,011,485  136,964.0  1,413,544  1,605,532             It      . 14
Price Contingencies            49.JJS.4 372.335. 421 770.8   39,313 0  295 734 .6  33  e91.7           3S          3
at.la  VMO3=   COSTS            994,399.9 7,401,2o0 3,595,430  1,539,257 11,771,300 13,310,516              go      117
Wed Jul 04 11:23:39 1994
9-1 Pzo3ect Cmpon.ents by T4a:



- 35 -                                                 APPENDIX 9
Page 2 of 9
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Agricultural Sector Technical Support Project CASTSUP)
Project Cost Summary
I     I Total
Ilnar                             tusS)                To:.ln    Base
Local    oreign    Total      Local      Foreiqn      Total    Exchange  Costs
t. watet )sIruzo_nt   Man.een nt             331,930.4 2,914,601 3,246,539  526,873.6  4,621,362  5.153,236           90        6S
2. Groundwater Monitoring a Scain Control 214,376.4 1.52,777 1,927,154  436,311.1  2,623,ISS  3,059,761                36       27
3. Agricultuce Research                       49,776.3 447,956.7 497,763.0   79,010.1  711,090.0  790,100.0            t0        7
4. Agrlcultural tktensiocnlIfl               3S1,546.1 122,45S.0  160,001.1 S   9,597.0  194,313.0  253,910.0         77         2
S. Agricultural KxtensionlGTZ)                31,121.9 120,110.8 911.271.6  144,647.4  1,361,127  1.646,474           t0        13
6. Mnitocing S tvalmation                     4191i.3 371,269.6 419,183.4   66,537.8  591,140.6  665,375.4            90         6
total SAX8L33  CorTS                            127,17S.9 6,335,24t  7,162,424  1,312.978 10,055,949 11,365,926           3s      100
?Uymlcal Contnagencies                        117,181.6 893,696.7 1,011,4O S  116,966.0  IL, ll 5   1,605,532          as        14
trlco Costingencie.                            49,435.4 372,335.4 421,7170.    39,313.0  296,714.S  336097.6           to         3
total  3OSC2 CtISJ                              994,399.9 7,601,230 0,59S,660  1,539,257 11,711,300 13,310,556            of      117
Wed Jul 56 17s23:32 1994
R&Bbsit* Kngdoe  Of Jordan
Arlicultural Sector Technical Support ?Projct (ASTsuP)
lto3*at Cospmentt by leat
CUSS)
Base cost
1995       1996        1997        1995      Total  
1. Water Measurement a  Kaageant              3,833,479  1,313,757            -           -  5,153,236
2. Groundwater Monitoring S laiL  Control 1,715,393  1,316,370                -           -  3,059,763
3. Agdculture Ia"ere                          256,100.0  178,800.0  171,000.0  171,080.0  790,100.0
4. Agricultural xteaslosUtRD)                110,693.0   53,277.0   44,000.0   41,000.0  253,970.0
S. AqrLcultural  mtemssion(GT3                361,618.5  361,618.S  361,613.5  361,613s.  1,446,674
6. Monitoring a 3Valuation                    166344.6  166,344 .   1_6.344.S  166,344 .   $65S378.4
total a.ZK   COSTS                               6.419,633  3,392,367  749,93.1  7t46,96.l 11,z 52
Physical Cootingescie                          946,993.3  413,903.4   67,542.3   37,092.3  1.605,532
ltj.  Costge.e
Local                                       18,564.2   33,637.2   10,911.4   15,556.1   73,463.9
toreign                                     62 714.7  110986.4   47.837 0   75_ 24  4  29S6714.6
subtotal  fLUatea                            51,219.0  144,423.6   S$67444    0, 602.5  375,253.4
Devaluatioie                                 -10,726.0  -17,450.5    ,9493.6  -4,035.7  -39,15S.
Subtotal PrLce ContLngencies                    70,553.0  126.973 1   53.154.7   14716.3  336,097.1
to     S =  COSTS                                7497711    ,91,360.6  913,712.7 13,310,556
oS.                                  .                 -           _           _           _           _
foreign tUchmang                               6,664,26   3,199,212  791,753.3   16,064.2 11,771,300
Wed Jul 06 17:24s07 1i9t
4-1 Project Cost S.mary



- 36 -                               APPENDIX 9
Page 3 of T9
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Agricultural Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP)
Inflation and Exchange Rates
Up to
Up to       Project
Negotiations    Start    1995    1996   1997   1998
Inflation (in %'s) /a
AUl Prices
Annual Rates
Local                               0.0          0.0      4.5      4.5   4.5    4.5
Foreign                             0.0          0.0      1.9      2.7   3.4    3.6
Compounded rates
Local                               0.0          0.0      2.2      6.9  11.7   16.7
Foreign                            0.0           0.0      1.0      3.3   6.4   10.2
Exchange rates (Locall/Foreign) /b
AUl Prices
Rates actually used                       0.6          0.6      0.6      0.7   0.7    0.7
Constant purchasing parity rates          0.6          0.6      0.6      0.7   0.7    0.7
: deviation                               0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0
/a   Yearly values are within Each Project Year
lb   Yearly values are at Project Year Midpoints



Dgrieultural Sector Techimlal Support Project IASYISW
taleI.it.c Iloaog.met a flIaaga.wat la the J&gdau Valley
p4tailed Coota
O'e.atitloo  Wait            Us.. Cost                                ~~~~~~~~~totals Iseludia. Cce,tingo.cie.
....jj....,                     VWEh~TItI     1I 'I  Cost  ,..Il9.,.   3991            it, 99    Tol o$jj4,.                      197        1
2. 2wotmn  eate
A. Vm8tag Mfaaumie zVot,mwat
,.esuge Regulators                                Ndbe          430   430            *   1964     so) 2S0,190.0 210,690$.0           -             510,3100.0 21,0132.3 297,7137.0         *          -1*1749.1
Double  Outlet A 4Schlum.rger lot ml              Ihunb.r        21    20      *           So   1,100  37,500.0  37,164.0            --  7,6000.0  63.S34.7  64,137.6                      -             9,412.3
Flow motors 6V.N.)                                Number        010  7**                I m 1,310   10  173,SS0.0 100,000.0          -- 360,610.0 291,475.1 121,911.1                                    121,114.1
Gate V.1v..                                       Numbe         309   309-                 00 fee  se   10,0609.0 1160,00.0          -             300,000.0 174.130.S 178,110.1           -             32.21992
P1ow 9*l,aterv                                    Number        210   210      -           20      317  24,170.0  26,7.0                        *4914.   20:,123.0  29,300.11                            S 7,701.0
flowm Ijaitiuvg davies                              W-ber          so    is                 161     117   1,01..   6,431.6             *-1,0.                      791,4   7,6627            -             0.430.0
Tubular Comnetct     (orage  r.M.S                Number         21    21                  so 1     92   2,071.0   2,075.0           -               4,110.0   2,600.9   2.444.c                            ,4.73.3
lprotegetle. Iome  with faOsdatiaw                lkinbse      67S   671                1,310     323 224,77S1.0 224,775.0           -             4,1.   4,4.   6,5.                                    27,90S1.
Disuaatlteg, I.ia,telli.9                         Number        6i$   671                ,1        1   74,921.0  74,921.0            -             1961.         ,02." 3  0,9.                           171,964.1
Obits, Nots, casket. Too1e,  tet.                Iu#i46.:                                                                             -----   22.222.0  12.099,0  13.196.                   -----   2640fS.2
Alitotal.e  Whtsv Ueft uciag mslpa.t                                                                      qS86   960,981.0                            I.p21,92102  1,101,737 11,)0--2,2S9.466
D. VehilsIe a WaLatemaoes equppat
I. Yahiel..
4)40, station Wagon                            Pumber         S      -     -             2  27,777  15,S14.6                -                -  11,11.0  66,490.6                                      6,9.
AND0 Dwblo Cable, 1.V5.                        I I,inb.       I      -                      22,222 110,110.0           -                        111,1160.  120,996.4                                  2,9.
mlotorcycles                                   Aumbe         so    IS                  lot100   e 2 190 Ii!A!! its.*    2100.                - 210,000.0 141,111.6 141,15911.                        293.174.4
Subtotal Vehicle.                                                                                       -1,4-6 4.0 i121,000.0                     414,044.0 336,600.0 146.451.7-                        40,6.
2. Shahztsmaw" r4edpooet.
Mlobile Warkasope                              Number          A                            66,660 266,606.0 1                                 24g,661.0 309,176.9---30,6.
flatbed truck with era"e                       Nuber          2      -                   2  66,666 132,332.0           -                       1-333,332.0 1U.14,9.1 S                                5*6.
Wheel loeder/lalckhoo  .                        mbmer          3     2      -     -        160,000 266,664.0 177,776.0                         404,440.6 309,174.9 211,139.2                       -12,6.
Tracked hydraulic excavaters                   IIbr                            -         2 211.111 422,222.0           -          -             22,222.0 490,161.1           .          -             90,161.1
07 %rpm buldozer                               Komher          2     -            -      2 244,444 46666.80            ---6,.0                         017,2.-                                     -16,03
froant NWd loader 2 es.st.                     Number         2      -      -             1)3,.333 260,666.0           -                     -24,44.  3 9,7.                            -          .  09,192
Surveys a ILLCIAcella..u  55lI equippoet   tAmpair                                                  et III 0                        --  ---       ,11    70,941. I                                    70961.3 
PAbtetal WebGIsles  MS ejteessepe r9afra"A,                                                               2, 197,211 302,774.0                        2,699,907 2,150,791 319,199.0            -.2.910. 391
C. teaAaLagt fec aft *Ltaf 
t~eed  Traiming                                staff Mt'aU        7     -      -                3,000  23,900.0           --21,4000.9  20,379.4                                  -                       26,379.4
OdPOtSes?eTrairAng                             staff tiostha            7      -7   6,000                          42 ,o06.--  42.@00.0                              -=  49,162.0            ________
SAtAi Ti tu4aig Cow Of start                                                                              21000   200.                                 3,000.0   43.   49,902.1                         -7,4.
D. JVI IsabehhLey Equ4pee
-Voiebtcof, mobll. labecatwry                    Iamps                                                 122,222.0                                  122,222.0 141,090.0                                    1,9.
TUbraini r  oqelpoet                             Ihsc461,0.0                                                                  000.0                     00.0139,30.151,0.
-heborotog~~~~~~~~~ulp                                                                      40,000.0                                    00004,3.                       _______  44,627.0
subtots  Ova Uabe.,osy Impdaoe1 i                                                                         627,222.0           .                        27.222.0 720,117.7 1                                 720,31S7.
International i.ert                            Stort Nith         2     -                   51,.000  3,4000.0                        -              6,000.0  43,763.3           --43,76133
NetiemalL Ispoft              *                Stal  SlAuth                                 2   1,166       000A! I                                 306000  JJj62f             -                          3,402.
Akdatotal. 2aiO.Ia  A5soltet                                                                               190000!            .                     - _______   I 4121.1                       .-41,214.3
tel                                                                              ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie3,~~~~~~~,6.7  1,313,717  -  - 1,03,230 14,47,361   r 1,4,05  a           .0.1
d Jul Of 1Ilsllao 1996
1-i Water NaGeasuren' S Iboaissist In the JOdes Vel.7y



ma*bmlle Eitm. Of leeds
Agrimltunl Seetmi To  steel  Et  pojg    lAIli
TahIz. 2.9.mst.t_te Nb1suA  *i Csst * I 
atqw,*Mt . M. 4u
A. fqd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vlaatfr    lsl
flIng   .t.t (F.N.5             w>_t        use i.s.             * ass       tat 17*,o.e i,oSs.                    *         .  ,66,6.  e90,sso.s a.o,zat                  - 1,1,0 ls? 1,'6,11ll  iii, no.
Zaatalktlm lt@ 2.00.6         _             74 1.40        -     *, i. .      05@*@ SS,dO@.0 l6.266.6                  - 11,.@0.e  11,169.a7 136.001).. - *0.417{.0  11,346.2 54.@02.t
Aelmeil. Valt m...d.               M , IFs 1              -     .    as   s. "I    se. s@oso n. -  7S"00.  2IO.3 19,303.5                                                 .  *0606.   79166.0   1110.7
ilacitlallai  tal( La.1 Ib.                   o     j                  516616005,6.                                         16001,4.    9609*1.9,0910   1,1191.11  89,902.1
SAtiable l uttt11tN   Nute      1_te         1.    I             .    is  I2 os  11 000.0   o," . .           *         -   1 S . 6 ..   o01.1  on.s             -         -  9,138.3   7,I.a    1    .1
n motora                        Pumr         to    is 1          .    a2     os      .330.0   is3le.                       1 .   s,sse.s  9o,n .s    s1  .,          1- I,5n.o  17.0,1 .6   1,914.
L aptop _psteta                 p                    *                     3,7,7  41,61.0          -41,06w.8   0. 3 uss@ *                                          n   - -  4 s.3 1,122.51  4.63S.
Waer 3q'tasot -Sa                                                                 ai    s I        -          - am217771.0  32,21.0                  3*          *         -  32,17.. 29,822.)   3,224.7
Globa   i    mt    pt         m                                                   27,77*.0         -          -         -  2_,777.0  32,247.0         .          -         - 32,2.  29,022.3   3.2)1.7
6ttx    PaI    hbo                                   -     -1S                                      - *       * .       _                   7          -         -            32.211.1  29.0).    m2.1 14.1
4le, d_1a aeha, P. v.           Po            2     .      .     .    12 22.222 646,666                                   2 .  -264,664.0 39,176.     .          .         ' 309,16.0 271,619.2  30,951.1
C. O"Cl" tPiPMOt I Furniture   P,                       *  -  b           10  3.333 333  00                                   33.330.0   0,63.6  8                            .  0, 693.6  31,021.3   3.009.4
O. trainAo  to wO"   .
Loal                           ta cc       *Mt  *    A     -     -      P  2000  1.40.0  11,52..             -         -,20.0       ' 16,717.3  15,612.-                  - 30,395. ,9.9  29,039.6
forsit                        Stot uUomth     2     *                   I  S. "S , 2,Uf  2..t0fl                          .          13.9)1.1 I2,113.1 20.1183.1
SoASJl  titshm fog WO  autol                                                         26,800.6  2), 0.0           -            40,020.0  30,400.4  27,0)16.0                      S  0,S12.4  12,143.0  21,039.4-
*.  qWuIF t tot W   la             1br          Io -                       t 1,000    . 0.4. _S1"  off. 0                            0 6961_,5.0                                its 651.0 ,69        69 6,5 I
at                                                    i~~iii*su T1T17111           -         - 3,010,766 2.026.216 t11Tiii            -         - 3.1S1.3~~~~~~J.' %3,0110.0127i1iii1I 1
Motor Isaac, 10 * 2             '- . .
Jul 0f 17115127 loot
Ln Z
r-1
1i'h
OH
2Iftinp"t*t Sevin "o"tt.ing aNW Cemetl



Ushabmlte Kkagdm of Saud..
*Aplaulturl Seater t cimleel 0oport Preojat IMTIfl
table S. 4Arieutur, hReseara
pataiud  eh
L".Ii1i.h      t la                                aCt                                     fetoe.ledia  Catiae1as   _or.
_11319                                                                                                                               -- Total_   Inch.
2. 2h_a_t bea
A. teahil A aatstae                              an                                            110,4.0  10,0 , 110 .0 IS0.        ,000.  "*."o   1.,131.0 172,1s90.  103,19.4 190021.2 12S,902.6   3,231l.1
1. maetrials                                                                                                                              569o-  .6.    s.o.                             *     soe.       s2.o
P'      sfol                         ltt                                      72    so    ,64.0            -          -         -   2,0.    6,170.2             - 3                       471.2   2,741.l
. Staft 1           9 mm            Statl Days       t o       .   .    .    n        0        .I -                   -          -     900.0   1 4.0            -          -         -   1             9
Rue staff                           ftaff Dys       34      -      '     -    26     S   1.0440            -      *             -    ,000.0   2,01.7            -          -         -   2, 09.1   1, 0.1
-  Dvegaivaty                       Staff DaYa       to     -                         0s    94.*           -          -         -        c.  1i.e..             _          _              1, .
Iulvate sector                      statl Daye    1t        -     -      -    t0    so        t00.         -e        1-         -                                                         10-  - t049 0.3
M6t l ICURWISK                      StottDays       isis                             sotoo,**.    1,040                                                                                        . -  -    . 10.3
3. P /t!XAP VT 1t1e Iflt                            10      -     -      -    1p c.@*  3,64-0.                                                                  - 0.  @.*|s - _      -  3 u. 10. .    9 3.s
3. Fet Ardate tralam                      Statf NOt"        0    to    it    is    50 2,0 .1    J0  i* .04.6  17eooe.0 3.0 3000  30 6.0 L.1  3.211 s.; 32 140 4 321.S70.S 109Iit] 7
A~~hete1    ~ ~                                          29,906.0  20,000.0  24,eoe.o  51,000.6 109,509.0  29,403.4  33,214.0  34,270.4  31,410.4 132,199.9 1171JO 132's"5 11"131
C. Z1ll3mLae/b
M ?A t IND 4 Field)                      ,             o@ -                      I0                                                    10,40.0 U,016.                                          0        2
latencie a. 4  tbers                    5AIM  SW*  soso   900  259,04.0                                                                IS 2,400. 0  29,023.3                                  29,023. I' 4,124.'
Other eapoasee /a                        &,m                                                 0440."O,0                                  S . 644.0  4.j0l,           *         --    .1.?   5,1.04
&AheAW  Du madam                                                                               to t0o 0          -                    -00 604 4L  93 170, 4                                     )--    3.70. 4     1623. S
4a1                                                                                               1i61iio i'      AE 176,***.* 11100.08 7iiti.0i 291;312.9 211,601.3 2016,03.0 22.1,61.0 912,072.9 016,461.4
Duaration at the WOChshap, 2 days at 1SS 10/day/iraein.
* VurtlOeZ Of the amesict 10 days at US$ 5e/deaypersms in particlpeto tIm  UC.. Is p5 e rticipa*tA  (no oitSsio, Univerolty. and private aectog.
Ilcldes tralmet ft.s 410 day. I US$ 2$O1d.ylg Substele 401 days I USS f/daylO    4 I               tip travel tW ''sell
4 Jal 06 11714,2 1094
a,
7tri
ti
3-1 Aorlcalte 3awrch



Aplouieatoi Sectas taLca1  Suppwe t Pr.joat (SMU)
t TabEl  A * Ailulttasl etenio  (ISM"
Detailad " aa
(US#)
areakda.~of I.
Loc.k
-~                      n.h                         Sag.atltotal. Ialugt  IhaT LI                                    tis...eia               for.       lascl.
ltt  _  Col  I1jLn1Jj4I51ifl..j!JL1h!1 .7                                                         a91 [-,, ,jj,t  p99                     I9$S      Total       ackh._  T*Xes
A. rma.pa
btpartmast of b      etaeh     - Olr  _g           3               *         3 -  2  2,222   664.0.                             .       ". 4   77.390.2          -                     .  n     .2  69,651.6   77.19.4
. Te_sLO&  Amaetamm
3. ,ittat of A;tiutia             Staff$          _       2     1      4    12  3.              *    . Z @0, .0  2,00.0  12,060.0  36,000.6           -  10,669.0  16,350.2  15,291.7  11,25S.0  39.6)S.9   1,025.0
C. Twi.-
Staf(  Tralinig (local?           StafImee.s,   If    is    Is    is    is    300   2,.00.a   1.S0.    41.600.0   I,e.o  1s s ..   3.,00.6   51344.S 5,507.0   S.100.6  20,0*75.7  1.032.1   2.002.6
Staff Tralatinag (agsaaa)         Statffwaks       S    1i    20    20 1     1    IS$   3 750 0    7 S00 0  1        0I.t0          It0    1   (313  S   0,907 S  1M],59.2  19 o02.1  50,622.4  15.SS0.1  5.0S2.2
1wtabt.aI troJala                                                                            i;7S0.  12 ON     19,100*.  1Soo,I.0  1            imaj 7,036.2  14,212.   237,o7.0  241702.0  70,S50.0  *3,152.2   7,01S.3
D. !qlpaa
Ccunication  * Cpitlin             1     I  .                          - I   2 27,777 _7.7770  27 77. a                          -  15,s110  32.247 0  32.910.9             -          -4S236.9 _50713.?   6.5)3.7
tAI lavaSt_.t Cost.                                                                          101,193.0  4 7.0  34,100.0  31,100.0 211S,70.0 117,477.5  57, 91.0  42 622.3  39,901.S 2S7,539.2 231,705.2  2S.71.9
VAWma.t Coat.
A. 0 a H - Vhicles                     L_mp Sum       3      S     3      S    12  3.044,  9,000.0   9,00.0I  9,60.  9,000.0  3l00e.0  1I,116.3  10,000.0  11.01S5  11,401.3  43,1SS4.2                         -  @1.114.2
S. 0 a   - 3qul.pant                   IA_ eas        I      I     I      I     a    sea       S0o  0     so.o       0         500 0   2,000.0          e.o 530. l    3.    12.0      433.4   2,419.7        _      2419.
6.0 ft     .t C-to9 ,,,,    ,.500.:   w!iiGi 310000   S                                                                                                   .500 00I 282.9  11.A 27.   12.034.7  45,973.6           -  65,971.6
.1                                                                                          110,493.0  56,270.i  44,000.0  41,000.0 213,970.0 f151 i S           , OS213.0  13,9 53 .3  11,93.1 301.513.0 231,761.2  71,121.1
Jul I, 17i16.26 1996
0
_>
1Q  t7
s 1Z
a
o H
0 r-4
4-1 AMimsltaral Satmoagm  (1380)                                                                                                .'0



P u g g   - 41 -            MPEAIX 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPNI
:l ii
'1 i-I
ik~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.4.
* .1!~
b
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~.f



unit          TOW                                                                                                                     toch,   Tonsil      Texas
A. ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ i_tt@Xt,    e"t^ri    aZl  1wiSltz 1"_1"w                                                                                                     .s Ic.....            *@ 
t. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.b.t IIm,iin U  hd
kft"                                                                                                                                                      184.180.1   1, I,     76. 000..1l6,l.6l*,l,*S,X.l11,21   3}%sn4X21",, , @.  Z,@.    s,
be jut *^ 17.1"1SIota                                                                                .
.ta.-.                                                                                                >
I~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ Iw~                                                             W .        11
A. ~it.ilmg  aEvaluatte.   ~   66311.6 isaSC., I6LIIIaI16.St4.6 66411.4 as1.~1I.9  71.79).S 1ii*it.t 165.liS5 iNSeCI  IIS.@O.i  7*.eee.
petal  ~,iaae i..,.i Ti~iiiT~i    ~                                    iiile.    i*us.  ila.,,.. a,eaa.z           *      leeeei.I               ee.e.



- 43 -
APPENDIX 10
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT (ASTSUP)
Revised Detailed Cost Table 2: Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control
Under KfW Co-financing (Ref. page 9 of ASTSUP Technical Annex)
ITEM                  UNIT         QUANTITY   UNIT COST  TOTAL           COMMENTS
(US$)    COST (US$)
A. EQUIPMENT
(1) Water Meters,
Equipment
and Fittings       Number        1500            810    1,215,000
(2) Other
Equipment         Lump sum                               445,800    (See No. 1)
Sub total Equipment                                         1, 660,800
B. VEHICLES (4wd-field)  Number      20           20,300      406,000    (See No. 2)
C. OFFICE
EQUIPMENT AND
FURNITURE           Number         10           3,000        30,000
D. TRAINING OF WAJ
STAFF                                                                 (See No. 3)
(1) Local              Staff month     9           2,880       25,920
(2) Foreign            Staff month     4           6,000       24,000
Sub total Traimng     _                                        49,920
E. REPLACEMENT
EQUIPMENT          Number         175          10,160    1,778,000    (See No. 4)
F. WATER TANKERS    Number            10          64,520      645,200    (See No. 5)
TOTAL FOR
GROUNDWATER                                               4,569,920    (See No. 6)



- 44 -
APPENDIX 10
Page 2 of 2
Cost Table 2: Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control
Under ASTSUP KfW Co-fmancing
No. (1):    These include: 30 automatic water recorders, 25 electric water level meters, 20
portable conductivity meters, 20 pH meters, 15 lap top computers, small
equipment and tools (US$ 30,000), water measurement equipment (US$
30,000), 5 global positioning system and other well control equipment and
equipment for data processing.
No. (2):    Number of vehicles increased from 12 to 20 as a result of further assessment by
WAJ and KfW.
No. (3):    This component, costing about US$ 50,000, will be financed from the World
Bank loan unless alternative grant financing is found.
No. (4):    This item is additional support for WAJ agreed between the KfW appraisal
mission and WAJ (and includes replacement pumping equipment).
No. (5):    The ten tankers were identified during ASTSUP appraisal. Additional
equipment is also being financed by KfW under their Water Sector Program II.
No. (6):    Total = US$ 4,569,920 equivalent consisting of:
(a) KfW financing = US$ 4,520,000 equivalent (7 million D.M.)
(b) World Bank loan financing for training = US$ 49,920 if no alternative grant
financing is found.



- 45 -
APPENDIX 11
Page 1 of 7
THE ASTAP PROGRAM
1.       The Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program (ASTAP) was
requested by Government at the start of the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL) dialogue in 1992 to provide support to ASAL implementation and to
provide assistance to farmers in managing changes during the adjustment
period. Government asked for Bank help to organize project preparation and to
mobilize and coordinate financing, with an objective of maximizing grant
financing. The Bank was to have a minority share in financing, and Bank loan
funds were to be directed primarily to "hardware."  Technical assistance would
be financed primarily by grant funds.
2.       Over the last two years, the Bank has worked closely with Government
and donors on preparation and on the financing plan. The FAO/CP prepared the
ASTAP in 1993 under Government and Bank supervision. The Bank has cooperated
with Government in coordinating multi-donor grant funding (USAID, GTZ, French
Aid, KfW). The broad ASTAP program has total funding of about $25.51 million,
including support for integrated pest management, horticulture development,
and development of the Ministry of Agriculture. Within this multi-donor
program is a core project called the Agriculture Sector Technical Support
Project (ASTSUP), which would be financed by the Bank, GTZ, and KfW. ASTSUP
is a $13.31 million project (Bank $6.60 million, GTZ $2.20 million, KfW $3.08
million and Government 1.43 million).
3.       The ASTAP framework comprises the support project, ASTSUP, and
components that are financed as free-standing projects by other donors and
which will not be supervised by the Bank. There is an advantage in having an
ASTAP program because it provides a framework for coordinating implementation,
exchanging information, and avoiding overlap. It allows Government and the
Bank to demonstrate to farmers and the population at large that adjustment
comes accompanied by a good deal of implementation support. It also
highlights the components that are not yet financed and should help the search
for suitable donors. In short, the matching of ASAL reforms with ASTAP
technical support is a visible sign of Government's commitment to supporting
producers during the transition. Designed to improve the efficiency of
response, ASTAP will help to improve benefits and mitigate adverse effects
and, hence, reduce political risks to the program.
4.       The ASTAP framework comprises a number of donor-financed projects
designed to support the ASAL and to alleviate the major constraints to the
development of sustainable agriculture: water, producer services, and markets
(para. 1.3, Technical Annex).   There is the Bank and German financing of the
water comDonents in the ASTSUP. In addition, under ASTAP, GTZ is providing
bilateral support for a project of about US$1.75 million to improve water
quality through training and studies. For Droducer services, in addition to
the research and extension components in ASTSUP, GTZ would be providing
bilateral support for a project on integrated pest management (IPM).
Appraisal for the project is underway. The project, estimated at US$1.75
million, would build on a GTZ study on biological control of the white fly and



- 46 -
APPENDIX 11
Page 2 of 7
would use the existing facilities of the pesticide formulation and residue
control laboratories in Baqa, near Amman. Similarly, bilateral support of
about US$1.0 million is being provided by the French in the development of
horticultural crops (apple and flower growers). Overall, under ASTAP, there
is also broad-based support for institutional development in the Ministry of
Agriculture presently being sponsored by USAID and GTZ. This is expected to
improve MOA's performance, particularly with respect to services to farmers.
5.       On market develotment, recognizing the smallness of the domestic
market and the need for an outward-looking agricultural sector in order to
increase value added, Government and the private sector have been making
considerable effort to develop the agricultural export sector and, in
particular, to overcome the historical problems (para. 1.5, Technical Annex).
6.       In the public sector, Government has taken an active role in market
development, setting up two parastatal entities, the Agricultural Marketing
Organization (AMO) and the Agricultural Marketing and Processing Company
(AMPCO). AMO was established in 1987 as a semi-independent entity under the
MOA to formulate agricultural marketing policies and public development of
both domestic and export markets. AMO's major activities include studies,
establishing a market information service and training. It has had very
little success in providing practical assistance to farmers and exporters.
Growers and exporters tend to place little trust in it; perhaps because it is
a Government organization which has done little to achieve its mandate.
7.       AMPCO's original mandate was to serve as catalyst for private sector
market development, but it has become extensively involved in trade on its own
account. It was established in 1983 as a public stock company, with the
Jordan Investment Organization owning 82.5% of the shares and the rest owned
by the Social Security Corporation (12.5%) and Agricultural Credit Corporation
(5). AMPCO owns and operates three produce packing stations, one tomato and
citrus processing plant, one large cold store, and various other plants. It
also exports fresh produce. During periods of shortage, AMPCO imports apples,
potatoes, and onions under a government monopoly agreement, and is required by
the Government to purchase tomatoes for processing at support prices.
S.       In the private sector, there has been some efforts to promote
agricultural exports. These efforts are, however, not well organized and are
too diffused to achieve the concentrated discipline and organization necessary
to break into the demanding markets of Europe. There is therefore scope for
improving cooperation in the agricultural marketing efforts of the private
sector to improve coordination in identification of market needs and
negotiation of contracts, production and quality certification, post-harvest
handling and pre-cooling of produce, transportation and timely delivery.
9.       Through the Government's adjustment program, supported under ASAL,
price distortions would be eliminated and a favorable incentive environment
would be created for production and marketing by removing import controls,
including AMPCO's monopoly. AMPCO would be privatized. Substantial
adaptation to the new environment is expected from farmers in the form of
shifts in the composition of their produce to better quality, higher value



- 47 -
APPENDIX 11
Page 3 of 7
produce as they exploit new market opportunities. These shifts would require
more dynamic efforts to promote agricultural export sales. Successful
penetration of the European market will require pooling of resources in order
to achieve sufficient concentration of effort to break into this exacting
market. Under ASTAP, GTZ would be providing support initially of about
US$1.45 for horticultural market development. Appraisal for this project is
underway. This project would be implemented in cooperation with the existing
public institution, AMO. Technical assistance would be provided to inject
principles and methods into AMO to promote private sector export sales. GTZ
would also provide further support to horticultural export market development
by improving metrology, standardization, testing and quality control of
produce.
10.      The end of this note (Appendix 11)  presents all components of the
ASTAP program, the costs breakdown and the financiers. Appendix 12 presents
the linkages between the ASAL reform agenda and the supporting interventions
under ASTAP. The paragraphs below present those unfinanced components of
ASTAP which may be eligible for possible donor financing.
Components for Possible Donor Financing:
11.      Rural Finance.  The Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC) was founded
in 1960, and operates 15 branches, with a highly qualified staff of 255, of
whom half are located in the branches. It is managed by a Board of Directors
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and comprising the Ministers of
Planning and Finance as ex-officio members, the Director General of ACC and
five private sector individuals. ACC is the main institutional source of
ymedium- and long-term credit for agriculture in Jordan. Of the total credit
to agriculture, ACC provides 50%, and its lending has been growing fast.
Between 1989 to 1992, ACC lending grew from JD 5 million to JD 23 million.
12.      There is strong unmet demand for credit for on-farm development and
for farm-related enterprises such as agro-processing and non-farm rural
enterprises. The financial market provides little term investment credit and
has little outreach in rural areas. There is scope, therefore, for an
institution like ACC. ACC, however, has weak management. It also suffers
from financial indiscipline and poor accounting practices. In the past it
received foreign loans at seemingly concessional terms but which proved more
expensive than local funds at market rates. ACC also has access to cheap
funds from the Government. Overall, ACC borrows at an average cost of funds
of 2% compared with an average market cost of funds of 5.2% and lends at 6-8B
(compared with an average market lending rate of 10.9%). These Government
subsidies have made it subject to Government directives, and officially
directed debt forgiveness has eroded credit discipline. ACC has, however, in
the past three years imposed tighter credit management. The recovery rate
rose to 73% in 1993. ACC could be made more financially viable if it is given
greater exposure to the market and granted greater autonomy from Government
interference. This would enable ACC to mobilize deposits in the market, as
permitted by its charter; diversify its lending by spreading its risks over



- 48 -
APPENDIX 11
Page 4 of 7
the whole spectrum of rural enterprises; and be under the supervision of the
Central Bank of Jordan.
13.      As part of Government's adjustment program supported under the ASAL,
Government is to adopt a policy affirming the financial and management
autonomy of ACC. Under the policy, ACC would cover the full range of rural
activities, and have the freedom to adjust its interest rates to cover its
costs. ACC will be supervised by the Central Bank, with the ultimate
objective of transformation into a full-fledged bank. ASTAP proposes five
studies for support of ACC's institutional development: (i) a diagnostic
audit to determine the quality and performance of the loan portfolio in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards for banks; (ii) an
organization and management study to assess the strengths and weaknesses of
the present management and organization system and to propose modifications;
(iii) development of a five-year business plan to define objectives and
targets for development of the lending program (including sources and uses of
funds, and the plan to mobilize deposits); (iv) a rural financial market study
to expand the data base, including such issues as credit demand and savings
behavior among rural households; and (v) a technical study of agricultural
insurance to determine insurable risks, crops, activities and areas.
14.      CooDeratives. There are 236 agricultural primary cooperatives in
Jordan, with a total membership of 18,413. Together with other primary
cooperatives, they form the cooperative movement. These primary societies
operate under the supervision of the Jordan Cooperative Organization (JCO),
the apex organization for all cooperatives, which undertakes regulatory,
developmental, financial and commercial roles. JCO was established in 1971,
and it has become a tool through which Government intervenes in the business
operations of primary societies. Government has entrusted JCO with the
function of a registrar of cooperatives, and with the mandate to carry out
various rural development programs. As a result, the autonomy of cooperatives
has been lost, and many cooperatives are in financial difficulty. Members
have come to regard cooperatives as source of subsidized goods and services
and not as member-serving, profit-making ventures.
15.      JCO has failed as an apex because it combines the incompatible roles
of providing subsidized services while pursuing goals of improved efficiency
and profitability. In addition there has been financial indiscipline, and JCO
is almost bankrupt. It has accumulated deficits of JD 5.7 million. The JCO
Cooperative Bank is also bankrupt. It has total loans and receivables of JD
26.7 million, most of which are non-performing. Part of this lending (JD 11
million) was financed by deposits generated from the public on which the
Cooperative Bank has ceased payment.
16.       The cooperative movement in Jordan is in crisis.  Government is keen
to take action to solve the crisis. Historically, rural cooperatives played a
useful role in providing services to farmers, particularly to small farmers,
and they could play a growing role in marketing and input supply as Jordanian
agriculture further intensifies and adopts a growing outward orientation.



- 49 -
APPENDIX 11
Page 5 of 7
Saving the movement would require a thorough overhaul based on basic
principles so that: (i) members are once again sovereign, and management and
staff are accountable to members; (ii) the top-down apex structure is phased
out and emphasis is given to strengthening primary societies, and to
encouraging their coming together in a federated or union structure; and (iii)
societies have autonomy as private sector enterprises free from governmental
interventions. This restructuring requires the drafting of appropriate
legislation to clarify which functions of the JCO should reside with
Government and which should be managed by the cooperative movement.
17.      Under the adjustment program, supported by the ASAL, Government is
proposing the development of a policy statement and a program of restructuring
to separate regulatory and implementation functions and lay the basis to
revive a bottom-up cooperative movement. The ASTAP will support the reform
efforts by proposing for financing   (i) a study to develop new cooperative
legislation. This would provide for the creation of a small Governmental
regulatory body, the Jordan Cooperative Authority (JCA), under the Office of
the Prime Minister. The study would also develop a Cooperative Code to
provide clear guidelines on the legal roles of cooperatives and their
responsibilities to their members, management, the Government and third
parties; (ii) a study, including a detailed financial audit, which would lead
to the winding up of JCO and its functions; and (iii) a study that would
formulate strategies for developing primary societies into federated
structures.
is.      Rangelands and Livestock DeveloDment.  Livestock development in
Jordan is limited by the declining quality of rangeland resources and the
ambiguity about user rights over particular areas. Declining rangeland
condition is a major problem, and as a result of the significant increases in
livestock numbers, the contribution of rangelands in feeding the national herd
over the past two decades has declined from 85t to 40%. Average range
productivity is low, estimated at 50kg DM/ha per year. This decline is due
to: (i) conversion of higher potential rangelands to marginal barley
production encouraged by subsidized barley prices; (ii) overstocking because
of subsidized feed; and (iii) population encroachment on rangelands to extract
trees and shrubs for firewood. Overstocking is a special problem requiring
attention. In the past decade, the small ruminant stock has more than doubled
from 1.6 million to 3.75 million.  Most of these are kept by medium scale,
sometimes landless farmers, in the Highlands and foothills of northern Jordan,
and in the drier rangelands (the Badia) by nomadic tribes. Many of these
ruminants depend on subsidized feed, but are let loose on the rangeland for
several months a year. For cattle, the 1991 census data indicated that numbers
have doubled from 28,000 (of which 20,000 are native Baladi and crosses; the
remainder Friesian or Holstein cattle) to 64,000 (of which 12,000 are Baladi).
Because of declining range quality and the increasing scarcity of quality
grazing land, most farmers feed their animals with grain and concentrate,
supplemented with roughage, such as straw, alfalfa, hay and crop residues,
ahich are usually scarce and expensive.



- 50 -
APPENDIX 11
Page 6 of 7
19.      Land ownership and user rights are also a problem.  Most of the
steppe and Badia rangelands were traditionally owned by tribes, but are now by
law owned by the Government. The Bedouin do have traditional land rights, and
this was strengthened in the early 1980s when the Government recognized these
rights. user rights are, however, not well defined and controlled. The
development of a land use plan would help to reduce the potential for conflict
and provide a basis for improved range management.
20.      Given Jordan's deteriorating rangelands and the lack of other feed
resources, there is need to manage resources and animal stocks to bring them
in balance with each other and to ensure resource sustainability. The removal
of feed subsidies, part of the Government's adjustment program under ASAL,
should improve use of feed and fodder resources and, in the long term, reduce
the degradation of rangelands arising from overstocking and overgrazing. The
removal of cereal producer subsidies would reduce further conversion of
rangelands for unsustainable grain production. However, presently, there is
no solid baseline data to give an indication of the condition of rangelands in
Jordan. Under the program, it therefore, proposed for financing: (i) a
rangeland studv (using satellite imagery, GIS and vegetational analysis of
sample plots for calibration), which would provide a country-wide empirical
assessment of the extent and rate of rangeland degradation that has been
associated with producer and stockfeed subsidies, and of its environmental and
ecological implications; (ii) a study to review and, if appropriate, propose
amendments to existing legislation on land use and ownership, with the
possibility of transferring ownership or custody to identified range user
(tribal) groups.   It is understood that this study on land use and ownership
is presently underway with USAID funding; and (iii) a socio-economic study to
identify the special tribal groups and range users found in the Eastern
rangelands, their socio-economic activities and aspirations, and propose
specific support programs and actions. It is recommended that selected staff
from DOEI, the Veterinary Services and the Rangelands Division of MOA should
participate to be further trained and to benefit from their prior experience
with working with those peoples. The Agricultural Policy Department of MOA
has agreed to submit to the Bank by May 31, 1994, the detailed terms of
reference and cost estimates for such a study. This study is a potential
candidate for financing under the Desertification Control Initiative.



- 51 -
APPENDIX 11
Page 7 of 7
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ASTAP)
COSTS w/CONTINGENCIES
INANCIER/COMPONENTS                                     Hardware  Software  Total
------ (US$ million) -----
orld Bank/KfW/GTZ Financed Agriculture Sector Technical SuDDort Project (ASTSUP)
Irrigation Improvement
(a) Water Measurement & Mgmt. (Bank)                  5.85       0.17      6.02
(b) Groundwater Basin Monitoring & Control (KfW)    3.53         0.06      3.59
Sub-total                                              9.38      0.23      9.61
(c) Research(Bank)                                               0.95      0.95
(d) Extension(Bank)                                   0.18       0.11      0.31
ank/KfW Financed Total ($9.91 million)                   9.56      1.29     10.87
TZ Financed Com2onents
(e) Agricultural Extension                                       1.75      1.75
(f) Monitoring and Evaluation                                    0.70      0.70
TZ Financed Total ($2.45 m)                                        2.45      2.45
OTAL Bank/GTZ/Possible Kfg Financed
Project (ASTSUP)                                                            13.31
OTHER FINANCIERS/COMPONENTS OF THE ASTAP PROGRAM
ther GTZ Financed Comvonents
Integrated Pest Management                                                 1.75
Inst. Development in MOA                                                   1.05
Water Quality (Studies/Trng)                                               1.75
Horticulture Market Dev.                                                    1.45
Sub-total                                                                   6.00
SAID Financed ComDonents
Institutional Development in MOA                                           1.00
rench CooDeration Financed ComDonents
Support for Horticulture Dev. (apple/flower growers)             1.00       1.00
ther Possibly Donor Financed ComDonents
Rangelands
(a) Study of Range Degradation
(possible EC/CIDA financing)                           0.6        0.6
(b) Socio-economic Study of Land Tenure
and User Rights                                         0.3       0.3
ACC (Rural finance)                                           0.8        0.8
JCO (Cooperatives)                                            0.5        0.5
Sub-total                                                     4.2       4.2
)TAL COST OF ASTAP PROGRAM                                                  25.51



- 52 -                     APPENDIX 12
Page I of 2
Agriculture Sector Technical Support Proiect
Linkages between ASAL and ASTAP/ASTSUP
ASAL                   ASTAP/ASTSUP                 FINANCIER
Water policy framework    Studies of wastewater       USAID
reuse, saline water and   GTZ
environmental impact in    8T$  -        t m Xn 
the Jordan Valley          component)
Restructuring of water    Training  needs             USAID
sector institutions        assessment and training   GTZ
programs for water          4         rId.a
sector institutions
CIDA
Unifying data resources
Support to JVA
laboratory for water
quality monitoring
Groundwater measurement   Complete ongoing             . . .
and management             installation of meters
on wells nationwide
Equip groundwater                    ZfW
management teams
Implement block tariffs   Complete installation       P t.  -.
in the Jordan Valley       of meters and provide
and recover the cost of  minimum necessary
operation and              operation and
maintenance                maintenance equipment
Revise land tenure         Revision of land tenure   USAID
framework                  legislation
Rangeland resource           (not yet financed -
study and socio-           possibly EC, UK or
economic study             CIDA)
Reduce problem of          Revision of regulations   USAID
pesticide use
Implement integrated       GTZ
pest management



53 -AIPPENDIX-12
Page 2 of 2
Market liberalization     Develop marketing           USAID
institutions               GTZ
Develop testing            USAID
services to
international standards
Divest AMPCO               Studies to implement       Danish Trust Fund (Bank
divestiture                implemented)
Restructure Ministry of  Process project of           USAID
Agriculture                institutional diagnosis   GTZ
and change
Develop research           Minimum support for        AlT WA,
NCARTT management to
develop research
targeted at farmers
affected by adjustment
Develop extension          Minimum support for
public extension to
help farmers affected
by adjustment
Put rural finance on       Implementation studies    (not yet financed -
market basis               and support                possibly CIDA or USAID)
Restructure cooperative   Implementation studies    (not yet financed  -
sector                     and support                possibly CIDA or UK)
Monitor impacts of         Monitoring and
adjustment                 evaluation program



- 54 -
APPENDIX 13
Page 1 of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS AND DATA IN PROJECT FILE
A. Working Documents
Markets and Prices, which provides the reasoning and figures that underpin the
trade reforms and elimination of subsidies.
Water, a paper that provides the background to the policy agenda under ASAL, and
gives the rationale for the ASTAP components on water.
Rangeland and Livestock, which provides a synopsis of the rangeland and livestock
sector, gives the analytic base for policy adjustments on livestock incorporated
in the Letter of Sector Policy under ASAL, and identifies areas for study under
ASTAP.
Environment, reviewing the major environmental issues that have to do with water
and agriculture, identifying pesticide regulation and range ownership and use as
two "hot spots" dealt with in the Letter of Sector Policy under ASAL, and
underlining the need for studies and a water quality monitoring program under
ASTAP.
Review of the Public Expenditure Program (PEP), two papers dealing with (1) water
and wastewater, and (2) agriculture. The papers analyse the Five-Year Plan
proposals and give indications of criteria for prioritizing project proposals.
Monitoring and Evaluation, which sets out the parameters for monitoring and
evaluation of the adjustment process under ASAL, including the impact on farmer
income, and defines the system for support under ASTAP.
Institutional Issues in the Ministry of Agriculture, which concentrates on the
objectives of the ministry and on the process of change and development that is
underway.
Agricultural Research, a paper that focusses on the main issues in research
development treated in the Letter of Sector Policy under ASAL, and on the project
proposals supported under ASTAP.
Agricultural Extension, which analyses the state of the extension service now
provided and identifies key development needs both for the Letter of Sector
Policy under ASAL and for technical assistance under ASTAP.
Rural Finance, analyzing the need for policy changes, to be included in the
Letter of Sector Policy under ASAL to help ACC fit in to the financial sector as
a market-based institution, and detailing studies and technical assistance for
ASTAP support.
Agroindustry, which charts a development strategy for the processing of
agricultural products.



- 55 -
APPENDIX 13
Page 2 of 2
Cooperatives, which recommends a new cooperative policy and legislation, as well
as restructuring of public institutions for the sector to be covered in the
Letter of Sector Policy, and details three implementation studies for ASTAP
support.
B. Documents Relating to the Operation
Terms of Reference: AMPCO Study
Action Plans



