Document of
The World Bank
F OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22227
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38180; SCL-3818A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOIUNT OF US$ 6.6 MILLION
TO THE
HASTIEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
May 16, 2001
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1.00 = US$ 1.41
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.708
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL         Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASTSUP       Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project
BPU          Basin Protection Unit
FAO/CP       Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
DOEI         Department of Agricultural Extension and
Information
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICARDA       International Center for Agricultural Research in
Dry Areas
1PM          Integrated Pest Management
JVA          Jordan Valley Authority
KfW          German Agency for Reconstruction
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MWI          Ministry of Water and Irrigation
NCARTT       National Center for Agricultural Research and
Technology Transfer
RASC         Regional Agricultural Service Center
WAJ          Water Authority of Jordan
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Joseph Saba
Sector Manager/Director:   Salah Darghouth/Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader    Tijan M. Sallah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1-3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3-6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7-8
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       8-9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       9
9. Partner Comments                                                                     10
10. Additional Information                                                              18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005321                                       Project Name: TA FOR AGRICULTURE
Team Leader: Tijan M. Sallah                              TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date. May 16, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TA FOR AGRICULTURE                             L/C/TFNumber. CPL-38180;
SCL-3818A
Country/Department: JORDAN                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; AG - Agency Reform;
Al - Irrigation & Drainage; AR - Research
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/15/1992                              Effective: 01/15/1995         05/19/1995
Appraisal:  04/06/1994                                MTR: 06/30/1997            02/14/1998
Approval:  12/08/1994                              Closing: 06/30/1999           12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan/Ministry of
Agriculture(NCARTT and DOEI); Govemment of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan/Ministry of Water and Irrigation (JVA and WAJ)
Other Partners: KfW; GTZ
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Joseph Saba                               Ram Chopra
Sector Manager:      Salah Darghouth                           Ngozi Okonjo-lweala
Team Leader at ICR:   Tijan M. Sallah                          Tijan M. Sallah
ICR Primary Author:   Tijan M. Sallah
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HlUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's development objectives were realistic and achievable, except for the monitoring and



evaluation component which was ambitious. The project was originally envisaged as part of a hybrid
operation under the general name, the agricultural sector adjustment loan (ASAL). Subsequently in 1993,
in the interest of reducing complexity, it was separated from the ASAL and treated as a parallel operation
to support the ASAL reforms. Initially, the project had high technical assistance (TA) and training content
but this got reduced to a critical minimum because of government unwillingness to borrow for these
purposes. The project was therefore designed to assist the Government of Jordan in the implementation of
agricultural policy adjustments and to improve services to farmers and livestock producers. Specifically, it
was to support the implementation of the ASAL water sector reform component by rehabilitating farm
irrigation turnouts, training staff, and supporting operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation
system in the Jordan Valley and installing water meters and other control devices on wells in the Jordan
Highlands to enable measurement and sustainable management of groundwater; it was to also strengthen
agricultural research and extension capacities to support poor farmers affected by adjustment, and build
monitoring capacity in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to enable the tracking of the effects of
adjustment on vulnerable farming systems and to enable corrective action.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the project were to: (a) Improve Water Measurement and
Management in the Jordan Valley, and provide support for O&M in the Jordan Valley Authority; (b)
Improve Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control in the Jordan Highlands and equipment support for
the authority that has jurisdiction over it, the Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ); (c) Provide capacity
building support for Agricultural Research; (d) Provide technical support for Agricultural Extension; and
(e) Provide technical support for the Ministry of Agricultural in Monitoring and Evaluation of the effects of
adjustment, with special focus on vulnerable populations and systems.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                             Cost                 Rating
WATER MEASUREMENT AND MANAGEMENT
IN THE JORDAN VALLEY, AND SUPPORT FOR
JORDAN VALLEY AUTHORITY (JVA);                               $6,000,000.00;            S
GROUNDWATER BASIN MONITORING AND CONTROL,
AND SUPPORT FOR
WATER AUTHORITY OF JORDAN (WAJ);                       $3,600,000.00;              HS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH;                                  $  900,000.00;              S
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION;                                 $  200,000.00;            S
MONITORING AND EVALUATION;                              $ 700,000.00;               S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The project was peer reviewed by an irrigation engineer and an
- 2 -



institutional specialist from identification to appraisal. It was also thoroughly reviewed by the Senior
Operations Adviser in the RVP's front office at the time and by the country department's Project Adviser
and Country Director.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemnent of objective:
Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory because the project, amongst many other
interventions, succeeded in helping raise the overall conveyance system efficiency in the Jordan Valley to
80%. The rehabilitation of the FTAs in three areas of the Jordan Valley has helped reduced
unaccounted-for and unauthorized water losses, improved distribution efficiency, and the installation of the
FTAs within each farmer's farm has helped ensure accountability and sustainability. O&M equipment
provided under the project is helping promote the durability of the public irrigation infrastructure, which is
now lined and automated along the 1 10 km-long King Abdullah Canal and its minor open canals are now
converted to pressurized pipes. Public agricultural research has been strengthened with the establishment
of an MIS linking the six field agricultural research centers with headquarters, allowing for quick sharing
of information, and also linking headquarters with agricultural research in the rest of the world through the
internet. Significant post-graduate training was undertaken in the project which will reinvigorate
NCARTT.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Water Measurement and Management in the Jordan Valley (Base Cost US$5.15 million; IBRD
Financed).
The Staff Appraisal Report (Technical Annex) envisaged support to improve water measurement
and management of the piped irrigation system in the Jordan Valley. As part of the 1994 Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL), Government was to strengthen demand management in the Jordan Valley
by introducing higher irrigation charges. Increases in charges were only to be fair and effective as a
demand management tool if delivered water was correctly measured and billed. The project provided for
investments to complete the ongoing program to install secure meters and water flow control devices on
irrigation turn-outs. The project was envisaged to finance the rehabilitation of 1,3 50 improved farm unit
outlets and installation of about 3,450 water control devices (e.g., outlet pressure regulators, flow
regulators, flow meters, gate valves, flow meters) and protection boxes for 1,350 outlets in areas covering
7,500 ha in the Jordan Valley (i.e., Zarqa Triangle, 18 km Extension and Northeast Ghor. Support was
also to be provided through: (i) training and techical assistance of JVA staff; (ii) strengthening water and
soil testing in JVA laboratories, and (iii) improving O&M efficiency in the Jordan Valley. The project
fully achieved the appraisal targets under this component. Because of changed needs, 2,150 single and
double FTAs (against the 1,350 envisaged at appraisal) serving 2,150 farm units in the three irrigation
areas of 7,500 ha were procured and installed under the project. Three variation orders were issued: (i) to
separate the double FTAs in the three irrigation areas and relocate them within the perimeters of farmers'
fields to assign individual farmer accountability and prevent meter tampering; (ii) to procure and install
1,727 additional flow limiting devices; and (iii) to finance the transportation of the supervision team. The
rehabilitation of the FTAs has helped improve the accuracy of measuring delivered water to farmers,
thereby reducing the losses to JVA of the quantity of unaccounted-for water or unauthorized water used.
The separation of double FTAs and transferring them within the border of the farm units has enabled
farmers to be responsible for damages, with consequent repairs and damages to be charged to beneficiaries,
thereby improving system sustainability. As for the steel protection boxes envisaged at appraisal, also two
variation orders were issued. First, the steel protection boxes envisaged in the 18 km Extension and Zarqa
- 3 -



Triangle were changed to concrete protection boxes with steel cover. In the Northeast Ghor, the size and
shape of 56 steel protection boxes were changed.
Under this component, also, some field vehicles and earth-moving equipment (e.g., backhoe
excavators, wheel loaders) were provided, which has helped to strengthen the O&M of the irrigation
system, and some 28 laboratory equipment of various types were provided, which helped strengthen water
and soil testing. Office equipment, such as 14 computers, 11 printers, I scanner, 1 plotter computer
software, and a photocopying machine were procured under the project to strengthen the irrigation
directorates field work. The project rehabilitated the electro-mechanical parts of the booster pump stations
located in the 14.5 km extension, which has enabled the commissioning of irrigation works in the area using
water from the newly completed Karamah Dam. Some capacity building was carried out for JVA through:
(i) training of 5 of its staff for one week each on participatory irrigation management in Antalya, Turkey;
(ii) another training of 3 staff for one week each on participatory irrigation management in Hyderabad,
India; and (iii) training of 3 staff for two weeks each on simulation of irrigation canals in France. JVA
staff training in participatory irrigation management, in particular, will prove valuable as JVA moves to
pilot water users associations to manage the system downstream of pumping stations. Because of unutilized
funds arising from efficiency gains in procurement, two critical studies were carrried out under the project
for the rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes, which have now been completed and would be
important inputs in the follow-on Jordan Valley Development Project: One is the feasibility study for the
rehabilitation of the Southern Ghors Irrigation Scheme, and the other is the study for the rehabilitation of
the Hisban-Kafrein Irrigation System.
Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control, and Support for Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ)
(Base Cost US$3.06 million, KfW Financed).
As part of the adjustment program (ASAL), the SAR envisaged Government to adopt a program of
moving towards sustainable groundwater abstraction nationwide, and implementing a full program to meter
all groundwater production, supply and usage. This component was envisaged to support monitoring,
management, and control carried out by WAJ through its existing ten Basin Protection Units (BPUs). This
component, parallel-financed by KfW under its Sector Program Water Supply H, has been
substantially achieved. Please refer to Attachment I for details of the procurements under the KfW Sector
Loan III. As envisaged at appraisal, the project succeeded in providing and installing: 2,300 flow meters
on tubewells in the Jordan Highlands; 30 automatic groundwater level recorders and 25 electric water level
meters to improve monitoring of groundwater levels; 20 portable conductivity and pH meters to improve
water quality monitoring; 5 global positioning systems to help determine tubewell coordinates; 15 PC and
laptop computers and miscellaneous equipment, including office furniture for the BPUs; and 12 field
vehicles. Ten urgently needed water tankers were also provided which enabled WAJ to improve water
delivery efficiencies to high areas of Amman during peak demand periods of the summer months. The
tankers facilitated spatial transfer of water from low to high value uses, and serviced areas of Amman
unserved by the small private tanker market. The local training component for WAJ staff in computers,
remote sensing and GIS envisaged at appraisal have been completed, but the overseas training was not
carried out because of inadequate funds. The overall impact of this component is that groundwater
monitoring and control in the highlands has improved considerably, and the installation of water
measurement devices has enabled WAJ to impose penalties/fines on owners of private wells who exceed
permitted abstraction levels.
Agricultural Research (Base Cost US$0.79; IBRD Financed).
Public agricultural research was found at appraisal to be inadequate, with farmers receiving little
- 4 -



benefit. Relatively well-off farmers had access to private research and maintain regular contact with
foreign growers and breeders from foreign seed companies. They conduct their own variety trials and have
regular soil tests. Poorer farmers, however, who operate open field systems and grow cereals and
vegetables have little access to technical information and rely on neighbors for tips on varieties, fertilizer
and pesticide use. Under the ASAL, relative prices for inputs and outputs were to change, creating
challenges and pressures for farmers, especially those in vulnerable farming systems. Strengthening public
agricultural research was important for assisting these category of poor farmers in particular, including
small-scale rainfed crop farmers in the Highlands, the marginal livestock herders and female-headed
agricultural households. Under the project, the main public agricultural research institution, National
Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT), was to be strengthened by: (a)
improving its management through recruitment of an experienced international management specialist to
assist NCARTT to implement its new research strategy, guiding and motivating staff towards a stronger
farmer focus, improving research planning and budgeting capacity, reactivating the six regional
agricultural research centers (RASCs) and strengthening research-extension linkages; (b) implementing a
national workshop with all concerned stakeholders to launch the national research strategy; and (c)
organizing a course on integrated pest management; and providing 50 staff months of specialized
post-graduate training for research staff in priority areas, such as irrigation agronomy and dryland farming.
Although modified, this component of strengthening public agricultural research has been
substantially achieved. With the appointment of a new, dynamic management at NCARTT immediately
after the project became effective, the appraisal proposal to hire long-term international technical assistance
in the form of a management specialist to assist NCARTT management was deemed no longer necessary.
Instead, this component was modified to deal with pressing public agricultural research priorities, and the
corresponding funds were directed to the establishment of a computerized data base and management
information system or MIS (comprising 20 personal computers and two servers, software, and staff
training), which linked the six field agricultural research centers in Ramtha, Rabba, Deir Alla, Khaldia,
Shoubak and Mushaqer with NCARTT headquarters in Baqa. This successfully established MIS has
enabled NCARTT's field and headquarter's researchers to share research information and carry out quick
diagnosis and response to farmers on-farm problems. The MIS has also enhanced considerably NCARTT's
connectivity to world agricultural research centers (e.g., the CGIAR system) through the intemet and to
individual researchers world wide through electronic mail. Through the internet, NCARTT is able to
access valuable research and technologies for adaptation for local use by Jordanian farmers, and to submit
local research results to scientific journals. Furthermore, the remaining funds under this component were
directed at: (i) post-graduate training of 18 young NCARTT staff in priority research areas to replace the
aging research staff at NCARTT lost through normal attrition; and (ii) technology transfer through
demonstration of agricultural technical packages. Of the 18 NCARTT researchers who have benefitted
from the post-graduate training (Ph.D.) at the University of Jordan for over a period of two years, one
dropped out. The remaining 17 have completed their studies and prepared doctoral theses on topics
consistent with project development objectives and the needs of NCARTT towards serving Jordanian
agriculture. These researchers have contractual commitment to return to NCARTT upon completion. With
the technology transfer demonstration packages: (i) on-farm level fertigation practices in the Jordan Valley
(which sought to optimize on fertilizer and water use), (ii) utilization of improved agricultural by-products
for blocks in feeding small ruminants (which sought to convert crop residues into animal feedblocks); (iii)
promotion of animal feed resources and farming systems capable of combating desertification (which
sought to stabilize local fodder and forage resources and control erosion and stabilize land); and (iv)
irrigation management system for the Jordan Valley (which sought to develop a package of irrigation
management system to provide farmers with information on when to irrigate and how much to maximize
on-farm water use efficiency), all of them have been successfully piloted, although the interventions have
been too little to have any substantial impact and farmer uptake of technologies have been slow. As a
result, due to pressing project deadline, the unutilized US$227, 773 was reallocated from the research
-5 -



component for use in critical feasibility studies for JVA (see above) and about US$50,000 was utilized for
procuring some critically needed GIS equipment and software by NCART to enable geographical mapping
of NCARTT's five major research programs of rainfed agriculture, irrigated agriculture, low
rainfall/rangeland areas, water and environment. The GIS system is in place and is operational.
Agricultural Extension (Base Cost US$250,000, IBRD Financed; US$1.45 million GTZ financed).
The SAR envisaged strengthening public extension to serve poorer farmers not served by private
information networks through the framework of a formal extension strategy to be developed under the
project. The strategy was to clarify the mandate of extension , the task distribution between the DOEI and
NCARTT, and the role of the public extension service. The GTZ-financed component has been fully
achieved. The technical assistance that was envisaged at appraisal (3 staff years of international TA, 3
staff years of local TA, 1.5 staff years of short-term international TA) and supporting equipment and
vehicles have been provided and resulted in the formulation of a national extension policy and strategy and
the piloting of extension methodologies at the community level in two project areas. The IBRD-financed
component has also been fully achieved. Short-term specialized training was undertaken in Turkey and
Egypt on extension planning, which benefitted about 94 public extension staff. Special training in
extension communication methods were also carried out locally with the participation of a larger number of
extension staff. Some office and audio-visual equipment were also provided.
Monitoring and Evaluation (Base Cost US$0.66 million, GTZ financed).
This component was envisaged to reinforce the statistical and monitoring capacity of the Ministry
of Agriculture by undertaking special surveys with a baseline survey before introduction of the ASAL
reforms, and subsequent semi-annual passes. Two complementary sets of surveys were to be carried out:
(i) crop budget surveys to track the evolution of gross margins for key geographical areas and farming
systems; and (ii) household income surveys to follow a representative sample of farm households in key
geographical areas and farming systems, with a special focus on vulnerable populations and systems. Case
studies were to also provid- policy makers with insights into the impacts of adjustment. This component
has been partially achieved. Quantitative and qualitative surveys were carried out and published for each
of the years 1996-1999 and published. The results of the surveys showed agricultural incomes stabilizing
at a low level because of the adjustment measures. Adjustment was determined to hit hardest the small
ruminant subsector through increases in bread and feed prices, but the higher prices have helped the cereal
growers, with consequences of expansion of cereal farming into marginal land. Increases in input prices
(following removal of input subsidies) have not yet resulted in more efficient use of inputs but simply
reduced usz of the quantity of inputs. Finally, analysis of the surveys showed that adjustment has
heightened farmer/livestock owner distrust of Government's agricultural policy making. Overall, the
implication of the work done under this component was that adjustment, though painful in the short run,
has resulted in a more realistic, internationally aligned price structure for inputs and outputs faced by
farmers and may foster a more viable agriculture in the long run. There were transition costs which
needed to be managed, but Government commitment to managing them was not forthcoming. For example,
an evaluation team, comprising three Jordanians and two German experts, in December 1997 concluded
that, whereas this component was moving in the right direction, however, there was: (i) no local staff
allocated for policy monitoring on a full time basis; (ii) little use was being made of the information
available for policy monitoring; and (iii) little information exchange was taking place even within the
Ministry of Agriculture itself. Case studies of household incomes to track the effects of adjustments on
farm households in vulnerable systems have not been carried out. Although some local capacity was built
under this component, the work on monitoring and evaluation slowed due to the departure of the
-6-



GTZ-financed consultant/expert who was leading the exercise.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable. No ERR was carried out for this project because it had initially high technical
assistance content and was part of a hybrid operation (ASAL). Late in the preparation cycle, this project
was separated from the ASAL and declared free-standing and the government insisted it was unwilling to
borrow for the TA. The TA content (which was originally the bulk of the project) was considerably
reduced resulting in a variety of small but critical investments necessary to support implementation of the
ASAL; hence this project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development has been catalytic, even though the financing under the project has been
modest. JVA staff trained under the project in participatory irrigation management would pave the way for
the proposed reforms to pilot water users associations in the Jordan Valley and would enable beneficiaries
(farmers) to be responsible for scheme management downstream of the pumping stations. Equipment
support provided to JVA has improved O&M in the Valley, and support for the Basin Protection Units in
the Highlands have improved groundwater management. The establishment of an MIS in NCARTT has
strengthened information sharing in research considerably, and post graduate training of a significant
number of staff has strengthened NCARTT as an agricultural institution, given its high researcher attrition
rates due to aging. The formulation of a national research and extension strategy under the project has
helped in defining clearly public and private sector roles, and provided a basis and a direction for future
investments. Training of extension staff has helped build limited capacity in the Department of Extension.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project experienced delays sometimes because of misunderstandings with the Bank's
disbursement department on financing percentages, especially where government wanted 100 percent
financing of imported equipment that were purchased off-the-shelf, and disbursements required that bill of
lading invoices be provided showing that taxes and duties were not being financed under Bank loan funds.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project suffered from implementation delays, resulting in the closing date being extended twice
from June 30, 1999 to June 30, 2000, and then again to December 31, 2000. Factors which caused the
delays were: (i) the internal Government rules which require long, drawn out clearances, both internally
and with the Bank, even for procurement amounts below the prior-review threshhold; and (ii) frequent
personnel changes within Government, which also adversely affected project staff. Sometimes failure to
submit audit reports to the Bank on time also caused disbursement delays.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
JVA's failure to include the project in their investment program in the first year of project
- 7 -



implementation caused delays; as a result local counterpart funds were not available on time, and bid
advertisements were delayed. NCARTT's failure to follow-up procurement clearances with the Ministry of
Planning also caused implementation delays. Project coordinator's attenuated responsibilities slowed
follow-up with the government when it was needed.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Efficient procurement (in terms of competitive rates obtained) carried out under the project resulted
in unused funds which were deployed to do more rehabilitation works than envisaged at appraisal. The
stability of the exchange rate (the stable parity between the Jordan Dinar and the US$) throughout the
implementation period helped project implementation considerably.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of project investments is likely because of the innovation made, under the
project, to assign responsibility for the bulk of the physical investments to farmers, and the human capacity
developed. The bulk of the project's investments, which is in FTAs, are likely to be sustainable because
they are now located within the perimeter of individual farmer's fann units instead of on the streets, and
individual farmers are held accountable for their own. Costs are directly recovered from the responsible
farmer when breakdowns occur. The investment, under the project, in the MIS for NCARTT and the
capacity building of its staff is also likely to be sustainable because of the strong ownership and centrality
of these investments to NCARTTs work, and the high priority these investments will continue to have in
NCARTT's recurrent budgetary allocation. However, as for the sustainability of the investments in O&M
equipment for JVA, much would depend on government's recognition and satisfaction with JVA's
perforrnance, and government's corresponding commitment to providing recurrent funding.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most investments undertaken in the project (e.g., FTAs, O&M equipment, JVA & DOEI staff
training) are all operational now. There is scope to build on this under the proposed Jordan Rift Valley
Development Project (FY2002), as government moves to modernize agriculture in the Jordan Valley,
improve conveyance and water use efficiencies, and conserve scarce water. The training of JVA staff in
participatory irrigation management would prove useful as government moves to pilot water users
association downstream of pumping stations, and reduce JVA's role to management of the main system
upstream of pumping stations and the wholesaling of bulk water. Training of research and extension
carried out under the project would help ease the transition and create the awareness to a more viable
management and use of water in the Jordan Valley.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IBRD performance in lending was satisfactory. This project was well-placed as a parallel activity
to support the implementation of the ASAL reforms and to monitor their effects. IBRD worked closely with
the Government in project design. It engaged the FAO/CP to do the project preparation, and subsequently
it provided considerable expertise in water and agriculture to design and appraise the project.
7.2 Supervision:
-8 -



IBRD performance in supervision was also satisfactory. IBRD maintained stability and continuity in
the composition of the task team throughout project implementation. Frequent supervisions (at least
semi-annually) were carried out, although limited resources required that all relevant skills were not always
represented. IBRD did frequent follow-up with the implementing agencies, resolving problems, and
expediting procurements and disbursements. In the past two years, JVA, on their own, and NCARTT,
through IBRD support under the project, established an e-mail connection, which was used frequently to
follow-up on project issues between formal supervision missions and telephone calls.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall IBRD performance was satisfactory. IBRD extended the project twice to enable completion of
critical outstanding activities.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation was satisfactory. The Government provided competent staff to
work with Bank counterparts during preparation, and there was adequate cooperation in the identification
of priorities, provision of data, discussion of issues and alternatives, and carrying out of field visits.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, Government implementation performance was satisfactory, although implementation delays
were experienced. The project was declared effective on May 19, 1995 almost as planned. Government
also cooperated in the provision of independent audit reports and complied generally with all of the legal
covenants.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agencies's performance were generally satisfactory. Although there were
procurement delays and lagged follow-up, JVA, NCARTT, and DOEI all took action to support the
implementation of their components.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Absenting the delays in implementation, borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a) Decentralization of investments downstream of pumping stations to private operators, especially
farmers, would help promote the sustainability of the irrigation system at that level. Under the project, a
first step was made to relocate farm turnouts from their customary location on access roads to on-farm,
with individual farmers being held accountable for them and the related costs recovered directly from them
in cases of meters tampering. Apart from promoting sustainability, this approach has also reduced the
fiscal costs of these investments to JVA.
-9-



(b) Although core components of the project, such as monitoring and evaluation, have been given some
attention by government, the attention was not adequate. Although some monitoring of the effects of the
ASAL was achieved under the project and some monitoring capacity was built in the Ministry of
Agriculture, these efforts slowed and were not effectively used by the government to address the impacts of
the sector reforms on the poor.
(c) Government internal clearance requirements for amounts below the prior review threshold can cause
unnecessary procurement delays slowing down project implementation. Under the project, several
off-the-shelf small equipment procurements which were not subject to prior-review were routinely cleared
with the Government and sent to IBRD for no-objection, resulting in needless delays and transaction costs.
Largely because of these delays, the project closing date had to be extended twice.
(d) Implementing a project in Jordan across several ministries can be unduly difficult and unwieldy. Under
this project, because it was an agriculture technical support project and the project management was in the
Ministry of Agriculture but with the bulk of the financing going to the Ministry of Water and Irrigation,
there was always uneasiness in agriculture that they were playing second fiddle.
(e) Separating investment projects from adjustment operations rather than going for a hybrid, as originally
envisaged, has advantages because it allows one operation not to hold up the other, given investment
operations have generally longer implementation time horizons.
(f) Flexibility in implementation has advantages, allowing for adjustment in the investments supported by
the project, provided they still fitted with the project's development objectives. The investments under the
agricultural research component were modified consistent with the project's objectives to achieve greater
impact than originally envisaged.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
Borrower's Comments on the ICR
The World Bank
Washington D. C. 20433
USA
Fax No. (202) 477-1374
Att: Mr. Tijan Sallah (Task Team Leader)
Subject: Agricultural Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Dear Mr. Tijan:
Reference is made to your E-Mail dated Feb. 15th, 2001 concerning the Implementation
Completion Report of the ASTSUP.
We have reviewed the ICR of the Jordan Agricultural Sector Technical Support Project and
believe it documents the project's achievements. We therefore find it satisfactory after taking into
- 1 0 -



consideration the attached comments.
Please find attached herewith the government brief report, which documenting the project's
achievements from the borrower's prospective.
Best regards
Secretary General
Eng. Zafer Al-Alem
Cc: Ministry of Planing
Cc: S. G. Assist/Irrigation and Drainage
Cc: S.G. Assist/Finance & admin.
Cc: Director of Irrigation
Cc: Head of Water Studies Division
Cc: Project coordinator/Dr. M. Nejedawi/MOA
- 11 -



BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
l-Back2round
Jordan is a small country, its total area is around 89.3 thousand km2, the total Population
is 4.9 million out of which 22% area rural and 78% are urban.
Agriculture plays an important role in the Jordanian economy, being major supplier of
food, where Jordan is self sufficient in vegetables, fruits, poultry meat and eggs. Agricultural
exports share is around 20% of the total export, agriculture production contribution to GDP is
around 3.2%, but when backward and forward linkages are added, the contribution of the
agribusiness reach around 28% of the GDP. Agricultural sector employs around 6% of the labor
force.
Since mid 1989 the Government of Jordan has adopted an Economic Adjustment Program
supported by the IMF and the World Bank to ensure stability in the economy and aiming at
reducing budget deficit, flexible exchange rate, trade liberalization and promotion of private sector
and limit government participation in production activities.
Food import bill in 1995 was around US $ 590 million, while in the first six months of
1996 has been reached US $ 550 million compared to US $ 325 million for the same period of
1995 with increase of around 70%. This increase is attributed to the increase in the international
food prices.
Water is scarce in Jordan, the water available for all purposes is around one million cubic
meter out of which mounted 700 million are used to irrigate 77 thousand hectare, in-addition to
supply drinking water to around 2.9 million heads of sheep and goat.
Jordanian agriculture is faced with a group of challenges and constraints, the most
important ones are:
Irrigation water use efficiency
The widening gap between the food import and export bill;
Natural resource degradation is another problem and challenge which causes low fertility;
Poor production quality and decrease in farmers income;
Weak agricultural institutions and inappropriate laws and legislation; and
Inconsistent agricultural policies and political vulnerability of export.
The government has adopted an adjustment program in mid-1989 supported by the IMF
and the World Bank to ensure stability in the economy. The major adjustments and reforms which
have been implemented include: 1) A series of fiscal adjustment to reduce the budget deficit; 2) A
flexible exchange rate policy stance in line with market forces; 3) A number of measures to reduce
tariff protection and impose trade incentives regime; 4) Structural reform measures in the energy,
telecommunication and agriculture fields (including water) sectors; 5) Measures to limit
governmental participation in production activities.
Also the government has recently adopted a new investment law and package of investment
incentives.
During the last five years, the Government of Jordan, through the Ministry of Agriculture,
has done major work toward developing an agricultural policy for the country, assisted by FAO,
- 12-



GTZ and USAID. The Agricultural Policy Charter has been formulated and an Agricultural Policy
Implementation Program has been developed. Parallel to that, the government was negotiating the
terms of an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan with the World Bank.
2-Proiect Obiectives and Description
2-1   Project Objectives
The objectives of the project are to assist the government in the implementation of
agricultural policy adjustment and to improve services to farmers and livestock producers. The
project would provide support for the implementation of measures to protect and optimize use of
surface and ground water resources. It would also provide technical assistance to build capacities
in agricultural research and extension institutions to improve services to producers, particularly
those who are most vulnerable during adjustment. Finally, it would develop monitoring and
evaluation capacity to enable the effects of adjustment to be tracked.
2-2    Project Description
2-2-1 Jordan Valley Authority Component
The JVA component which amounted to about US$ 5.48 was constituted of the following:
-     Rehabilitation of exposed Farm Turnout Assemblies (FTA's) Project: this project
aimed at rehabilitation of about 2150 farm units in three irrigation projects namely (18-km
extension, Zarqa triangle and Northeast Ghor project). The rehabilitation of the FTA's included
the separation of double FTA's and transferring all of the FTA's within the border of the farm
unit. Also, it consists of replacement of major components of the FTA (gate valves, pressure
regulators, flow limiting device, spools and flow meters). In order to prevent the vandalism by the
farmers' concrete boxes and steel covers were installed on every FTA.
*     The Rehabilitation of Pumping stations in 14.5 km extension project: This project
includes the rehabilitation of Electro-Mechanical parts of the booster pumps located the 14.5 km
extension project.
*     Study of Rehabilitation of Southern Ghors Irrigation project (stage I): The
consultant "Mott MacDonald in association with Jordanian Engineering Center" conducted this
study. The main components of this study are conducting the feasibility study of the project,
preparation of final design and tender documents.
*     Study of Rehabilitation of Hisban-Kafrein irrigation Project: The consultant
"Consolidated Consultants for Engineering and Environment" conducted this study. The main
components of this study are conducting the feasibility study of the project, preparation of final
design and tender documents.
*     Procurement of Operation & Maintenance Equipment: In order to support the
operation and maintenance works in the Jordan Valley, earth moving and maintenance equipment
were procured such as: (bulldozer, wheel loader, backhoes, excavator, flatbed truck with crane,
stone picker, drain flushing machine and mobile workshops).
*     Procurement of Laboratory Equipments: 28 laboratory equipment were procured in
- 13 -



order to strengthen the water and soil testing.
*     Procurement of flow meters: In order to replace some broken flow meters in the north of
Jordan Valley, about 450 flow meters and spare parts were procured.
*     Procurement of Standby Electric Generator: JVA laboratories situated in the Jordan
Valley suffer from the electric power cut-off, which cause failure of electronic equipment. The
procurement of standby electric generator was very necessary.
*     Procurement of Computers and accessories: 14 computers, 11 printers,1 scanner, 1
plotter, computer software and 1 photocopying machine were procured.
*     Training of JVA staff: the following training courses were conducted:
Training of 5 JV1-s staff for one week each on participatory irrigation management in
Antalya, Turkey.
*.    Training of 3 JVA staff for one week each on participatory irrigation management in
Hyderabad, India.
*.    Training of 3 JVA staff for two weeks each on simulation of Irrigation Canals in France.
2.2.2  NCARTT:
The National Center for Agriculture Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT) had invested
in the following six activities. These activities had served the benefit of the center by improving
the infra structure (in terms of transportation, lab and field equipment and computes), research
capabilities; in addition to improving the qualification of researchers potential to higher level of
education.
1- Scholarships: 18 researchers from NCARTT, with M.Sc. degree were accepted at the
University of Jordan as Ph.D. students, at the time being 6 of those had already finished their
study and working at NCARTT as Ph.D. candidate. 10 are preparing their thesis to be submitted,
and will get the degree within few months, and two persons were not able to pass the qualification
exam, and returned back to their previous position.
2- Feeding Blocks Project: The project serves the technology transfer mission of NCARTT,
where three units for making feed blocks were purchased in addition to other relevant raw
materials and computers, farmers were trained to the use of this new technology through field
days and demonstrations done by the project personals of NCARTT staff. Now, this technology is
adapted though NGO and is widely spread among farmers.
3- Fertigation Project: This project also were oriented for the direct beneficiary of the farmer,
where several new irrigation equipment with new fertilizers (Venturi, and Hydraulic) had been
installed in the farms field as demonstration sites. The farmers accepted the idea of this new
technology, where it minimizes the use of fertilizers, water and consequently minimize product
input cost. At the same time this technology will serve the benefit of our environment in minimize
the use of excessive fertilizers that usually end in the streams and drinking water aquifers i.e.
minimize water pollution and exploitation. At the time being at least 15% of the farmers are using
this new technology.
4-Irrigation Management Information System (IMIS): NCARTT had established Irrigation
Management Information System project (IMIS) to improve irrigation water management in the
- 14 -



agriculture sector for saving water and improving agriculture production and quality, and
minimize environmental hazardous. The Irrigation Management Information System project can
provide irrigation personnel (farmers) with real time estimates of irrigation requirements and
scheduling. This will help to initiate and sustain a technology transfer program concerning the
issues of when to irrigate and how much irrigation water on-farm level to maximize water use
efficiency. Beneficiaries of this project are:
1- Planners:
-Water allocation will be done on more robustic bases. Thus provides planners with more
accurate and detail information regarding irrigation scheduling and irrigation water
requirement for major crops in the JV.
-Supply demand policy will be formulated.
2-    Water Sector:
-Increase water use efficiency in agricultural, which will allow releasing water to other
pressing needs.
3-    Agriculture Sector:
-Increase crop production by increasing the water use efficiency.
4-    Farmers:
-Reduction of input cost which is translated to a higher return.
5-    National Economy:
5-Information System: Updating the computer center at NCARTT with new and fast computers
has a significant effect on the potential of the researchers to analyze and write their research
results, at the time being this computer center is highly equipped with computer lap tops,
scanners, laser and color printers, in addition to a huge server that allow all the researchers at
NCARTT to work easily and use the Internet.
6-Transportation: A car in agriculture research is a must. Due to spread of researches all over
the kingdom, researches capability to serve all farmers had enhanced when transportation vehicles
are available. Now NCARTT had a daily program for researchers at the center to visit all other
stations and visa-versa, this had kept all researches in contact with their field experiments and
with the farmers. Now NCARTT is equipped with good transportation capability of 2 buses for
the employees transports form and to work, and one bus is allocated for visitors and trainees, and
workshops guests movement. 7 4WD vehicles for researcher travel to their experiment fields and
visit the farmers. 2 Vans for groups of researches transportation. And one 4WD car for the
director general, assistants, administration staff, and VIP visitors. This in addition to the previous
vehicles present form the past.
2.2.3 Ministry of agriculture
Monitoring and Evaluation (Base Cost US$ 2,5 million, GTZ financed). This component was
envisaged to reinforce the statistical and monitoring capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture by
undertaking special surveys with a baseline survey before introduction of the ASAL reforms, and
subsequent semi-annual passes. Six complementary sets of surveys (4 quantitative and 2
qualitative) were carried out: (i) crop budget surveys to track the evolution of gross margins for
key geographical areas and farming systems; and (ii) household income surveys to follow a
- 15-



representative sample of farm households in key geographical areas and fanning systems, with a
special focus on vulnerable populations and systems. Case studies were to also provide policy
makers with insights into the impacts of adjustment. This component has been fully achieved.
Quantitative and qualitative surveys were carried out and published for each of the years
1996-2000 and published. The results of the surveys showed agricultural incomes stabilizing at a
low level because of the adjustment measures. Adjustment was determined to hit hardest the small
ruminant sub sector through increases in bread and feed prices, but the higher prices have helped
the cereal growers, with consequences of expansion of cereal farming into marginal land.
Increases in input prices (following removal of input subsidies) have not yet resulted in more
efficient use of inputs but simply reduced use of the quantity of inputs. Finally, analysis of the
surveys showed that adjustment has heightened farmer/livestock owner distrust of Government's
agricultural policy making. Overall, the implication of the work done under this component was
that adjustment, though painful in the short run, has resulted in a more realistic, internationally
aligned price structure for inputs and outputs faced by farmers and may foster a more viable
agriculture in the long run. There were transition costs, which needed to be managed, and
Government commitment to managing them had to be mobilized. In December 1997, an
evaluation team, comprising three Jordanians and two German experts, concluded that, whereas
this component was moving in the right direction, however: (i) staff had to be allocated for policy
monitoring on a full time basis; (ii) information available for policy monitoring had to be better
used; and (iii) more information exchange had to take place within the Ministry of Agriculture
itself and with concerned institutions. The evaluation team suggested carrying out studies of
household incomes to track the effects of adjustments on farm households in vulnerable systems.
As a consequence of these observations in 1997, additional local survey and monitoring capacity
was built up in the MoA in the years 1998-1999. Within the framework of the reorganization of
the Ministry of Agriculture an organizational unit dedicated to monitoring and data analysis was
created. One to two newsletters were produced yearly to inform the decision-makers and
interested public on the results of the surveys. Moreover, the cooperation with the DOS was
enhanced in joint surveys and workshops. The MoA staff is at present preparing a proposal for
policy adjustments based on the results of the surveys and it is planned to institutionalize the
monitoring of farn incomes on a national level by introducing agricultural accounting.
2.2.4 Agricultural Extension-Ministry of Agriculture
This component designed to support public extension, through the department of extension
and information (DOEI). This component was co-financed with GTZ (base cost US$ 1.45 Million
equivalent) and the WB (base cost US$ 250,000). Support was provided to government by GTZ
to formulate a national extension strategy, and extension methodologies were piloted in the field
in three selected areas. GTZ also provided 30 staff months of training to extension staff and 47
staff months of locally recruited technical assistance.
World Bank provided support for short-term local extension training to extension agents
and farmers in Deir Alla, and some overseas training in Turkey and Egypt on extension planning.
About 94 staff benefited from the overseas training. The bank has also provided equipment
support (Field, office, audio visual, two computers) and vehicles for extension staff.
- 16 -



3     Bank Performance
The Bank contributed to the success of the project, through timely supervision of the project, and
by offering professional advice to the Ministries benefiting from the loan. The appraisal missions
helped in taking many supportive decisions to enhance the procurement of goods and services.
The Bank sent the supervision missions to the country at appropriate intervals and kept close
contact with the implementing agency. As such, the Bank managed to play a constructive role in
solving implementation problems, familiarizing the different governmental agencies with the Bank
procurement policies.
4     Borrower Performance
After the initial delay in project effectiveness due to budget reasons, the project implementation
has improved and the benefiting ministries gained experience with ICB tendering procedure and
mobilized its resources to focus on project implementation. For example, the staff of these
ministries prepared all specifications and tender documents. Also, they follow up of the
implementation of the procurement and conducting studies and consultancy services.
It is commendable that the borrower was receptive to the supervision missions technical advice
and agreed to adopt flexible approach in procurement of goods and services within the project.
Such as: procurement of goods and selecting the consultants conducting the studies of
Rehabilitation of Southern Ghors Irrigation Project (stage I), Rehabilitation of Hisban-Kafrein
Irrigation Project and rehabilitation of booster pumps in 14.5 km extension irrigation project.
5     Project Relationship
The Bank and the Borrower maintained a cordial and good working relationship throughout the
project implementation. The excellent relationship resulted in an expanded project scope and
agreement to undertake a follow-on project.
6     Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from the project are the following:
1.    The rehabilitation of FTA's and replacement of damaged flow meters and transferring the
FTA from the access road to on-farm resulted in correct reading of flow meters and the farmer is
responsible for any meter tampering and the cost of repairs or replacement will be recovered from
the farmer.
2.    The staff of Ministries involved in the project gained good experience in preparation of
specification and tender documents. This experience will enable the staff of Ministries involved to
be more effective in future to deal with other loans or grants.
- 17-



(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Actual Disbursements From Loan By Fiscal Year
Fiscal Year            Amount ('000 USD)
1995                           252.70
1996                           1,331.82
1997                          2,644.74
1998                           818.27
1999                            624.36
2000                           225.25
Total                         5,897.14
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indcator/Matrlx                    Prjeted in last PSR                   AcxU_Latst Estmate
Improve Water Measurement and                                               Water Measurement improved in Northeast
Management in the Jordan Valley                                             Ghor, 18km Extension and Zarqa Triangle;
Helped, amongst others, improve
conveyance efficiency in the Jordan Valley by
upt to 80%.
Improve Groundwater Monitoring and Control                                  Groundwater management improved with
support to the Basin Protection Units and
metering of wells.
Strengthen Agricultural Research                                            Agricultural Research strengthened with
establishment of MIS, improving information
sharing, and the training of staff.
Strengthen Agricultural Extension                                           Agricultural Extension strategy prepared, and
staff trained.
Improve Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)                                     A start was made with improving M&E
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActuaULatost Estimato
(i) 1,350 FTAs for water measurement and                                    2,150 single and double FTAs and 1,727
management installed with protection boxes                                  additional flow limiting devices were
and steels covers and are operational;                                      procured and installed, serving 2,150 farm
covering 7,500 ha. in the Jordan Valley;                                    units covering 7,500 ha. in the Jordan Valley.
(ii) O&M equipment provided and operational                                 Some O&M equipment, including
in Jordan Valley;                                                           earth-moving ones (i.e., backhoe excavators,
wheel loaders), have been provided
(iii) Electro-mechanical parts of the booster                               The Electro-mechanical parts of the booster
pumping stations rehabilitated in the 14.5 km                               pumping stations have been rehabilitated in
Extension to enable commissioning of                                        the 14.5 km Extension, which enabled the
irrigation works in the area using waters from                              commissioning of irrigation works in the area
the newly completed Karama Dam;                                             at the time of completion using waters from
the newly completed Karama Dam.
However, because of the recent droughts,
the Dam has been without water and the
pumping stations not in use.
(iv) Study for rehabilitation of South Ghor                                 Study for rehabilitation of South Ghor
Irrigation network (total area of 4,700 ha)                                 Irrigation network (total area of 4,700 ha) has
completed;                                                                  been completed.
(v) Feasibility study for rehabilitation of the                             Feasibility study for rehabilitation of the
Hishban-Kafrein Irrigation system ( covering                                Hishban-Kafreign Irrigation System (total
1,924 hectares) updated.                                                    area of 1,924 ha) has been updated.
Groundwater Basin Monitoring and Control
(i) Provision of 2,300 flow meters for                                      (i) 2,300 flow meters for tubewelis provided
tubewells in the Highlands
(ii) Improve Monitoring of groundwater basins                               (ii) Basin Protection Units provided
through support of Basin Protection Units                                   equipment support & groundwater monitoring
improved.
(iii) Provision of 10 water tankers                                         (iii) 10 water tankers provided.
(iv) Training of staff                                                      (iv) Local training of WAJ staff carried out;
overseas training not carried out.
Agricultural Research
- 19-



(i) Hire International TA to strengthen                                           (i) A Management Information System (MIS)
NCARTT management & adopt research                                                has been established, linking 6 regional
| strategy                                                                         agricultural research centers to NCARTT
headquarters and linking NCARTT extemally
to world agricultural research centers
through e-mail.
(ii) Conduct workshop to launch nabonal                                           (ii) 17 NCARTT researchers have pursued
agricultural research strategy                                                    the Ph.D. at the University of Jordan on
relevant agricultural topics and with contract
to return to strengthen NCARTT.
(iii) Organize 10-day local seminar on                                            (iii) Four technology transfer agricultural
Integrated Pest Management (IPM)                                                  packages piloted.
Agricultural Extension
(i) Provide TA to develop national extension                                      (i) National extension strategy developed.
strategy
(ii) Carry out pilot extension in 2 sites                                         (ii) Pilot extension carried out
(iii) Train and provide study tours for                                           (iii) Extension training carried out in Antalya,
extension staff                                                                   Turkey and Egypt.
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million    US$ million
Water Measurement and Management in the Jordan Valley   5.15
(IBRD)
Groundwater Basin Moritoring and Control, and Support
for the Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ), KfW-financed
Agricultural Research (IBRD)                            0.79
Agricultural Extension (IBRD); also partly GTZ-financed  0.25
Monitoring and Evaluation, GTZ financed
Total Baseline Cost                                     6.19            0.00
Physical Contingencies                                 0.34
Price Contingencies                                    0.07
Total Project Costs                6.60            0.00
Total Financing Required                6.60             0.00
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.                      .            ~~~~~~~~~Pa teretge of Appraisa
Component             Appraisal Estimate         ActUal(Latest Estimate
:Bank    Govt      CoF.      Bank    .Govt.    CoF.   lak  Govt  CoF.
Water Measurement and   5.15                                                      0.0
Management in the Jordan
Valley
Groundwater Basin                          3.06                                                0.0
Monitoring and Control,
and Support for WAJ
Agricultural Research   0.79                                                      0.0
Agricultural Extension  0.25                1.45                                  0.0          0.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                   0.66                                               0.0
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable. See explanation in para 4.3 of main text.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
IStage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty              Perftnance Rating
(e.g. 2 EconomistsS I FMS, c.)       Implementatio    Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1992                     FAO/CP                               S              S
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 6, 1994               9   1 Irrigation Engineer, 1              S              S
Agricurist, I Agribusiness
Specialist, 1 Environment
Specialist, 2 Economists,
1 Extension Specialist, 1
Livestock Specialist, I
Financial Analyst (some
members of this team were
shared with the ASAL team
Supervision
May 19,                      3   1 Economist, I Irrigation            S              S
1995-July 31,                    Engineer, 1 Agriculturalist
1997
July 31, 1997-Dec.               I Economist, I Irrigation            S               S
31, 2000                         Engineer
ICR
January 2001                2    1 Economist, 1 Irrigation            S               S
Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (')
Identification/Preparation                 48                      171,400
Appraisal/Negotiation                      43                      143,300
Supervision                                80                      329,918
ICR                                         8                       40,000
Total                                     179                      684,618
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
fMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
f Sector Policies                          0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                0 H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
Z Institutional Development                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Environmental                            C H  0 SU 0 M  O N  @ NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Other (Please specify)            0 H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
O Private sector development                   H  O SU 0 M  O N  * NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)                   0 H  C SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
* Lending                                             OHSOS OU OHU
* Supervision                                         O HS * S  OU  OHU
Overall                                                 HS * S   OU  CHU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS  CU  OHU
*  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  C  U  C HU
'X Implementation agency performance                  OHS   S   OCU   CHU
E Overall                                             OHS OS  OU  OHU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 26 -



