Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16734
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit 1880-NIR)
JUNE 19, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENI'S
Currency Unit      =           CFA
US$ 1 1990             272    CFA Francs
1991        =   282    CFA Francs
1992         =   264    CFA Francs
1993             283    CFA Francs
1994             555    CFA Francs
1995             499    CFA Francs
1996             508    C'FA Francs
1997             507    C'FA Francs
WEIGhITS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   =  0.62 mile ,mi.)
1 cubic meter (mi3)   =  262 US gallon
I liter per capita per day (lcd) = 0.26 gallon per capita/day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFAF              Francs of the Communaute Financiere Africaine
DANIDA            Danish Ministry of External Affairs
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
EIB                European Investment Bank
GON                Government of Niger
IDA               International Development Agency
KFW               Krediet Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau, Germany
NEPA               Nigeria's National Electric Power Authority
NIGELEC           Niger Electric
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
Vice President:         Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director        Theodore Ahlers, CD 13
Technical Manager:      Max Pulgar-Vidal, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:       Mark Segal, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pages
Preface
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................                                                                       ii
PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN ...........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..........................................................                                               1I
A. INTRODUCTION ...........................................................1
B. STATEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................2.......2
C. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  EXPERIENCE ...........................................................5
D. IDA PERFORMANCE ..........................................................                                                                       7
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...........................................................8
F. PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINABILITY, AND FUTURE OPERATION ..........................................9
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .......................................................... 10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..........................................................                                                           12
TABLE  1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..........................................................                                                        13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS ..........................................................                                                           14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TMETABLE ..........................................................                                                               14
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............................................... 15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICTORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................... 16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..........................................................                                          17
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT ................................                                                                      - 17
TABLE 8A 1: PROJECT COSTS ................................                                                                                         17
TABLE 8A2: SUMMARY COSTS OF ELECTRIC POWER AND PETROLEUM COMPONENTS ................................ 18
TABLE 8A3: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS ..............................................................                                                     18
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ..............................................................                                                        18
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND BENEFITS ..............................................................                                              19
TABLE 9A  : INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION ..............................................................                                    20
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..............................................................                                               21
TABLE  11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ......................................................... 24
TABLE  12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..............................................................                                            24
TABLE  13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..............................................................                                                25
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION SUMMARY .............................................                                                            27
ANNEX B: LAST MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .............................................                                                                 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit 1880-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy Project in
Niger, for which IDA approved a Credit of US$31.5 million on February 23, 1988. The
Credit became effective on July 1, 1988.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1996, two years later than the original closing
date of December 31, 1994. IDA disbursed US$17.4 million or 55 percent of the Credit
amount. The last disbursement took place on May 21, 1997. Co-financing was provided
by Krediet Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), the European Investment Bank XEIB) and
DANIDA. This report was sent to the co-financiers. DANIDA, Niamey, has indicated its
agreement.
The ICR was prepared by Mark Segal, Team Leader of the Water, Urban,
Energy II (AFTU2) Infrastructure Family, Africa Region, and reviewed by Willem Floor.
The preparation of the ICR began during the project's final supervision mission,
in November/December 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation by providing information and reports useful for the
preparation of the ICR, as well as an extensive completion report.  The English
translation summary of the Borrower's completion report is included in this report. The
main text of the Borrower's report (88 pages) is in the project file. The Borrower-had no
comment on the Bank's sections of the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit 1880-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   The Niger Energy Project was part of a integrated approach to meeting energy
needs in Niger at least cost while protecting the environment. When IDA appraised the
project in 1987 the Government of Niger (GON) was focusing on developments in three
priority sub-sectors: household energy, electric power and petroleum. For household
energy, predominantly woodfuels, the Government of Niger had developed a plan to
decrease woodfuel consumption through conservation and fuel substitution while
improving the management of forest resources. In the electric power sub-sector, the
emphasis was on rehabilitating and expanding the transmission and distribution system to
meet anticipated load growth and replace higher cost diesel generation. The main
concern in the petroleum sub-sector was the development of the legal framework and
capability to accelerate private sector participation in petroleum exploration. Prior to the
Energy Project, IDA had been involved in operations for all three sub-sector: two
forestry credit for increasing woodfuel supplies, a project preparation facility (PPF) for-
evaluating petroleum prospects, and a technical assistance and engineering credit for
defining the least-cost power development program and improving power system
organization and management. Also relevant to the sector's overall development was a
Structural Adjustment Loan to redefine the role of the State in economic activities
including its role the energy sector.
PrQject Objectives
2.   The project's overall objectives were to develop a strategy to address
interconnected energy problems facing Niger's economy, support the financing the
related investments, and help improve the operational and financial performance of
NIGELEC within the context of the state enterprise reform program. The development of
a strategy required some pilot testing of operations in the household energy sector,
additional knowledge of the petroleum resources, and efforts to improve the technical and
commercial operation of NIGELEC as a state enterprise. The main project components
supporting household energy development were policy changes and investments to
improve woodfuel supply and promote the use of more efficient stoves. In the electric
power sector, the main components were the construction of new transmission capacity,
the rehabilitation of existing transmission and distribution facilities, studies for future
power system development, additional equipment, technical assistance and training, and
financial covenants concerning tariff levels and financial ratios to sustain NIGELEC's
viability. The key components for the petroleum sub-sector were equipment and



- 1ii -
consulting services to improve understanding of the resource base, preparation of an
exploration strategy, and promotion of areas for exploration and training/technical
assistance to the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.   The project partially achieved its objectives with variable performance among the
three energy sub-sectors. It achieved most of its objectives in the household energy and
petroleum sub-sectors. Although it did not achieve some important objectives for the
electric power sector, especially targets for financial performance, GON has committed to
a plan of action for power sector reform which should improve power sector operations
and financial performance. The project's objectives are sustainable but fragile. The
household energy components has established viable mechanisms to help sustain the
country's wood supply and avert shortages anticipated at appraisal. In the petroleum
sector, the project has helped GON to formulate a clear regulatory framework for
petroleum exploration and development, establish an adequate petroleum data base and
an effective domestic capability to manage the data base and negotiate petroleum
exploration contracts. In the electricity sub-sector,  further investments in sub-
transmission and distribution facilities, which the project did not finance, will be
necessary to attain the benefits of the transmission line that the project constructed. In
addition, the implementation of the planned restructuring of the power sub-sector, to
which GON and IDA have agreed, should create the necessary conditions for power
system expansion and financial sustainability of the sub-sector.
4.   The project's implementation extended two years beyond the original closing date
(December 1994) because of additional time necessary to complete important household
energy and petroleum sub-sector components. Project costs were US$30.4 million
compared to US$78.5 million estimated at appraisal. Bank disbursements on the Credit
amounted to US$17.5 million or 56 percent of the appraisal estimate. The lower project
costs and Credit disbursements resulted from the cancellation of several sub-components
for the electric power sub-sector ( Part II, Tables 8A and 8B). The major factors external
to the project which affected its implementation were: the political and social instability
resulting from the transition to democracy during 1990-92, a weakened fiscal
administration leading to GON arrears in the payment of its electricity bills, and the
devaluation of the CFA franc which increased the local currency cost of imported
substitutes for woodfuels, kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
5.   The key factors subject to Borrower and implementing agency control which had a
beneficial impact on the project were: a strong GON commitment to overcome some
legal and institutional obstacles in the implementation of the household energy sub-
component and timely completion of a new petroleum law and exploration promotion
campaign. Those factors subject to Borrower and implementing agency control that were
detrimental to the project were: inadequate efforts to rationalize the system of taxation
and transportation for woodfuel supply from non-managed forests, the lack of sufficient
commitment by GON and NIGELEC to improve the financial and institutional



- iv -
management of the power sector during the project's implementation period, the weak
management and procurement capability of NIGELEC, and the lack of a clear decision-
making process or sufficient knowledge of IDA procurement guidelines necessary for
timely completion of the petroleum documentation center. Overall the performance of
IDA in project implementation was satisfactory ( Part I, para. 23). Despite some
deficiencies, the ICR has rated the overall performance of the Borrower as satisfactory
because most of the implementation problems were in the power sector and the Borrower
made a commitment toward the end of the project to initiate a power sector restructuring
process (Part I, para. 25). The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory (Part I, para.
30).
Summary of Findings. Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
6.   The project has completed the necessary pilot operations, data collection and
institutional analysis to develop a clear strategy for integrated energy development
focused on priority actions in the household energy, petroleum and electric power sectors.
The Operational Plan outlines the key actions necessary to sustain project achievements
in each of the three sectors.  The following lessons emerge from  the project's
implementation experience and results:
a) Taking full ownership of a project requires sustaining a commitment to
implement all components, and to address any constraints early in the
project's implementation.
b) In the household energy sector, it is possible to manage natural forests on a
sustained basis with a project that includes both policy and investment
components with a flexible approach to implementation and commitment of
the Borrower to project objectives. It is important to realistically assess and
anticipate both the demand and supply-side risks associated with
implementing energy substitution programs.
c) In the electricity sub-sector, despite adequate technical design and
implementation capability, operational results are not likely to be satisfactory
in a fundamentally defective financial and institutional context.
d) In the petroleum sub-sector, it is possible that in Niger, and in other countries,
an appropriate division of responsibilities between the public and private
sectors combined with a supportive business framework will reduce non-
commercial risks sufficiently to encourage private international oil companies
to sustain the technical and commercial risks of petroleum exploration.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit 1880-NIR)
PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN
1.  In order to ensure the sustainability of project objectives achieved and to reinforce
those that need further attention, it is important for the Borrower and its implementing
agencies to adhere to the following plan, which covers the three energy sub-sectors of
concern to the Energy Project:
Household Enrgy
a) It is necessary to reinforce the achievements under Energy II and extend benefits
further in Niger through a follow-up project, which would extend over a five-year
period. Discussions with donors are underway on the basis of detailed project
documents which the project management has developed and updated over the
past several years. The fiscal mechanisms introduced under the project should be
amended to accommodate the autonomous financing of the project management
unit.
b) The focus of the second phase will be on the optimal ecological and economic
production of wood in rural areas and rural development of wood enterprises.
c) A key policy action will be to increase the tax on wood from non-managed
forests, and to improve the efficacy of the transportation/taxation control system
for this wood.
d) The next phase of the household energy project's supply components should be
coordinated with the Natural Resource Management Project of the Ministry of
Rural Development, Water and Environment. Substantive work has already been
done to achieve this coordination.
e) A restructuring of the energy efficiency and woodfuel substitution component is
necessary taking account of the results of Energy II, which showed that the
original projections of fuel wood substitution were too high, and the economic
worth of the component was less attractive than anticipated. This restructuring
should be aimed at facilitating a rapid transition of the component to autonomous
private sector operation, wherein the market place will be the key determinant of
inter-fuel substitution.



- vi -
Electric Power
f) The major problems which constrained the achievement of the project's
objectives in the electric power sector should be addressed through power sector
reform aimed at increasing the sector's autonomy and commercial viability, and
allowing private sector participation in management and operation.
g) The Bank, the Government and NIGELEC have agreed that the goals of the
power sector are increased electrification, the attraction of private sector funds to
expand the network and the reduction of tariffs as feasible through more cost-
effective investment and operations.
h) In order to achieve this, it will be necessary to implement a sector reform
program which includes the adoption of legal, regulatory, financial and corporate
structures conducive to private sector participation in a commercial environment
free of undue political interference. This is now being developed under a
privatization project.
Petroleum
a) While the project assisted a substantial improvement in the Ministry of
Energy's capability to promote, negotiate and manage private sector
investment in petroleum exploration, the Ministry is of the view that
additional assistance is needed to deepen this competence and to handle the
more specialized aspects requiring expert constancy.
b) The petroleum documentation center and the laboratory are now operational
and capably staffed. Their sustainability depends upon continued budget
allocations from the Government. Presently, the ministry budget includes
provisions to cover operations through 1997. An operational budget must be
sustained in the future to cover recurrent costs, maintenance and enhancement
of operations such as the conversion of some data to film base for better
archival preservation and duplication.
c) The Government should regard these service facilities as part of a long-term
investment in the sector and target petroleum concession operators and other
beneficiaries as an eventual source of funding.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit 1880-NIR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The main features of Niger's energy sector which the Energy Project addressed at
appraisal (1987) were: an overall low level of energy consumption but high dependence
on increasing volumes of woodfuel, which did not appear sustainable, almost total
dependence on imports for petroleum and electric power, and insufficient investigation
and evaluation of domestic resources that could be economically deployed for meeting
Niger's energy needs. Woodfuel accounted for 87 percent of the country's total energy
consumption. The greatest concern in the household energy sector was the rapid growth
of the urban population (6-7 percent annually) and related high levels of woodfuel
consumption at prices which were well below the economic value of the resources. As a
result, estimates indicated that demand would outstrip supply in 10-20 years.
2.    The main options for mitigating the woodfuel problem were to reduce demand by
conservation and substitution and to increase supply by better forest resource
management. The Government of Niger (GON) had prepared a development plan for
1987-91 which called for cutting woodfuel consumption in half over a ten year period.
On the demand side, the emphasis was to promote improved wood stoves, with estimated
savings of 20-40 percent, and to encourage use of efficient kerosene and LPG stoves by
the urban households which could afford them. On the supply side, GON planned to
establish policies to improve wood supply management through taxation, quotas, and
permits, in order to sustain supplies.
3.   In the petroleum sub-sector, the GON's strategy was to accelerate private sector
participation in exploration by improving the data base on petroleum and making changes
in the legal framework. In the power sector, imported electricity with some thermal
back-up power was the least-cost supply strategy. Niger was relying mostly on imports
from Nigeria for its power supply except for a small amount of high cost, domestically
produced coal-fired generation to supply power to the uranium mines and some nearby
towns. The rising level of power imports caused GON to look into developing one of the
country's few potential hydro resources - the Gambou site. Niger's power investment
program focused on constructing a second interconnection with Nigeria to meet potential
load growth in the eastern part of Niger and replace higher cost local diesel generation. It
also provided for the rehabilitation and extension of the sub-transmission system in
Niamey and other areas, as well as the rehabilitation of a small number of isolated diesel
stations.



-2 -
4.    Prior to the Energy Project, IDA had been involved in all three sub-sectors: two
IDA forestry credits supporting increased woodfuel supplies; an advance under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for studies to evaluate the economic prospects of the
Sokhor petroleum discovery; a technical assistance and engineering credit to define the
least-cost power development program and improve sector organization and
management; and a Structural Adjustment Loan to redefine the role of the State in
economic activities, including its role in NIGELEC (the power utility) and other state-
owned companies. IDA assistance was appropriate to help direct energy sector
investments to high-priority economic projects, resolve institutional and organizational
issues, ensure that energy prices reflect economic costs and mobilize donor financing
from other sources.
B. STATEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The project's overall objective was to develop a general strategy and specific
policies to address interconnected energy problems facing Niger's economy along with
financing of investments necessary to implement the policies. Within this broad
objective, the project had specific objectives and supporting components for the three
energy sub-sectors it addressed: household energy demand and supply, electric power
supply, and petroleum development. Overall the project partially achieved its objectives
with varied performance among the three sub-sectors.
6.    For the household energy sub-sector, the project's specific objectives were: on the
demand side to promote woodfuel conservation and substitution of other fuels for
woodfuel, and on the supply side to promote more effective forest cover management,
and to develop renewable energy technology. In support of these objectives the project's
policy components focused on: adjusting household energy prices to encourage efficient
energy use, developing a more efficient approach to woodfuel supply management on a
pilot basis, and giving the responsibility for control and exploitation of forests to
contiguous local communities. The related investment components were : on the supply
side the establishment of a woodfuel trade and monitoring system, the zoning of wood
supply areas around urban centers and preparation of woodfuel supply management
plans, and the establishment of rural woodfuel markets and production areas on a pilot
basis; on the demand side the promotion of local manufacture and marketing of
improved wood-stoves and the importing and marketing of improved kerosene and
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) stoves. The major benefits were to be savings of
woodfuel, improvement of the living standards of the population, employment
opportunities in woodfuel trade, and reduced cooking time for food preparation using
kerosene or LPG stoves. The major costs were to be increased imports of kerosene and
LPG but the revenues from woodfuel taxes were to more than offset the additional cost.
7.    The achievement of project objectives in the supply components of the
household energy sub-sector was substantial. GON amended the forestry and tenure
laws to allow villages to sign agreements which give them exclusive rights over their own



-3 -
natural forest area. The first woodfuel markets began operating in 1992 and grew
impressively from 21 in 1993 to 85 by 1995. About 67 percent of these markets supply
some 83,000 tons of wood to Niamey, the capital city, or 16 percent of all woodfuel
entering the city. The establishment of woodfuel markets in rural areas has taken place
through arrangements which establish sustainable harvesting practices determining the
allowable annual cut, and provide guidance on forest and market management.
8.    As a result of the project, traders are encouraged to buy wood at prices negotiated
with the villagers in rural markets supplied from managed forests, partly because they
have to pay a higher tax on woodfuel from non-managed woodlands. The taxes are lower
than originally envisaged at appraisal and the road transport control system for vetting the
movement and taxation of wood from non-managed forests is not as effective as it should
be. Nonetheless, the project induced GON to create a substantial tax differential between
managed and non-managed sources of wood, and to establish a partially effective control
mechanism over the movement of wood from non-managed forests. The cash flow which
the project has generated is substantial by Niger's standards in rural areas (about US$
165,000 equivalent in 1995) and the villages have invested some of the tax revenues in
local projects such as repairing wells and pumps, purchasing emergency grain stocks after
harvest when prices are low, and health and social services. Thus the benefits of the
project have extended well beyond woodfuel supply to general rural development and
improvement of rural living standards. Perhaps the most important long-term impact of
this project is that it has established in Niger the principle and the reality of decentralized
ownership and control over resources and economic decision-making to the village level,
vastly increasing local commitment to the preservation of the resource. It is too soon to
reliably measure productivity gains per hectare of forest. However, at the very least, the
system, which the project established to determine the allowable cut, has arrested
degradation of the resource in the managed areas and provides for its natural
regeneration; compared with tree planting, this is by far the more cost-effective approach
to sustainable woodfuel supply.
9.    On the demand side, the achievement of project objectives was unsatisfactory.
The project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR ) had estimated that by 1997, the promotion of
improved stoves for cooking with wood, kerosene, and LPG would save about 180,000
tons of woodfuel between 1988 and 1997. Based on actual stove sales under the project,
these savings have been in the range of 15,000 to 23,000 tons per year between 1992 and
1996. The economic rate of return on the component was 8.5 percent, compared with 30-
percent estimated at appraisal (Part II, Table 9).
10.   A substantial number of higher-efficiency woodfuel stoves were marketed during
the project period, ranging between 7000 and 11000 units per year over 1989 to 1994
(data for 1995 and 1996 are unavailable). However, the overall results of the woodfuel
conservation/substitution program have been less than planned for many reasons: the
initial targets for woodfuel substitution were ambitious in light of the difficulties incurred
trying to develop the means for achieving inter-fuel substitution; low woodfuel prices
combined with high prices of substitute fuels made fuel-switching much less attractive



than originally envisaged; the unexpected severity of economic hardship in the 1990s
reduced the purchasing power of the target market for kerosene or LPG stoves, making
this a low priority consumer expenditure; the project encountered serious difficulties
finding a substitute stove model compatible with local cooking requirements, hence it
engaged a local manufacturer to adapt the imported product to local needs; however, the
project incurred difficulties sustaining a reliable supply of equipment from as far away as
Indonesia, added to which imported stoves became unmarketable after the devaluation of
the CFA franc in 1994. As a result, the project encouraged the local manufacturer to
replace imported stoves with locally produced models. Due to product development
difficulties and inadequate management the company became insolvent by 1996. The
positive result of this experience, however, was the eventual development of a stove
model well-adapted to local needs, and a substantial accumulation of technical know-how
in its manufacture. It is possible that these gains could be consolidated into a
commercially sustainable activity with a restructuring of the company and a recasting of
the marketing approach.
11.   The other major component of the demand-side program was the development of
private sector "Energie-Shops". These shops are small-scale wholesale companies which
facilitate the distribution of kerosene (at official prices) and stoves, providing purchasers
with convenience and flexibility in their choice of cooking options. The idea was to
provide consumers with the standard of convenience in kerosene purchase which they
enjoy for woodfuel purchase (principally mobile neighborhood delivery service), which
before the advent of these shops was not available. The shops borrowed project funds on
commercial terms to become established; they have been servicing their loans
satisfactorily and are commercially successful.
12.  In the electricity sub-sector, the project's objective was to promote the
conservation of electric power and to help NIGELEC provide electricity at least cost. In
support of this objective the project's investment components consisted of: the
construction of a 132-kv transmission line linking Nigeria's grid with areas in eastern
Nigeria and related substations and the rehabilitation of transmission and distribution
lines, and several studies for future power system development (preparation of the
Gambou hydroelectric project, load management for the Niger Valley, energy
conservation in public buildings, a transmission and distribution master plan for the
Niamey area, and the technical and economic feasibility of expanding the interconnected
system). Finally, the project provided for the extension of office space for NIGELEC and
technical assistance, training, equipment and vehicles.
13.   The project only partially achieved its objective for the electricity sub-sector,
mainly due to suspension and eventual cancellation of the component due to non-
compliance with financial covenants in the project's legal agreements, and non-
compliance with Bank procurement procedures in the distribution component. The
following components were completed. The transmission line from Nigeria to Niger was
constructed. The study for the Gambou hydroelectric project was completed and
concluded that the project is not economic. NIGELEC also completed the load



-5 -
management study but GON did not implement the related pilot project which the study
recommended. The Ministry of Energy implemented energy audits and pilot conservation
programs in public buildings, an important finding of which was the acceptability of
substituting de-humidifiers for air-conditioners, with major savings in electricity
consumption. Unfortunately, once this latter component was implemented, it was not
sustained due to lack of follow-on planning and funding.
14.   The transmission line connecting NIGELEC's grid with that of Nigeria's National
Electric Power Authority (NEPA) remains unused because, due to the cancellation of
funds, the project did not complete the sub-transmission and distribution components
necessary for connecting revenue-paying customers to the grid. Notwithstanding the
inevitable loss of productivity from the transmission line, the cancellation of the funds
was unavoidable. NIGELEC did not complete the other studies planned for the electricity
sector, because of the closure of the component. The extension of NIGELEC's office
space did not take place because the company's extension plan involved purchasing a
building that was too large for its needs, and involved inappropriate terms and costs.
15.   For the petroleum sub-sector, the project's objective was to upgrade Niger's
capability to administer a petroleum exploration promotion program. To build this
capability the project included components for review of legislative and fiscal regimes,
preparation of a synthesis of the country's petroleum geology for greater understanding of
the resource base, preparation of an exploration strategy, promotion of areas for
exploration activity, storage and retrieval of geological and geophysical data, a petroleum
testing laboratory and provision of equipment, training and technical assistance to the
Ministry of Mines and Energy. The project achieved its objectives in these endeavors.
Niger adopted a new law in 1992 covering petroleum development. The petroleum data
systems are in place and have been used to evaluate the country's petroleum potential
This, combined with promotional activities financed under the project attracted oil
company interest and led to the signing of a new exploration contract and work program
with Hunt Oil in 1993. In 1996, Niger also sold acreage relinquished by Elf Oil in 1995.
The staff training program was completed, but on a smaller scale than originally planned
(training expenditure of 2 million French francs, instead of the 2.6 million planned) due
to the lower number of available trainees than anticipated. Twenty-one trainees
participated in technical, economic and commercial courses of varying duration. The
archives/data center and petroleum testing laboratory are in place and became operational
in 1996.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Impementation Recor
16.   The project's appraisal estimated an implementation period of six years, from July
of 1988 through June 1994, with December 1994 as the original closing date of the
Credit. The project was completed two years beyond the original closing date because of



- 6 -
additional time needed to complete the household energy and petroleum sector
components. (Part II, Tables 3 and 5). The credit closed in December 1996.
17.   IDA modified the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) twice during the
project's implementation period. In 1989, IDA changed a condition of disbursement that
Niger and Nigeria reach a satisfactory agreement on the operation and management of the
power transmission line which the project was to construct between the two countries.
Originally the condition applied to all disbursements on the project but the modification
of the DCA limited the condition to electricity components which were related to the
transmission line. IDA modified the DCA again in 1994, to transfer funds from the
unallocated component to the remaining project components.
18.   Actual total project costs were US$29.7 (for bank and DANIDA financing)
compared to US$43 million estimated at appraisal and Bank disbursements on the Credit
amounted to US$17.4 million, about 56 percent of the appraisal estimate. The lower
project costs and credit disbursements resulted from the cancellation of several sub-
components for the electric power sector (Part II Tables 8A and 8B).
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementatio
19.   Factors External to the Project. During the project's implementation period,
Niger faced serious economic and political problems which had an adverse impact on the
project's performance. The country's transition to democracy during 1990-92 was
marked by political and social instability. A weakened fiscal administration eroded the
country's revenue base and caused serious on-going financial problems within the
Government. This situation was a factor in GON's non-payment of its electricity bills.
The devaluation of the CFA franc increased the local currency cost of imported woodfuel
substitutes (kerosene and LPG) in 1994; however, it was also a factor inducing the
development of local kerosene stove manufacturing capability.
20.   Factors Subject to Control of the Borrower and the Implementing Agencies.
Strong Government support of the project's household energy component helped to
overcome some of the legal and institutional problems the project faced - in particular the
vested interests of the woodfuel transporters and the forestry service to maintain control
over the woodfuel harvesting and marketing business. Notwithstanding the high level of
GON commitment to the principles underlying the woodfuel management strategy,
constructing a new legal framework and administrative capacity took more time than
originally envisaged, and there remain problems with respect to both raising the taxes on
wood supply from non-managed forests to appropriate levels and to tightening the control
system for transportation and taxation of woodfuel from non-managed areas.
21.  In the execution of the electric power components, the main problem was the
lack of sufficient commitment by the Government and NIGELEC to bring about needed
improvement both in the financial and institutional management of the power sector and
to the weak management and procurement capacity of the utility. GON's interventions in



- 7 -
the power sector often reflected immediate financial and political considerations rather
than the long-run developmental requirements of the sector. As well, NIGELEC's lack of
adherence to standard Bank procurement procedures led to only partial achievement of
the project's objectives for the power sector.
22.   In the execution of the petroleum component, the new petroleum law and the
petroleum exploration promotion campaign were completed on time. Work on the
documentation center and construction of the laboratory started early enough but stalled
in 1991, due to insolvency of the bank where GON was keeping the project account. IDA
stopped disbursements until the resolution of the banking problem, which happened only
in 1994. Then delays to completion of the documentation center occurred due to lack of a
clear decision-making process and insufficient knowledge of Bank procurement
procedures. Delays and reduction of the staff training program resulted from the lack of
sufficient qualified staff available for training. By the closure of the project, substantial
training had taken place and the documentation center and laboratory were operational.
D. IDA PERFORMANCE
23.  IDA's performance overall was satisfactory. It clearly identified the need for an
integrated approach in solving Niger's energy problems. The appraisal of the project was
satisfactory, focusing on the major sector issues and providing a reasonable assessment of
the project's risks. However, the appraisal was overly optimistic about the measurable
economic benefits of the woodfuel program, and did not anticipate the depth of the
implementation difficulties explained above. In supervision, IDA demonstrated
considerable flexibility given the innovative nature of the project, especially in the
implementation of the household energy components.
24.  In supervising the electric power sub-component, IDA initially focused more on
technical issues than on finance and management issues. However, after 1992, IDA made
repeated attempts to encourage improvement in the sector's financial condition and
management. IDA ultimately took a firm stand on compliance with financial and
management covenants, but gave GON and NIGELEC ample time to implement an
agreed program of actions. When this did not occur, it became necessary to suspend
disbursements and eventually cancel part of the electricity component. In the petroleum
sub-sector, IDA's supervision could have taken more care to ensure that the Niger
counterparts better understood the Bank's procurement procedures: lack of understanding
and experience in procurement delayed the completion of the data center, the laboratory
and the training program; however an intensive supervision effort combined with
corresponding responsiveness of GON was sufficient to achieve completion in 1996.



E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   The performance of the Borrower and implementing agencies was satisfactory in
project preparation. However, performance in project implementation and compliance
with covenants varied significantly by project component: satisfactory for the supply side
of the household energy component and much less satisfactory for the demand side,
satisfactory for the petroleum sector component, and unsatisfactory for the electric power
sector component. The overall performance for the Borrower is satisfactory given a
commitment toward the end of the project to initiate a power sector restructuring process.
26.  In executing the household energy components, GON  showed a strong
commitment to the project - overhauling existing woodfuel traffic regulations and
procedures and enduring the long process of formulating and implementing new land
tenure law and tax regulations. GON also supported the new system by appointing
dedicated, capable staff to key functions in the forestry service and taking firm
administrative steps to prevent woodfuel traders from undermining the new system.
GON could have been more firm in controlling fraud in the traffic control system and
increasing the level of taxation on wood from non-managed forests, providing a stronger
incentive for woodfuel traders to buy their supplies from managed areas. However, it
seems instead that GON opted for a more cautious, gradual approach in light of the
political counter-pressures and difficult socio-economic conditions it faced.
27.   GON did not take sufficient ownership of the project's objectives to avert or
minimize implementation and compliance problems in the electric power sector. An
adverse combination of factors constrained NIGELEC's operations and undermined its
financial performance: for example, low demand growth on account of inability to
connect new customers to the grid, political pressure to supply electricity at very high
cost to small loads in non-viable isolated locations, political pressure to buy electricity
from SONICHAR (another parastatal corporation) at inflated prices, political pressure to
maintain excessive staff, and non-payment of government electricity bills. NIGELEC
was unable to comply with most of the project's financial covenants. In September 1992,
the Bank asked GON to submit a plan within a six-month period for correcting financial
and managerial problems, in order to avoid suspension of disbursements for the
electricity component.
28.   Although GON indicated its willingness to improve NIGELEC's operations, it did
not do so within the agreed time period. Therefore in May 1993, the Bank suspended
disbursements on the electricity component and gave the Borrower a set of conditions for
lifting the suspension. By August 1994, the Borrower had not fulfilled the conditions
and the Bank decided to cancel the unused portion of the electricity component.
29.   The Borrower satisfactorily implemented the legal reforms and enabling
environment needed to attract the private sector into petroleum exploration. In this
respect, the project achieved an appropriate allocation of responsibility between the



-9-
public sector to establish an appropriate policy framework and the private sector to take
fundamental risk. Delayed implementation of the petroleum laboratory and
documentation center occurred not only on account of the banking problems noted in
paragraph 21, but also from the inability of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Energy and Mines to resolve, in a timely manner, the issue of responsibility for
purchasing necessary equipment; considerable effort was needed to resolve procurement
and contractual problems affecting their timely completion; however, as a result of
intensive supervision and the responsiveness of GON, they were operational by late 1996.
F. PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINABILITY, AND FUTURE OPERATION
30.   The  overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. Its achievements are
sustainable but fragile. The project achieved most of its objectives in the household
energy and petroleum sectors. Although it did not achieve most of its objectives in the
electric power sector, GON has committed to a plan of action on power sector reform,
which will create the necessary conditions for private and public investment in a
commercialized power system. The operational plan (Appendix C) outlines the major
actions that will be necessary to sustain project achievements for each of the project's
energy sub-sectors.
31.    The project's household energy component has established viable mechanisms
to help sustain the country's wood supply and avert shortages anticipated at appraisal.
The country's forest cover is 16 percent. Where the rural market system operates, it has
placed responsibility for woodfuel supply with the villages. This covers a small but
growing portion of the total woodfuel market. The increased cashflow from the markets
will provide a greater incentive for introducing more effective management of the
surrounding woodlands.
32.   Participating villages have shown considerable enthusiasm for the rural market
system. Despite an encouraging start, the new system is still vulnerable to renewed
obstruction by woodfuel traders and the forestry service, who lose control over resources
under this system. It therefore requires careful monitoring and actions to sustain its
achievements (Operational Plan). If the system can sustain and extend its benefits, it will
serve as a good model of how to transfer economic surplus from urban to rural areas and
shift control over natural resources from governments and traders to rural populations.
33.   To attain the benefits of the new transmission line which the project constructed,
investment will be required for the sub-transmission and distribution components not
completed under the project. The power sector restructuring approach recently agreed
with GON and now being prepared for implementation under a privatization project
should create the necessary conditions for power system expansion and financial
sustainability of the sector.



- 10-
34.   In the petroleum sub-sector, the project has helped to establish a clear regulatory
framework for petroleum exploration and development. It also assisted GON in
developing the capability to manage the country's petroleum data base, promote
petroleum exploration in Niger and negotiate contracts with international oil companies.
The result has been an increased level of petroleum exploration interest in Niger.
However, it is important that the GON sustain the capability developed. This will require
retention of competent staff and additional staff development. The documentation center
and the laboratory will be sustained initially through budget allocation, but given the
GON's financial constraints, these service centers should be commercialized.
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   One general lesson is the importance of sustaining a commitment to the
implementation of all components and taking sufficient ownership of the project to:
address any constraints early on, resolve them to ensure effective project implementation
as originally designed, or modify the project if necessary.
36.   In the household energy sector, the project has shown that it is possible to
manage natural forests on a sustained basis with a project design including policy and
investment components, a flexible approach to implementation and a strong commitment
from the Borrower. Specifically, (i) it has proved advantageous to establish the legal
framework for village-based woodland control and management early in the project
cycle; in this way, the enabling environment is created to facilitate implementation of the
investment components. (ii) The risks to woodfuel fiscal policy and its implementation
should be carefully identified and addressed from the start to the end of the project cycle;
this is necessary to insure the implementation of appropriate taxation and control
structures in support of project effectiveness. (ii) The clear separation between the control
function of the forestry service and the advice and support function for establishing rural
markets has been useful. The latter is being carried by the project unit, to date supported
by GON, Denmark and IDA. It is necessary to find mechanisms for insuring the financial
and institutional autonomy of this group, which is responsible for the overall strategy and
administration of the program; its survival has been excessively dependent on uncertain
external support. One such mechanism could be a formula allocating to the project unit a
small share of the fiscal proceeds of the woodfuel supply system. (iv) Careful analysis of
the technical and operational hazards and potential benefits of a fuel substitution program
is essential to design cost-effective programming.
37.   Concerning the electricity sector, the project showed that despite adequate
technical design, satisfactory results cannot be expected from implementing it in a
fundamentally defective institutional and financial context. This was recognized in the
cancellation of the component and the subsequent resumption of dialogue on sector
reform. Hence, before a project begins substantial investment in system expansion, there
should be firm commitment, identified mechanisms and some evidence of



implementation to resolve major institutional and financial impediments to the
satisfactory performance of the project and the sector.
38.   The experience with the project's petroleum sector component indicated the
encouraging possibility of developing an appropriate division of roles and responsibilities
between the public and private sectors, and with a correct enabling environment attracting
private sector willingness to absorb fundamental risk. The experience also indicated the
importance of insuring that the implementing agencies, including relevant ministries and
other supervisory bodies understand both Bank procurement procedures and the basic
principles of efficient procurement practices.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



- 13 -
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment            Substantial    Partial       Negligible     Not Applicable
Categories
Macroeconomic Policies                                                            x
Sector Policies                     x
Financial Objectives                              x      _ ___
Institutional development                         x
Physical objectives                               x
Gender concerns                                                                   x
Other social objectives             x
Environmental objectives            x
Public sector management                          x
Private sector development                        x
Other
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                       Uncertain                      Unlikely
x
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                                         x
Preparation                                            x
Appraisal                                           _ x          _ _
Supervision                                            x
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                                            x
Implementation                                         x
Covenant Compliance                                                           x
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly                             Marginally                             Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
x



- 14 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Preceding Operations
Title             Small Rural Operations
Loan no.          18900
Year of approval  1988
Purpose          Helping the government develop institutional capability in preparation and
execution of small rural operations.
Status            Supervision
Title             Natural Resource Management Project
Loan no.          27960
Year of approval   1995
Purpose           Assist Rural Communities in designing and implementing community land based
management.
Status            Supervision
Title             Energy II Project Natural Resource Management Project
Loan no.          NA
Year of approval   NA
Purpose           Address the various and interconnected energy problems facing the economy by
developing policies and a program to redress the growing imbalance between energy
demand and supply
Status            Under preparation.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle            Planned Date                    Actual Date
Identification                             1985                           1985
Preparation                             December 86                    December 86
Appraisal                              January 1987                    January 1987
Negotiations                             October 87                     October 87
Letter of development policy               1987                           1987
Board Approval                         February 1988                February 23, 1988
Signing                                March 1988                     March 18, 1988
Effectiveness                            July 1988                     July 1, 1988
Project completion                     June 30, 1994                 December 31, 96
Credit closing                       December 31, 1994              December 31, 1996
NA = Not applicable
Source: Project files and Bank Staff estimates.



- 15-
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
Comparative Indicators    FY    FY    FY    FY        FY    FY      FY      FY     FY    FY
88    89    90    91       92     93     94      95     96      97
Appraisal estimate        0.7    5.0   11.3  18.3   23.9   28.0   30.6   31.5   31.5   31.5
Actual                    0.0   2.4    5.5   7.3    9.2   11.3   12.0   13.5   15.3   17.4
Actual as percent of estimate   0.0   48.0  48.7   39.9   38.5  40.4   41.2   42.9   49.0   55.0
Notes:
1. All US$ figures rounded to the nearest hundred thousand US$.
2. All percentage figures rounded to the nearest one percent.
Source: Bank MIS and Bank Staff estimates.



- 16-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICTORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in the SARlPresidentls Report  Estimated Completion    Actual Completion Date
Date
1. Household Energy Components
A. Supply-Side Sub-Components
I. Construction of firewood checkpoints.                      June 1989                    July 1991
2. Zoning of areas by brushwood potential                   December 1990                October 1990
3. Preparation of firewood supply management plans            March 1991                September 1993
4. Establishment of firewood production areas.                March 1991                September 1993
5. Population sensitization program                         November 1992          February 92-December 1996
6. Establishment of rural firewood markets.                   March 1993           February 92-December 1996
7. Implementation of the firewood trade monitoring system   September 1994               December 1996
8. Establishment of the firewood taxation system.           September 1994    -           August 1992
9. Training                                                 September 1994         February 92-December 1996
B. Demand Side Components
I .  Testing of kerosene stoves                                June 1989                   July 1990
2.  Preparation of marketing and promotion campaigns        November 1990                  June 1990
3.  Dissemination of improved wood stoves.                  September 1994              December 1994
4.  Monitoring of woodfuel consumption                      September 1994               December 1996
5.  Training                                                September 1994               December 1996
6.  Production, importation and promotion of kerosene stoves  September 1994   Stove imports began in 1990 with
sales by the operator, on a pilot
basis, until June 1993. After some
design  modification,  the  local
production of stoves began.  The
purchase of equipment for this
production began in February 1994,
with initial prototype production
from July 1995 to the present. The
stove   promotion   campaign  is
ongoing.
II. Electric Power Component
A. Design and bidding documents for the Gambou
Hydroelectric Project                                     March 1993                  March 1994
B. Katsina interconnection                                  November 1991                October 1993
C.  132-kV substations                                      December 1991             not realized by credit
D. Distribution System                                       December 1994            not realized by credit
E. Rehabilitation of Anou Araren Transmission Line             June 1990                 January 1991
F.  Niamey distribution system                              December 1994             not realized by credit
lII. Petroleum Component
A. Legislative review                                          June 1989                 February 1991
B. Organizational review                                       June 1989                 February 1996
C. Seismic data reprocessing                                 February 1991                March 1994
D. Recovery of documents and information                     February 1991               December 1996
E.  Diagnostic study                                           July 1992                December 1996
F.  Negotiation preparation                                  October 1992                  April 1996
G. Training                                                  October 1994                December 1996
H. Archiving of documents                                    December 1994              December 1996
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



- 17-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Table not applicable to this project.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study                       Purpose                  Status and Impact
Engineering Studies and   Preparation of Gambou           Feasibility study concluded
bidding document          Hydroelectric Project.          the project was not economic
preparation.                                              so this component was
canceled.
Load Management Study    Study to determine the most      Suspension of component
appropriate way to manage the    did not allow
electric power load for the Niger  implementation of the study.
Valley.
Power system feasibility  Determine the technical and     Suspension of component
studies                   economic feasibility of         did not allow
expanding the interconnected   imnplementation of this study.
electric power system.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
TABLE 8A1: PROJECT COSTS
Household Energy Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
All costs rounded to the nearest US$ 100,000 equivalent.
Item                  Appraisal estimate           Actual or latest estimate
Local   Foreig    Total     Local    Foreign      Total
Costs   n costs    Costs    Costs      costs       costs
Consultants, studies and training  1.0  2.0      3.0       0.9        3.1         4.0
Provision of office facilities,
firewood control points        0.3      1.5      1.8       2.0        0.3         2.3
equipment, material and vehicles 
Operational support            3.0      1.0      4.0       9.4        0.0         9.4
Renewable energy               0.1      0.5      0.6       0.3        0.2         0.5
Subtotal                     4.4      5.0       9.4       12.2       3.6        16.2
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



- 18 -
TABLE 8A2: SUMMARY COSTS OF ELECTRIC POWER AND PETROLEUM COMPONENTS
Appraisal        Actual
Component              Estimate          (US$
(US$million)    million)
Electric Power a/              53.5             9.4
Petroleum b/                    3.0             4.8
a/ Breakdown by component into actual local and foreign costs in US dollars not available. The original estimate was to cover
construction of 132-kv transmission line and sub-stations, 132-kv transmission line rehabilitation, training and technical assistance,
studies, and the provision of office space. The actual costs were much lower than the appraisal costs because the component was
canceled.
h/ All costs are foreign costs. No breakdown available in US$ by component. Costs covered the following components:
establishment of geological information systems; review of legislative and fiscal regimes; promotion and negotiations; geological
synthesis, strategy and exploration administration; training, equipment, and technical assistance, petroleum documentation center
and laboratory.
TABLE 8A3: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
TOTAL                Appraisal           Actual (US$
Estimate             million)
(US$million)
Project Costs                86.0                 30.4
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ million equivalent)
Source              Appraisal    Actual
estimate
IDA                              31.5          17.5
KFW                              10.0           N/A
EIB                               6.3          N/A
DANIDA                           11.5          10.3
Government/NIGELEC               16.7          2.6
TOTAL                            86.0          30.4
Note: All financing amounts rounded to the nearest US$100,000 equivalent.
Source: Bank MIS and Bank staff estimates.



- 19-
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Component                           SAR Estimate                              ICR Re-Estimate
Household Energy
Major Benefits            Incremental increase in wood 110 kg per ha due to  Research on productivity increase has
forest protection and savings of 180,000 tons by year   been on-going for sevcral years but more
1997 in firewood consumption due to improved wood  time is needed to achieve conclusive
stoves and the substitution of kerosene and LPG for    results.
firewood.                                       * Savings in firewood consumption are
estimated at 15,300 tons in 1996.
Major Costs               Capital and operating costs for improved firewood
management, advertising, testing, training and other
costs of improved stove promotion; incremental costs
of increased imports of kerosene and LPG
Economic Rate of Return   30 percent Does not include long-term ecological  8.5 percent calculated by finding the IRR of
benefits. Also does not include estimated wood  the benefits of the woodfuel substitution
productivity increase. I/                       component relative to the costs of this
component over 1989 to 1996 inclusive.
Electricity
Major Benefits            Minimum economic benefits approximated by                    Not achieved
valuing incremental sales at the weighted average of
low and medium voltage rates for isolated areas
Major Costs               Generation and transmission costs of connecting              Not incurred
Katsina to a point in Niger midway between Maradi
and Zinder to hook up major load centers along with
associated capital and operating costs for distribution
Economic Rate of Return    10 percent (base case)                                       8.5 percent
Petroleum                 No economic analysis prepared for this component.    The Ministry of Mines and Energy now has
The main benefit was to be the acquisition of data to    a petroleum data management system and
help the Govemment evaluate its petroleum potential  laboratory as well as the capability to
more effectively and develop its capability to  negotiate and administer contracts with
administer petroleum exploration by foreign    intemational oil companies. The
operators.                                      Govemment has provided a budget
allocation for these purposes.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



- 20 -
TABLE 9A: INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
Household Energy Component
(1989 - 1996 Period)
(FCFA millions)
1989    1990    1991    1992       1993     1994     1995      1996
COSTS
Project Costs (related to the Demand Component) (a)    123.9   261.6   351.6   337.6    160.8        80.1   233.7    320.0
Additional Costs of Importing LPG and Stoves                     14.8    29.8      5.9      13.4
Additional Costs of Importing Kerosene                           6.2      5.3    15.0       12.9      1.2      2.6       4.6
TOTAL                           123.9   282.5   386.7   358.6    187.1         81.3   236.3    324.6
BENEFITS
Total quantity of woodfuel savings (Tons) (b)                  3,200    9,300   15,900   22,900   20,600   18,100    15,300
Weighted average market value per kg.                           20.0    19.8    19.6        19.7     23.3    25.2       26.0
Economic Savings in Woodfuel Consumption                  0     64.3   184.5   310.9    450.1    479.2   455.4    397.6
Cashflow                                             (123.9)  (218.3)  (202.2)   (47.7)    263.0    397.9   219.1       72.9
GDP Deflator index 1988= 100                           105.8    98.1    93.0    94.1        94.0    124.7   131.5    137.8
Real Net Cashflow                                    (117.1)  (222.5)  (217.4)   (50.7)    279.8    319.1    166.6      52.9
IRR (c)                                               8.5%          1
(a) Includes investment and operating costs of the woodfuel substitution component.
(b) The difference between projected consumption without the project and actual consumption with the project.
(c) covers 1989 to 1996 inclusive



- 21 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Development Credit Agreement
Sections 3.01 (a)           l
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower declares commitment to project objectives ; delegates responsibility for
components to the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment and
NIGELEC.
Status: Compliance.
Sections 3.01 (b)           1
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower declares that it will cause NIGELEC to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement.
Status: Non Compliance.
Section 3.01 (c)            l
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to re-lend proceeds of the Credit to NIGELEC for executing Part B of the project
as described in Schedule I and make available to NIGELEC on a grant basis, proceeds of the Credit for
Categories I d and of in paragraph I of Schedule 1.
Status: Compliance.
Section 3.01 (d)           l
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Status: Compliance
Section 3.02
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Procurement of goods and services for the project to be governed by Schedule 4 of the
Agreement.
Status: Compliance
Section 3.03
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower agrees that NIGELEC will carry out its part of the project according to the general
conditions of the Agreement and pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Status: Non-Compliance
Section 3.04
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to review annually, with IDA, by September 30, its overall strategy for the energy
sector, including the investment program and its sector policies on tariffs, prices and taxes; and obtain
IDA's approval for any energy sector investment in excess of US$ 10 million equivalent.
Original Fulfillment Date: September 30 of each year
Revised Fulfillment Date: NA.
Status: Non-compliance - Sector restructuring discussions are in progress



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Project Covenants
Development Credit Agreement
Section 4.01 (a)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to maintain records and accounts according to sound accounting practices.I
Status: Compliance
Section 4.01 (b)            |
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to have accounts audited by independent auditors for each fiscal year of during the
project's execution and furnish IDA with audit reports at the end of the fiscal year, along with any other
information reasonably requested by IDA
Original Fulfillment Date: Submission or audit reports to IDA no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable.
Status: Delayed compliance.
Section 4.01 (c)            |
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to comply with specifications for retaining records related to withdrawals from the
project's Special Account.
Status: Compliance.
Section 4.01 (c)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to provide separate opinion by independent auditors that the statements of
expenditures can be relied upon to support the withdrawals from the project's Special Account.
Status: Compliance
Section 4.02                I
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to review, with IDA the recommendations of the tariff study to be executed under
Credit 1511 -NIR, and take all necessary actions to implement the recommendations satisfactory to IDA.
Original Fulfillment Date: No later than December 31, 1988.
Revised Fulfillment Date: NA
Status: Non-compliance
Section 4.03                l
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to make necessary budget allocations to pay all of its electricity consumption
promptly beginning fiscal year 1989.
Status: Non compliance
Section 4.04 (a)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to cause NIGELEC to reduce all receivables to not greater than three months of
billing and maintain receivables at that level thereafter. And take all necessary measures to authorize
NIGELEC to interrupt the electricity supply of customers with bills overdue by more than 90 days.
Original Fulfillment Date: December 31, 1988
Revised Fulfillment Date: NA
Status: Non-compliance



- 23 -
Table 10: Status of Project Covenants
Development Credit Agreement
Section 4.05 (a)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Unless IDA specifies otherwise, the Borrower shall increase taxes on firewood consumption
to levels in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA.
Status: Compliance
Section 4.05(b)             |
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Unless otherwise agreed with IDA, the Borrower is to reduce the sales price of kerosene from
CFAF 145 per liter to CFAF 105 per liter.
Original Fulfillment Date: June 30, 1988
Revised Fulfillment Date: NA
Status: Compliance
Section 4.05(c)             l
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Unless otherwise agreed with IDA, Borrower to reduce, by 50 percent, the taxes and duties
applicable to the import and sale of kerosene stoves.
Original Fulfillment Date: September 30 1988
Status: Compliance
Project Agreement
Section 2.05
Covenant type: Execution
Description: NIGELEC to provide progress reports on the electricity component of the project.
Status and Comments: Compliance.
Section 3.03                |
Covenant type: Execution
Description: NIGELEC to take out and maintain appropriate insurance
Status and Comments: Non-compliance
Section 4.01 (c)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: NIGELEC to provide an auditor's report on all of its accounts including the Special Account
for the project..
Original Fulfillment Date: By June 30 of each year of the project
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable
Status and Comments: Delayed compliance.



-24 -
Table 10: Status of Project Covenants
Project Agreement
Section 4.02
Covenant type: Financial
Description: NIGELEC to provide evidence that it has met a reasonable three annual average self-
financing ratio for the previous fiscal year and its forecast for meeting this requirement for the next fiscal
year.
Original Fulfillment Date: Beginning November 30, 1989, by November 30 of each year of the project.
Revised Fulfillment Date: NA
Status and Comments: Non-compliance - The electricity component has been closed.
Section 4.03
Covenant type: Financial
Description: NIGELEC to maintain net revenues for each fiscal year at the level of 1.5 times the debt
service requirements during the period of the loan.
Status and Comments: Non-compliance - The electricity component has been closed.
Section 4.05
Covenant type: Financial
Description: NIGELEC to make adequate provisions for depreciation and renewal of fixed assets.
Status and Comments: Non-compliance - The electricity component has been closed.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not applicable to this project.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of
project cycle         Planned                    Revised                    Actual
Weeks         US$         Weeks          US$         Weeks         US$
Preparation to
Appraisal                                                               13.9         36.3
Appraisal                                                               57.9         165.1
Negotiations
through Board                                                           71.7         56.2
approval
Supervision        10.0         21.5         26.4         44.4         214.5        294.1
Completion        1.5.5         24.6         16.0         24.9          6.5          17.7



-25 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Number  Days   Specialized
Stage of project   Month and        of       in      staff skills   Performance   Types of
cycle            Year        persons   field   represented     Rating      Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision I       March 1988        2        4    FA, EE
Supervision 2       May 1989          2        12   FA EE, PE            I       COV, M
Supervision 3       January 1991       1       10   FA, EE           -  2        COV, M,
AF
Supervision 4       October 1991      2         9    FA, 2EE, EP         2       COV, M,
AF
Supervision 5       February 92       4        18   EP, FA              2/3       COV, M,
EE, ES
Supervision 6       June/July 93       1                                 3
EP
Supervision 7       June 1993         2        12                        3        COV, M,
Supervision 8       June 1994                        EP, ES
Supervision 9 and    March 1995       2        13                        S       COV, M
completion          December          2        17   EC, EE               S        COV, M
1996                             EC, PA
Staffing codes: EC = Energy Economist; EE = Electrical Engineer; EP = Energy Planner; ES = Energy
Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; PA = Project Assistant; PE = Petroleum Engineer
Project Rating Codes: I  no significant problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems; S =
satisfactory
Problem type codes: DO  disbursement operations; M = managerial;
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates



ANNEXES



Annex A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION SUMMARY
The Energy II program, started in 1989, includes: (i) a household energy component (A);
(ii) an electricity component (B); and a petroleum component. The main features are as
follows:
1. Household Energy Component
1. 1. Features
Title: ENERGY II      Approval date:    Start-up date:  Executing agencies:
PROJECT               JANUARY 1988  JULY 1989    DE/MHE (VO) and
HOUSEHOLD                                            DE/MME (VD)
ENERGY
Financing for 1 st phase:  1 st extension:  2nd      3rd extension:
Up to June 1994:      July 94-Dec. 95:  extension:   Jan. -Dec. 97:
Dec. 96:
US$12.67 million      US$1 million     SDR 2 million DKK 3 million
(DANIDA grant         (Credit          (Credit       (DANIDA grant)
administered by the   1880/NIR)        1880/NIR)    and CFAF 537
World Bank)                                           million
(credit 2796/NIR)
VO: Supply Side; VD: Demand Side
1.2. Objectives
A. Main objective: Find a global solution to the various interrelated energy supply
problems affecting the country's economy by designing policies and programs to correct
the most marked imbalances between supply and demand.
B. Specific objectives: (I) promote fuel wood conservation; (ii) provide for substitute
energy sources; (iii) improve management of natural forest cover; and (iv) promote the
development of renewable energy sources.
1.3. Implementation activities
(I) Regulation of trade in and transport of fuel wood; (ii) Control over the supply and
distribution of fuel wood to towns; (iii) Preparation of master supply plans; (iv) Creation
of rural markets and production zones; (v) Promotion of local production and marketing
of improved wood stoves; (vi) Local production, import, and marketing of kerosene and
butane gas stoves.
-27-



Amex A
1.4. Results
A. Qualitative Results
(I) Adoption of Order 92-037; (ii) Preparation of three master supply plans;
(iii) Construction of 17 traffic control stations; (iv) Creation of 92 rural
markets; (v) Training of Environment Department agents; (vi) Information
SUPPLY SIDE  campaign and basic education for local people, and organization of local
people into local management groups [SLG]; (vii) Creation of an
environmental data bank; (viii) Promotion of private management
structures on a local level (GTA/GTI)
(I) Identification, testing, and adaptation of a petroleum stove model; (ii)
Preparation and implementation of a marketing strategy; (iii) Promotion of
DEMAND         the private sector in the household energy field (Tchip-Import and Energy
SIDE           Shops); (iv) Creation of a sales network and SAV for fuels and equipment;
(v) Production of tools for promotion, information, and equipment
maintenance
B. Quantitative results
(I) 92 rural markets created; (ii) 314 million FCFA in total sales revenue in
rural areas, including 251 million which went directly to village
SUPPLY SIDE  lumberjacks; (iii) 490 million in forest tax revenue; (iv) 920 persons
organized into village management structures; (v) Financing of various
development operations, including 40 grain banks, 181 carts, inoculation
campaigns, recovery and drilling of water wells, etc.
(I) Over 13,000 petroleum stoves, 12,000 basic gas stoves (3 & 5 kg),
10,000 improved metal wood stoves per year, 4,000 wood stoves  en
banco, per year, made available; (ii) A substantial reduction in urban
DEMAND         consumption of wood, from an average of 5% a year to 1.14% a year from
SIDE           1990 to 1993; (iii) A considerable drop (15% a year) in kerosene prices, as
a result of local distribution close to end-users; (iv) Total sales of over 700
million FCFA in 1995 for the Energy Shops; (v) More than 70 permanent
jobs created (Energy Shops and Tchip-Import), and more than 500 indirect
jobs created for distributors and retailers of fuels and equipment, etc.
-28 -



Annex A
1.5. Problems
A. For Niger
1.    Sluggishness on the part of the Government in applying the laws: rural
concessions; revision of the tax on non-managed forests; use of account 3001;
2.    Policy coordination, establishing fuel prices, programming, etc.;
3.    Weak purchasing power of the local people;
4.    Turnover of project management;
5.    Poor financial motivation, particularly in the case of moves or transfers: granting
of benefits, health insurance, and the like.
B. For the World Bank
1.    Cross conditionality: Household Energy and NIGELEC;
2.    Consistency between sectoral policies and macro-economic policy: fuel prices;
3.    Coordination of project monitoring between the resident mission and
headquarters, for instance, transition of Energy II and its link with PGRN.
1. 6. Prospects
The different evaluation and supervision missions conducted by the World Bank and the
prime lender for this component, i.e., DANIDA, confirmed the positive outcome.
However, the results are fragile. The plans are to extend it into a second phase, in order
to consolidate these results.
2. The Electricity Component
The objectives of this component are as follows: (i) promote the conservation of electric
power; and (ii) supply electricity at least cost.
Success was only partially achieved with this component because of difficulties
encountered in reorganizing NIGELEC. These problems were aggravated by political
and institutional instability during the 1 990s following democratization of the country. It
should be noted that the Credit Agreement on this component was modified in February
1989 in accordance with the clauses contained in Appendix 2. Some of the results
achieved were: (i) Rehabilitation of the 132 kV Anou-Araren-Akokan line; (ii) Up-dated
study of the Gambou dam; (iii) Interconnection between Katsina and central eastem
Niger using a 132 kV line; (iv) Technical assistance to the DEPT; (v) Training by
UNISYS of technical and management staff for the computer service; (vi) Training of 8
high-level technicians in Algeria (SONELGAZ); (vii) Training of about 15 electrical
technicians/engineers at ESIE; (viii) Mission by NIGELEC officers regarding the
accounting software package; (ix) Study on load management; (x) Acquisition of an
-29 -



An  A
accounting software package from UNISYS; (xi) Acquisition of network computation
software; (xii) Filing system on assets; (xiii) Accounts audit; (xiv) Acquisition of the A6
computer from UNISYS; (xv) Acquisition of vehicles.
The component involving energy conservation and monitoring of government energy
billings was successful insofar as technical and economic testing was concerned.
Application of this component on a large scale, however, could not be launched. Credit
to the electricity component was suspended in May 1993 and was canceled definitively in
October 1995.
3. The Oil Component
The objective was to improve management of oil exploration. The following was
accomplished during implementation:
Organization of the Hydrocarbon Office and training plan: The training scheduled
for the staff of the Hydrocarbon Office was fully completed in 1995 and 1996, and all the
supplies and equipment planned for operating and managing the Office were acquired.
Study of Niger's oil potential and development: The specific results were as follows:
(i) Monitoring of geological and geophysical works of the companies operating in Niger
(Hunt Oil and Esso); (ii) Evaluation of new acquisitions and appraisal of recent drilling in
Faringa, Agadi, and Karam; (iii) Participation by the Ministry of Mines and Energy in the
Annual Convention of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) in
Houston in March 1995, in Nice in September 1995, and in San Diego in May 1996, and
in the conference on minerals and oil in Johannesburg in June 1996, and the Forum on
Mines and Petroleum in Abidjan in June 1996; (iv) Revision of the 1991 promotion
report, incorporating data from Elf Aquitaine; and (v) Training of personnel for the
hydrocarbon control laboratory.
It should be noted that implementation of this component sparked the interest of a
number of oil companies, including the partnership between Elf and Esso, which has
made a commitment to a CFAF 30 billion exploration program over a period of five (5)
years, as well as Hunt Oil, which has committed to US$30 million, and TG World
Energy, more recently. Around a dozen other companies have been in contact with the
Ministry of Mines.
Petroleum Archives and Documentation Center: (I) Development of the premises
housing the petroleum archives and docurnentation center; (ii) Acquisition of supplies
and equipment from abroad and in Niamey; (iii) Repatriation of data including 2/3 of
Niger's total petroleum documentation comprising seismic profiles, well logs and
technical reports, and drilling completion reports.
- 30 -



Annex A
National Laboratory for Analysis of Petroleum Products: (I) Construction and fitting
out of the laboratory rooms; (ii) Delivery and installation of the equipment ordered; (iii)
Drafting of the administrative regulations to establish the laboratory and its structure and
functions; (iv) Determination and adoption of the standards and specifications applicable
to oil products in Niger; and (v) Training of laboratory personnel.
Legal Component: A new petroleum code was adopted for Niger by Order No. 92-45
dated December 16, 1992, regulating oil operations in Niger.
4. Global Prospects for the Program
The principal achievements have made it possible for the Energy Ministry to make plans
to pursue and expand operations through a new program, which has set the following
objectives:
In the long run:
-  Energy independence by developing national resources, such as hydroelectric power,
coal, solar energy and wind-power;
*  Supply of electricity to all the main towns of the administrative divisions
[arrondissements];
- Environmental protection;
* Making power more accessible, by reducing rates and developing sales;
* Regional integration, including development of link-ups with other countries,
increased trade in the energy sector, and participation in sub-regional projects.
In the short run:
D Pursuit of a household energy strategy (Energy II, phase II);
D Implementation of the Program for Sustainable Management of Traditional Energy
Sources (PGDET);
* Development of interconnection, including Maradi-Malbaza-Tahoua and Geidam-
Diffa-N'guigmi-Maine;
* Supply of electricity to rural areas;
* Updating and revising feasibility studies on hydroelectric power facilities;
* Studies on the master plan for electricity and reorganization of the electrical
sub-sector;
* Promotion of ENRs
* Promotion of control and management of energy.
- 31 -



Annex B
Aide-Memoire
Mission de la Banque mondiale
Projet Energie II (Credit 1880-NIR)
Niamey, 8-22 novembre 1996
Introduction:
Une mission de la Banque mondiale (Messieurs Mark Segal et Kwawu Gaba) s'est
rendue a Niamey du 8 au 22 novembre 1996 dans le cadre de la supervision diu projet Energie
11 et de la restructuration du secteur electrique. Elle y a rencontre Son Excellence le Ministre
d'Etat charge de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan, Son Excellence le Ministre des Mines
et de l'Energie, Son Excellence le Ministre de l'Hydraulique et de l'Environnement ainsi que
les personnels du projet et des ministeres de tutelle, de la NIGELEC, de [a SONIDEP et de la
CSPPN. La mission a recu une substantielle documentation traitant des sujets pertinents a son
travail. La mission remercie vivement les personnes dont la liste est jointe a cet aide-memoire
pour l'accueil chaleureux et l'aimable assistance qui lui ont ete accordes.
A.    Objectifs de la mission
1.    La mission avait les objectifs suivants:
1) supervision du projet Energie II pour l'annee 1996 et participation a l'atelier de la
premiere phase du projet Energie Domestique;
2) recommandations pour la poursuite du projet Energie II - Energie Domestique
(programme des activites de l'annee 1997, collaboration avec le PGRN);
3) preparation du rapport d'achevement du projet.
4) soutien A la mission Banque mondiale chargee du projet de privatisation de la
NIGELEC.
B.    Supervision du projet Energie II pour I'annee 1996
B. I   Volet "Petrole-
2.   * Tous les travaux majeurs prevus au titre de l'annee 1996 ont ete realises A savoir:
* I'achevement des travaux de mise en place du centre de documentation petroliere
et archives ainsi que le caractere operationnel des activites-cle d'archivage des
donn6es et de stockage des echantillons (ou carottes) preleves sur le terrain. II est
prevu que le responsable du centre suive, avant la cl6ture du credit, une formation
en promotion et en commercialisation de cartes geologiques et qu'un autre agent
de la direction de 1 energie soit forme sur le systeme informatise de gestion des
donnees petrolires afin de le seconder:
*  le demarrage des activites du laboratoire d'analyses et de contr6le des produits
petroliers. Le laboratoire a pu realiser un premier test qui. selon le directeur du
laboratoire. a ete bien accepte par le client,



2
* Le Ministere des Mines et de l'Energie est en negociation avec une compagnie
petroliere intemationale pour un permnis d'exploration sur le bloc Tenere; cette
demarche est le resultat de la promotion Nig6rienne soutenue par le projet.
3.    11 est a envisager que le laboratoire et le centre de documentation pourraient
s'autofinancer par la commercialisation de leurs prestations. Cependant, commne les deux
entites sont au demarrage de leurs activites, le soutien de I'administration est requis au moins
pour l'annee 1997. La Direction de l'Energie au MME a informe la mission que les charges
de fonctionnement de ces deux entites sont inscrites au budget du MME pour l'annee 1997.
4.    Par ailleurs, la Direction de 1'Energie juge necessaire une assistance technique
additionnelle du Cabinet BEICIP notamnment en matiere de suivi des compagnies
d'exploration petroliere et de promotion du potentiel petrolier Nigerien. La mission a inforrne
la Direction qu'il n existe pas de financement disponible pour ces services a court terme.
B.I    Volet "Eneraie Domestique"
B.2.1 - Administration du projet / Compte Special
5.    Suite a la mission de supervision du departement des decaissements de la Banque
mondiale, il est apparu necessaire de mettre en oeuvre les actions suivantes:
I) une reallocation des fonds du credit 1880-NIR a ete faite pour corriger une
mauvaise interpretation des lettres des 19 octobre 1994 et 31 octobre 1995 portant
sur les amendements dudit credit 1 880-NIR et qui affectait les budgets de
fonctionnement des annees 1995 et 1996 de cette composante;
2) une prorogation a 4 mois du delai de justification des depenses encourues sur le
compte special a ete accordee afin que le reapprovisionnement de ce compte
permette un decaissement a hauteur des engagements prevus avant la cl6ture du
credit. (La lettre adressee a Son Excellence M. Amadou Boubacar Cisse, Mlinistre
de IfEconomie et des Finances au sujet des points (1) et (2) est jointe en annexe I):
3) des demarches ont et menees aupres de la NIGELEC et du Ministere des Mines
*    et de l Energie pour le remboursement d'une somme de 2.000.000 FCFA sur la
composante `electricite" exige avant la demande de retrait de fonds pour le
reapprovisionnement du compte special. Les deux institutions. par leurs Directeur
General et Ministre respectivement, se sont engagees a le faire dans les meilleurs
delais;
4) la mission a transmis a la direction du projet et au cabinet concerne les
commentaires de la Banque mondiale sur le projet de rapport 1994 d'audit du
compte special et leur a rappele de transmettre dans les plus brefs delais le rapport
1995 d'audit du compte special.
B.2.2  Appreciation adn6rale du pr.^iet et participation a l'atelier de la premiere p'hase
6.    Cet atelier avait pour objectif de presenter le bilan de la premiere phase du Prolel
Energie Domestique (PED) et d'identifier les defis a relever pour assurer la perennite de s s



3
acquis dont les plus remarquables sont l'institution d'une strategie de regeneration de la
ressource forestiere axee sur la responsabilisation des populations rurales, et comme
composante integrante, l' economie et/ou substitution de l'6nergie aux points de
consommation.
7.    Les organisateurs de l'atelier pnt invite la Banque mondiale a presenter son point de
vue sur le projet a la seance d'ouverture de l'atelier. Le discours de la Banque mondiale est
joint en annexe 2.
8.    Malgre tout le succes enregistre jusqu'a date, la perennite de la strategie adoptee est
encore fragile surtout en ce moment oii il faut une progranunation importante pour effectuer
sa large diffusion afin de l'amener a un niveau adequat pour la satisfaction des besoins de la
population en bois-6nergie.
9.    Compte tenu des performnances et de 1'experience des structures de gestion et
d'implantation du PED acquise sur une periode de 7 ans, la mission estime qu'il serait
souhaitable de maintenir leurs cohesion et efficacite.
B.2.3 Etat d'avancement du projet
B.2.3. I     Amena2ement des formations naturelles
10.   La mission note avec satisfaction les informations contenues dans le bilan de l'annde
1996 relatives a la mise en place des schemas directeurs et des marches ruraux ainsi qu'a
l'entree en activite des GTA/GTI (Groupes Techniques d'Appui ou d'Inventaire) suite a des
contrats conclus entre le PED et des ONG.
11.   La mission reitere sa preoccupation, deja evoquee lors de sa mission de supervision de
1 995, concernant l'efficacite du controle forestier. La mission constate avec satisfaction que
la taxe est passee de 600 FCFA/stere a 975 FCFA/stere en 1996 et que 60 agents viennent
d'&tre recrutes pour renforcer le contr6le forestier du trafic de bois-energie comme prevu dans
le programme d'activites de l'annee 1996. M. Le Ministre de l'Hydraulique et de
I'Environnement devrait faire en sorte que l'arrete portant application du decret de revision
fiscale, sur le bois incontrole soit operationnel avant 1997.
12.   La mission reprend les commentaires des directeurs du PED relatifs a l'efficacite du
controle forestier:
"Rappelons que ce suivi de la part des agents de I 'administration de 1 'environnement
est ndcessaire pour garantir le respect des quotas et des cahiers des charges d 'exploitation
dejinis aux marchds ruraux. L'amelioration de 1'efficacite du controle forestier des fltx
commerciaux de bois-inergie en reste encore et touqours aux espoirs tel que le montrent les
diffC,renis rapporis de F. Haaser et notammeni celui redig Li I'issue de la mission du 28/04
au 12/05/96.
Dans sa conclusion. cc dernier rappelle que:



4
I) des progres ont dt6 enregistr ds au niveau des recettes et dans I alimentation du
- compte 3001;
2) des dIlais de mise en oeuvr-e des recomnnandations faites lors des missions de
1995 sont trop longs;
3) le PED devrait renforcer son action de suivi de la mise en oeuvre de ces
recommandations;
4) le bon fonctionnement du compte 3001 est la condition de confiance que peuvent
apporter les agents au systeme et rejeter par 1la meme les anciens modes de
fonctionnement;
5) le systme, dans son organisation, parait correct et perfectible. Tout depend de la
volonti politique et de  'engagement des responsables a poursuivre le processus
engage depuis 1989."
13.   La mission recommande vivement aux autorites de proceder A une augmentation de la
taxe au niveau de 1375 FCFA/stere qui est le niveau requis pour assurer l'efficacite de
l'instrument de fiscalite utilise pour r6glementer l'equilibre entre le bois controle et le bois
incontr6le.
14.   De plus, il avait ete propose lors de la mission de supervision de 1995 que le compte
30-01 du tresor public affecte au contr6le forestier soit domicilie dans une banque
commerciale, ger& de maniere autonome par la Direction de l'Environnement et soumis i un
controle periodique de l'administration centrale des finances publiques. Toutefois, aucune
discussion n'a ete officiellement engagee sur cette question entre le Ministere de l'Economie
et des Finances et celui de l'Hvdraulique et de l'Environnement. Le Ministre de I'Economie.
des Finances et du Plan saisi de cette suggestion par la mission a estime qu'elle ne poserait
pas de probleme en principe.
B.2.3,2      Economie et substitution de I'enercie
1 5.   Tel que souhaite en noveembre 1995, le PED a remis A la mission une documentation
qui compare les coCits de cuisson selon les options adoptees (bois-6nergie. petrole lampant.
{az) et a donne des indications sur les couLts de fabrication du rechaud Tchip. La mission a
apporte un complement A l1analyse comparative des coits de cuisson. Malheureusement. il y
a eu des retards dans 1'execution de i'audit des comptes et de gestion de la societe Tchip-
Import ce qui fait que la mission n'a pas eu toutes les informations souhaitees pour faire une
analyse approfondie des probl&mes de cette filiere. Cependant, on peut tout de meme
constater que:
I ) la filiere du rechaud a petrole n est pas concurrentielle comparee a celle du foyer
ameliore sur le double plan financier et economique (voir annexe 3 du present
aide-memoire);
2) la societe Tchip Import, manufacturiere des rechauds, ne semble pas viable
compte tenu du taux de p6netration actuel des rechauds (le niveau moyen des
ventes 1995-1996 des rechauds est d'environ 140 unites par mois);
3) les enquetes menees par le projet suggerent qu'une forte proportion des
beneficiaires directs de la modeste subvention accordee pour lIachat de rechauds a



5
petrole jugent cette subvention non necessaire et estiment surtout qu'elle n'est pas
de nature a influencer le choix de leur methode de cuisson;
4) a partir de ces memes enquetes, il apparait qu'une augmentation notable des
ventes de rechauds au rythme de 600 unites par mois pendant 5 ans doublee d'une
utilisation reguliere de ces equipements pour la cuisson a un tres faible impact sur
la conservation des ressources ligneuses. Toutefois, ce rythme de ventes ne pourra
etre atteint qu'apres une action commerciale tres agressive difficilement
envisageable avec l'organisation actuelle et les moyens de la societe Tchip-
Import;
5) la subvention croisee au petrole lampant deviendra de plus en plus importante au
fur et a mesure que sa consonimation augmentera et il y a lieu de craindre qu'elle
a dejA engendre des effets pervers comme le developpement de la fraude et/ou la
fragilisation du mecanisme de stabilisation des prix des produits petroliers.
16.   Du point de vue de la mission, la subvention croisee au petrole lampant a des
implications directes non seulement pour le PED, mais surtout pour la fiscalite de l Etat. La
mission recommande que le Gouvernement se saisisse de la question de subvention du petrole
lampant dans le contexte d'une revue du mecanisme de fixation des prix des prodiuits
petroliers qui sera entreprise lors des reflexions sur la restructuration de la filiere des produits
petroliers. Sans vouloir anticiper les resultats de ces travaux il convient de suggerer que les
Nigeriens devraient payer un prix pour le petrole lampant qui refl&te le couit economique de
ce produit.
17.   Tout en reconnaissant l'importance du Volet Demande pour la strategie <energie
domestique> adoptee par le Niger, la mission estime qu'il s'avere important de modifier
plusieurs aspects de sa mise en oeuvre. Les actions suivantes devront donc etre entrepn'ses:
1 ) la restructuration de la societe Tchip Import sur le double plan organisationnel et
managerial ainsi que le redressement de sa situation financiere selon les resultats
de I'audit:
2) Ilannulation de la subvention a l'achat des rechauds A petrole;
3) lintroduction d'autres intervenants du secteur prive dans la filiere des rechauds a
petrole de sorte a en diversifier les sources d'approvisionnement (par exemple
importations);
4) le developpement de la fabrication et de la diffusion des foyers amrliores du tr pe
Mai Sauki-Plus et au cas ou cela serait possible a un couit abordable 'arnelioration
de leur efficacit6 energetique;
5) le maintien de I'appui technique et publicitaire aux foyers amrliores et rechauds a
petrole;
6) tout en tenant compte des conclusions des reflexions sur la restructuration de la
filiere des produits petroliers, les activites de distribution du petrole lampant et des
equipements de substitution par les energy shops ainsi que le service apres vente
aux utilisateurs des rechauds a petrole devraient etre maintenues et conduites sur
une base commerciale;



6
7) le maintien de la collecte et le traitement des donnees relatives aux tendances des
menages en matiere de consommation d'energie ainsi que le maintien des
conditions de concurrence sur le marche energ6tique.
18.    Cette  strategie de restructuration  reconnait qu'en  meme temps que I'analyse
economique provisoire de la substitution est equivoque. (Annexe 3 de cet Aide-Memoire).
une auto-,,neration suffisante de la ressource forestiere n'est pas encore assuree. [I est donc
raisonnable de proposer un appui judicieux a la conservation et a la substitution qui privilegie
la mise en place des structures et des prix d'equipement ainsi que du combustible sur une
base economiquement saine, afin que ceux qui veulent faire de la substitution connaissent les
options disponibles et contribuent a la conservation de la ressource forestiere sans pour autant
constituer un fardeau pour les finances publiques.
C.      Recommandations pour la suite du projet Energie II - Energie domestique
19.    Lors de la mission de supervision de novembre 1995, il avait et convenu entre la
mission et les 6quipes PED et PGRN qu'une strat6gie d-integrationi/coordination devait etre
adoptee par le Niger avant le mois de juin 1996. Malheureusement, il v a eu des retirds
imprevisibles dans le demarrage des analyses necessaires a la realisation de ces objectifs.
Comme progres realise. ils ont identifie trois options possibles et choisi "loption III" qui
semble avoir V'agr6ement des ministeres de tutelle. Cette option envisage qu'il y aura
concertation au niveau de la direction des projets et sur le terrain tout en preservant
l independance des structures administratives. Ce cadre de collaboration est decrit avec de
plus amples details en annexe 4.
20.    Lors des analvses et discussions concemant la mise en oeuvre de certe approche. il est
apparu que la question etait plus complexe que pr6vu 1. Les PED et PGRN VOllt soullertre i
la Banque monodiale au piUs tard le 7 decenibre 1996 une note conjointe adoptee par lcs
\Ministeres de tutelle qui lait erat de tous les postes operationnels ou il n v aura .dUCLUO
problemne de coordination et dc'liuibilit6 au financement PGRN  ainsi que les points sur
lcsqucIs Ics possibilites et la nccessit4 de coordiinationi et dc'liigibilite au financemiienit POGRN
sont iolins evidentes. Ce docuMent devra mettre bien en evidence les details par post!S  L;
depense pour lcs activites du programme 1997 ainsi que les modalites de fonctionnemnnt
entre les deuLx projets. De plus. il servira de base ai toutes les discussions ult&rieures entetrc
autorit6s Ni-6tiriennes et la Banque.
Par exemple, la difference d'approche entre les deux projets pose le probleme d'eligibilite de cenaines
activites du volet demande au financement du PGRN notamment celles qui sont directement lices .ux
populations urbaines. En plus. les procedures d'engagement des depenses au sein du PGRN e:ant ,.*
differentes de celles du PED. quant aux modalites et au calendrier, I'integration des programmes i-
niveau retarderait la celerite dans la poursuite des activitrs du PED, ce qui constituerait un handicir a 'a
perennite des acquis actuels de ce dernier.



7
D.    Financement d'un <projet energie>
21.    Au cours des reunions, plusieurs interlocuteurs ont sonde la mission sur la possibilite
de preparer un projet dont le theme global pourrait etre le developpement de l'implication du
secteur prive dans le secteur de l'energie. Les principaux elements consisteraient en:
I ) un appui a la participation du secteur prive dans le secteur de l'electricite;
2) une rationalisation et un appui au programme de substitution en energrie
domestique;
3) une assistance A la promotion et au suivi des explorations petrolieres entreprises
par les compagnies petrolieres;
4) un developpement des initiatives du secteur prive dans la prestation de services
lies A l'economie d'energie et A la facturation de I'electricite (cette operation aura
un impact sur la reduction des factures d'energie de l'administration, ce. qui
minimiserait le risque commercial sur les foumisseurs de ces services).
2}2.   La mission a recu ces propositions avec interet et repondu que la preparation d'un
nouveau <projet energie> devrait etre discutee dans le cadre du "Country Assistance
Strategy".
E.    Rapport d'achevement de 1'execution du projet Energie II
23.   La mission avait transmis, au Ministere et a la direction du projet. avant son arrivee au
Niger, les termes de reference pour le rapport d'achevement consistant essentiellement aux
plan du document et indications de la Banque relatives aux objectifs et contenu du rapport.
Elle y avait egalement associe un projet de rapport d'achevement benevolement prepare par
Willem Floor, ancien charge du projet a la Banque.
24.   Des seances de travail ont et organisees entre le Ministere des Mlines et de l Eneraie.
Ia direction du projet et,la mission pour preciser les modalites de forme et de fonds du rapport
dachevement. La mission tient A noter l abondante documentation foumie par [es
composantes 'petrole . `energie domestique" et "'conomie/conservation de lenergie
6lectri4ue" sur lratteinte des objectifs du projet et des mesures A implanter pour en assurer la
perennite et estime que ces documents faciliteront sans aucun doute la redaction du rapport
d'achevement dont la version finale devra etre disponible avant la fin juin 1997 pour
presentation au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque mondiale. Pour la composante
"electricite", la Direction de I'Energie et la NIGELEC doivent preparer un rapport rerraqant
l historique des evenements pertinents au prograrnme NIGELEC jusqu'A l annulation de cette
composante.
25.    La direction du projet et la mission ont arrete les programme et calendrier de tra'ajil
jusqu&a l'edition de la version officielle du rapport d'achevement. Ainsi, les projets de rapport
preliminaire sont a preparer et A echanger entre la direction du projet et la Banque au plus tard
en fin janvier 1997. Les commentaires devront etre faits avant la fin fevrier 1997 afin que la
version finale du rapport d'achevement de la Banque incluant en ses annexes kes
commentaires du client soit disponible vers la fin d'avril 1997.



8
F.    Collaboration avec la mission de privatisation de la NIGELEC
26.   11 etait prevu que la mission de supervision du PEII et la mission de la privatisation de
la NIGELEC collaborent sur le terrain afin d'assurer la continuite des engagements et de
faciliter les travaux ddji agrees avec le Gouvernement lors de la mission de novembre 1995.
L'equipe de la Banque mondiale qui travaille sur le sujet de la participation du secteur privc
au secteur electrique est en train de pr6parer des options qui seront discutees avec le
Gouvemement du Niger. Cependant, il convient de noter ici que les equipes des deux
missions maintiendront leur concertation surtout au niveau de la mise en oeuvre de certains
aspects de restructuration du secteur qui sont prealables a 1'exercice de privatisation, tels que
le cadre institutionnet comprenant la definition des roles et responsabilites des intervenants, la
loi de 1'e1ectricit6, la tarification et plus generalement la regulation du secteur.
Niamey le 22 novembre, 1996



Liste des personnes rencontrees
-        lors de la mission de supervision du Projet Energie II          7
Niamey, 8 - 22 novembre 1996
1.    Membres du Gouvernement
. Son Excellence M. Amadou Boubacar Cisse, Ministre d'Etat charge de
l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan
* Son Excellence M. MaY Manga Boukar, Ministre des Mines et de l'Energie
* Son Excellence M. Labo Kada, Ministre de l'Hydraulique et de l'Environnement
2.    Ministere de I'Economie et des Finances
Cellule de Coordination de la Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques
*  M. Hamid Ahmed, Coordonnateur
Caisse de Stabilisation et de Perequation des Prix et des Produits du Niger
.   Mme Dia Bri2itte. Directrice Generale
* Mme Ali Fatouma. Directrice d'Exploitation et des Statistiques
3.    Ministere des Mines et de ['Energie
* M. Mamadou Zanguina, Directeur de l'Energie et du PE 11 - Volet Petrole
M M. Adam Melly, Secretaire General du Ministere de l'Energie
* M. Rabiou Hassane Yari, Direction de l'Energie
M. Mounkaila El. Moussa, Chef de Service Central de l'Electricite
* M. Boubacar Oumarou, Chef du Centre de Documentation Petroliere et Archives
*  M. Djibe Mounkaila, Chef du Laboratoire d'Analyses et de Controle des produits
petroliers
M .M. Boubacar Nalando. Chef Service Hydrocarbures p.i.
4.    Ministere de l'Hvdraulique et de l'Environnement
*  M. Abdou Daoure, Conseiller Technique du Ministre
M. Laouli Ada, Directeur National de I'Environnement
* M. Wata Issoufou. Direction de l'Environnement
* M. Abdelkader Rene Joly, Chef CAF, Direction de l'Environnement
M. Sani Salissou, Gestionnaire du Compte 30-01, Direction de l'Environnement
* Lieutenant Toure Adamnou. Commandant Adjoint BTPN
a Lieutenant Almadjin Mamane, Chef DIC/BTPN
5.    Projet Energie II - Energie Domestique
M. Kiri Tounao. Directeur du Volet Demande
M. Dan Baria SournaYla, Directeur du Volet Offre
M. Pierre Montagne. Conseiller Technique du Volet Offre
M. Tiemou Issoufou, Chef Service Technique du Volet Demande
M. Bachard Aboubacar, Chef Serv. Evaluation des Programmes - Volet Demande



/o
*  M. Mamoudou Hamadou, Directeur Adjoint du Volet Offre
* M. Dan Mirria Sani, Chef Comptable du Projet Energie Domestique
* M. Idrissa Madougou, Directeur General de la Societe Tchip Import
* M. Hadi Goni Boulama, Directeur du Cabinet d'audit EFIC
6.    Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (PGRN)
* M. Karbo Atahirou, Specialiste en Suivi Ecologique
* M. Guero Idi, Specialiste des Ressources en Eau
* M. Elhadji Maman Saadou, Specialiste des Ressources Fauniques, Forestieres et
Halieutiques
7.    Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite (NIGELEC)
* M. Mamane Amadou Laouali, Directeur General
* M. Amadou Zakhou, Directeur des Etudes et de l'Equipement
*  M. Adamou Boukari, Directeur Technique
- M, Laouali Abdou, Directeur Financier et Comptable
*  Mi. Arzika Nahamadou, Direction des Etudes et de l'Equipement
* M. Moustapha. Chef Service Gros Abonnes
8.    Societe Nig&rienne de Produits Petroliers (SONIDEP)
M I. Souleymane Hamadou, Secretaire General
M. Boulama Manga. Inspecteur General
* M. Katzenfort J. Pierre, Directeur des Exploitations
9.    Bureau de Cooperation Danoise (DANIDA)
* Mime Astrid AQerholm Danielsen, Chef de Section
Division d'Afrique de l'Ouest et de l'Est
Minist&re Royal des Affaires Etrangeres du Danemarkl
* Mme Sophia Maestrup. Representante au Niger
10.   Assistance Technique SEED-CIRAD
* M. Gerard Madon. Consultant
* M. Michel Matly, Consultant
11.   Kestrel Cyptus Limited
* M. Stuart Beattv. General Manager



/
The World Bank                                        1818 H Street N.W.       (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL SANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANO DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVEkOPMENT ASSOCIATION                 U.S,A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS
le l S novembre. 1996
Son Excellence
Monsieur Amadou Boubacar Cisse
Miinistre
Ministere du Finance et du Plan
Niamey
Republique du Niger
Objet:       NIGER:          Credit 1880-NIR - Projet Energie II
Prorogation de la date de justification des fonds
Reallocation des fonds
Monsieur le Ministre:
Suite aux discussions entres les responsables du projet Energie II et 1'equipe du projet de
la Banque mondiale. et compte tenu du delai extremement limite imparti avant la cl6ture
du credit prevu pour le 31 decembre 1996. nous avons l'honneur de-vous inforrnm  que
l' IDA n'a pas d'objection a prolonger le delai de justification des depenses sur le compte
special de la composante 6nergie domestique (Partie A. categories 5(a) et 5(b) de l'accord
de credit) de quatre mois au-dela du 31 decembre 1996 pour les depenses authorisees qui
sonit encourues et les biens et services rendus avant le 31 decembre 1996.
Nous avons e alement l'honneur de vous informer qu'aux fins de F'Annexe 1 de i'-\ccord
de Credit. FIDA par la presente corrige l'allocation des fonds du Credit par Cat&gorie
tclle que definie dans la lettre du 31 octobre 1995. En effet. "I'Annexe I jointe a cette
derni&re ne refletait pas le niveau des depenses qui devaient etre effectuees au titre des
ann6es 1995 et 1996. line copie de F'Aninexe 1. "Retrait des fonds du Credit-. nmoJ'ifi-e
est attachee ci-joint.
cuillez a-zreer. MNonsieur le .Ministre. 1'expression de ma haute consideration.
Ed"      r
Representant Resident
cc. Son Excellence Monsieur Mai Manga Boukar
Ministre des JMlines et de F'Energie
Son Excellence Monsieur Labo Kada
Ministre de V'Hvdraulique et de l'Environnement
RCA 248423 L. WUI 64145 :_ FAX (2021 4776-391



ANNEXE I
Retrait des Fonds du Cr6dit
Cat6corie                                   Montant affcctc       % des depenses financ6
exprime en DTS
(I ) Partie B du Projet                    pour memoire. composante e1ectricite deja cl6tur6e
(2) Partie C du Projet
(a) Services de consultants et             2.590.000                  100 %
formation a 1'exception de la                                  des d6penses
Partie C.5.                                                      en devises-
(b) Services de consultants pour la          100.000                  100 zoo
Partie C.5.                                                    des depenses
en devises
(c) Materiel et services connexes            100.000                  100 %.
d'installations a 1'exception de
la partie C.5.
(3) Reemboursemiient de I .Avance pour la          400.000             Montant du en x eatu
Pfleparation du Projet                                             de la Sectioil 2.02 (C.
du present acc;d.
(4) Non alloue                                      710.000
(5) Pvrtie A du Projet
(a)  lat6riel et services connexes          ()0.000                   1(1 '
d installation
(b) Services de consultants.               1 .700.000                 1 00 n
formnation et frais de
fonctionnement (salaires de
contractuels. indemnites
diverses au personnel et frais
tt6neraux)



rI ov /V ki >   .43
Communication de la Banque mondiale
a l'occasion de I'Atelier de Ia Premiere Phase
du Projet Energie Domestique
Madame et Messieurs les Ministres
Madame la Representante de DANIDA par interim
Monsieur le Sous-Prefet et Chef de Poste Administratif
Honorables Chefs Traditionnels
Honorables Invites
Madames et Messieurs
It est pour nous un privilege d'avoir ete invite A prendre la parole A l'occasion de cet
evenement tres important pour le Niger. En effet, le projet Energie Domestique a et con,u et
mis en oeuvre par des Nigeriens et pour le bien-etre des Nigariens.
La Banque mondiale etait associee au Projet des son demarrage, en premiere instance comme
administrateur d'un don de la cooperatioon Danoise. et depuis 1995 comme principal bailleur
de fonds.
Du point de vue de la Banque mondiale, ce projet repond dune maniere diligente et tangible
aux g rands objectifs du developpement socio-economique. non seulement au Nizer mais
egalement dans la region du Sahel sur une plus grande echelle. Le projet vise A resoudre les
problemes directement lies A:
I la degradation de la ressource forestiere,
* Ia responsabilisation des populations rurales dans la conservation et la reg6n6ration de la
ressource,
* la'distribution des benefices du developpement directement aux populations rurales. et
l'approvisionnement au moindre coCit des populations rurales et urbaines en energie
domestique.
Ce projet. qui a comrnmence comme <projet pilote>. est en voie de devenir une approche
d'envergure nationale pour repondre aux besoins les plus pressants dans ce domaine. Le cadre
institutionnel et les methodes de mise en oeuvre du projet se sont continuellement ameliores
et constituent au)ourd'hui une reference dans la sous-region.



/4
Par ailleurs, 1'esprit de collaboration qui a prevalu au sein de I'equipe de gestion du projet
ainsi qu'entre leurs Minist6res de tutelle a fortement contribue aux acquis importants de ce
projet. Tout au long de son execution, le projet a et tres bien administre. et a su developper
au sein des populations rurales un esprit d'appropriation qui est de nature a assurer la
perennite des modes de fonctionnement mis en place.
Parallelement, l'objectif de conservation de la ressource est vise par une action dont le but est
de reduire au niveau des populations urbaines les besoins en energie primaire pour la cuisson.
Ceci a et mis en oeuvre par une serie de mesures A caractere innovateur et experimental qui
ont 6galement leurs acquis et dont vous aurez largement A debattre au cours de vos travaux. IL
convient de souligner en cette occasion l'utilite d'intervenir d'une maniere economique et
strat6gique non seulement sur la production. mais aussi sur la consommation de 1'energie.
Sur le plan des ressources humaines, il est note avec grande satisfaction le renforcement
endogene de l'expertise nig6rienne dans tous les domaines de l'administration et de 1'exercice
des maintes activites qui font partie integrante de la strategie <energie domestique>. Cette
expertise est a sauvegarder. A promouvoir, et A mettre au service du plus grand nombre
possible de Nigeriens et des peuples des pays limitrophes.
Enfin. sur le plan educatif. le projet a produit une abondante documentation de haute qualite
ainsi qu'un svsteme de donnees informatise qui perrnet le suivi A long terme de ces initiatives.
Ces outils sont d'une tres grande utilite pour tous ceux qui sont interesses par le sujet ou
impliques dans des travaux A caractere similaire. A ce niveau c'est encore un atout a
preserver.
La Banque mondiale vous souhaite un seminaire fructueux et une bonne continuation de vos
travaux.
Niamey, le 19 novembre 1996.



4/v,t/EfE 3
/sS
Comparaison des couits de cuisson
Note explicative des calculs
La comparaison des couts de cuisson est faite sur les plans financier et economique.
Les couts de cuisson integrent essentiellement le coGit du rechaud (foyer arneliore ou
rechaud a petrole) et le couit du combustible (bois-energie ou petrole).
A - Comparaison des coats de cuisson sur le plan financier
Cette comparaison est presentee au niveau des colonnes C (foyer arneliore ou FA) et
D (rechaud a petrole ou Tchip) des differentes feuilles ci-apres jointes.
A. I - Calcul du cout du rechaud
a) Chaque manage achete deux modeles - un petit, un grand - d'un tvpe de rechaud
pour la cuisson:
b) Le prix des foyers ameliores est C3.
c) -Le prix des rechauds Tchip est D3 (prix au consommateur apres subvention).
d) L'amortissement annuel est donne par C5 ou par D5 en considerant un taus
d'interet annuel (taux d'actualisation social) de 10%.
e) Le coat annuel des pieces de rechange pour le rechaud a petrole est donne par D6
et calcule en supposant que les 36 meches (pour modeles 12 et 24 meches) au
coat unitaire de FCFA 1300/36 sont renouvelees six fois par annee.
f) Le coat annuel total hors combustible des rechauds est donne respectivement par
C7, D7: =C5-C6: D5-D6.
g) Le coat par MJU hors combustible est determine par C8, D8: = C7/B 12. D7/B12
en faisant I'hvpoth&se que chaque menage a besoin de 3165 MJUl (B12) pour la
cuisson par an.
A.2 - Calcul dii couit du combustible
a) Le prix de detail du combustible (bois-energie pour FA et petrole pour Tchip) est
donne par C15, D15 (les valeurs sont tirees du rapport Matly)
b). Le pouvoir calorifique du combustible est exprime en MJ/kg et est donne par C16,
D16 (les valeurs sont tirees du rapport Matly)
c) Le rendement (ou 1'efficacite) de la combustion est donne par C17, D17 (les
valeurs sont tirees du rapport Matly)
d) Le coCit du combustible par MJU est donne par C18 ou D18: = C15/(C16*C17) ou
D15/(D16*D17).
A.3 - Comparaison des couits financiers de cuisson
Le couit total de cuisson par MJU est egal a la somme du couit du rechaud par MJU et
du cout du combustible par MJU et donne par C20 ou D20: = C8+ C 18 ou D8 + D 18.



A.4 - Calcul du coat du rechaud Tchip              
Dans la comparaison des couts financiers de cuisson, il est pris en compte pour le
rechaud Tchip le prix au consommateur subventionne. L'objectif vise par la presente
section est de determiner le cout reel moyen d'un rechaud Tchip en fonction du
rythme de production et des diffdrentes charges d'exploitation de la societe Tchip
Import ainsi que des marges de distribution.
a) La societe Tchip Import a contracte une dette aupres du projet Energie II qu'elle
doit rembourser par mensualite d'un montant egal a: B23
b) La societe Tchip Import a contracte une dette aupres de la Caisse Francaise de
Developpement qu'elle doit rembourser par mensualite d'un montant egal a: B24
c) Le service de la dette par mois est donc B25: = B23 +B24
d) Le nombre de rechauds vendus est de: B26 (nombre moyen par mois en 1995/96)
e) Le colat fixe par rechaud (12 et 24 meches confondus) est donc B27: = B25/B26
f) Le cofit moven d'exploitation (qui represente les charges variables) par rechaud
est egal a B28 (il est obtenu en faisant la moyenne des charges variables, excluant
I'amortissement et les frais financiers. relatives aux rechauds 12 et 24 meches
regroupees dans le Tableau 1 du rapport Bilan 1996).
g) Les marges de vente B29 regroupent les marges des producteur, grossiste et
detaillant et sont determinees par la moyenne des marges sur les rechauds 12 et 24
meches tirees du Tableau 2 du rapport Bilan 1996.
h) Le cout moyen total par rechaud (12 et le 24 meches confondus) est donc eQal
B30: = B27+B28, B29.
Observation analvtiquie: La production/distribuition de 2 r4chauds par nidnagie gin&re pouri
la sociere Tchip Import 21500 FCFA de chiffre d'affaires ( 6500 FCFA pour le prix de clute
plies subventions (provenant du projet Energie ll) de 5000 FCFA pour les deux 111odles,:
pourtant. al rythnie de production actuel de 140 rdchauds par inois. Ie coit .Ie
vente/distribution des dezux inodles touttes marges comprises et subventions exclues dqzxzs.s
50000 FCF4 (cozit ;noYen par r&chaud (B30) de 25866 FCFA * 2). Le man que a gagner .st
donc de 28500 FCF4 pour detu rkchauds vendus. et on peut y voir une des raisonis rouer
lesqueliles 1 'eltrepr ise n? 'a put r embourser sa dette de 28600 FCFA sur deuLx rkhauds c/: .v
Lu certains temps.
B - Comparaison des couits de cuisson sur le plan economique
Cette comparaison est presentee au niveau des colonnes E (foyer ameliore ou FA) et F
(rechaud a petrole ou Tchip) des differentes feuilles ci-apres jointes.
B. I - Calcul du cout du rechaud
Pour le calcul du coat du rechaud Tchip (futur) a prendre en compte pour la
comparaison des cofits economiques. on fait les hvpotheses suivantes:
a) la dette contractee aupres du projet Enereie 11 et de la CFD est exclue:
b) la societe a un rvthme de production-vente de 600 rechauds par mois permeitant
de mettre en "utilisation" 35000 unites environ chez 1 7,500 menages d'ici 5 ans.



c) les coats d'exploitation et marges sont maintenus a leur niveau actuel et donnes
par C28, C29
d) le cout economique moyen d'un rechaud (12 et 24 meches confondus) est par
consequent de C30 = C28+C29.
La methode de calcul du coat economique du rechaud est semblable a celle adopt6e
pour le calcul du coat financier.
a) Le cofit par MJU (hors combustible) est donne par E8 pour le FA;
b) Le coCit moyen du rechaud Tchip (12 et 24 meches par menage) est F3: = C30*2.
c) L'amortissement annuel est donne par F5 en considerant un taux d'interet annuel
(taux d'actualisation social) de 10%.
d) Le couit annuel des pieces de rechange est semblable a celui determine pour la
comparaison des coats financiers et egal a F6
e) Le coCit annuel total hors-combustible pour le rechaud Tchip est de F7: = F5+F6
f) Le coat par MJU hors-combustible est donc de F8 := F7/B 12.
B,2 - Calcul du coat du combustible
a) Le couit du bois-energie est determine a partir du prix <calcul financier> augmente
du couit de contr6le (recommandation de SEED) et egal a E15.
b) Le couit du petrole-lampant est determine a partir de F15 = 136 = prix officiel de
litre (B34) moins 20% de frais non-economique (C34) pour obtenir le couit
economique net par litre (D34), qui est lui-meme traduit en cocut conomique par
kg egal a D36: = D34JD35. [Note: B34 represente le couit d'approvisionnement
Sirl, le mar-chen mondial auquel on ajoute lesfrais d 'entreposage et de transport de
la c6te a NViamev ainsi quie les tares. La feuille <Filiaire Nigeria> demontre les
n7n7es calcul/s avec colit d 'approvisionnement sur le marche informel nigerian.]
c) Le pouvoir calorifique (exprim6 en MJ/kg) du combustible et le rendement de
combustion sont identiques a ceux utilises pour le calcul financier (F16, F17).
d) Le coat de combustible par MJU est donc egal a E1S ou F18: = E15/(E16*E 17)
ou F15/(F16*F17).
B.3 - Comparaison des couts economiques de cuisson
Le coat total de cuisson par MJU est donne par E20 ou F20: = E8 +E 1 8 ou F8 + F I S.
Observaiion: Le coil iconoinique de cuisson avec les FA etant de 6.96 FCFA/MfJU et cell
obtenu en utilisant le ricchaud Tchip erant de 17.5 FCFA/AJU, il y a lieu de subventionner
fortement le petrore lampant. tel que ddniontrd en colonne G. si l'on ddsire ramener le colit
de cuissoJ7 par rechaud Tchip C un niveau concurrentiel a celui obtenu pour la cuisson avv'
FA.
B.4 - Calcul de la subvention accordee au petrole lampant:
a) Le cout 6conomique du petrole lampant par kg est egal a G23: =D36



b) Le prix d'equilibre du petrole lampant est donne par: G24: = (E20-F8)*GI6*G17
[016 et G17: = MJ/kg et rendement]. [La marge par MJU disponible pour le
combustible est la difference entre le coCit economique total de cuisson par la
methode, FA et le cout economique du rechaud Tchip par MJU utile hors
combustible. Cette marge par MJU est ensuite convertie en FCFA par kg de
petrole lampant].
c) La subvention par kg de petrole lampant est donc de G25: = G23-G24.
d) L'equivalent en kg de petrole lampant des besoins en MJU par menage et par
annee est egal a: G26: = BI2/(G16*G17).
e) Le nombre de menages au bout des 5 annees correspondant a l'utilisation reguliere
des 600 rechauds vendus mensuellement est egal a G27.
f) La quantite totale de petrole lampant (exprimee en kg) correspondant au nombre
de menages determines au point (e) est de G28: = G26*G27.
g) Le montant total de la subvention est egal a G29: = G25*G28 [G30 en dollars en
considerant que FCFA 500 = un (1) dollar].
h) La subvention par MJU de petrole lampant est de G33: = G25/(F16*F17).
i) Le cofit economique du bois-energie par MJU est = El 8.
j) Le ratio subvention MJU petrole par cofit MJU bois est egal A: G35 = G33/G34.
Observation: La subvention au petrole lampant depasse tres largement la valeur economique
totale du bois-energie.
Si l'on base toute la comparaison economique sur l'hypoth&se que le couit de petrole
lampant etait deterrnine a partir du prix de contrebande a la frontiere du Nigeria
augmente d'une marge substantielle integrant evidemment les cofits de transport
jusqu'a Niamev. il v a toujours necessite de subvention pour equilibrer les couits de
cuisson entre le bois-energie et le petrole lampant mais la subvention est moins
importante comme le montre la feuille de calcul jointe ( feuille 2 "Filiere Nigeria").
C - E-valuation de l'impact sur la conservation des ressources ligneuses
Lobjectif de cette section est d'estimer le taux annuel de substitution realise par
l'utilisation reguliere du petrole lampant par l'ensemble des menages precedemment
determin6.
a) Le nombre de menages est egal a B39: = G27
b) Le nombre de MJU par menage est de B40: = B12
c) Le nombre total de MJU est egal a B41: = B39*B40
d) Le nombre de lonnes bois-equivalent est donne par B42: = B41/(C16*C17*1000).
e) La consommation totale de bois-energie en 1995 est de B43 (doc. PED)
f) Le taux maximum de substitution est donc egal a B44: = B42/B43.
Observation: Toutes choses egales par ailleurs. le taux de substitution serait moindre d ici S
aiis parce quc, la consoimmation de base auraii cru entretemps. La substitution au rythme de
600 rechauds par mois - donc superieur a quatrefois le rythme de vente observe par le passe,
- aurait un impact mnodeste sur la conservation du bois.



D - Comparaison economique entre les coGits de cuisson avec le petrole lampant
filiere officiclle et ceux obtenus avec le charbon de bois
Le cou1t du charbon de bois livre A Niamey est calcule aux lignes 47 a 55 (feuille 3):
a) Pour un (1) kg du charbon de bois B47, il est requis B48 kg de bois-energie
(source rapport Ghana).
b) La quantite de bois-energie (en kg) requise par kg charbon est B49: = B47*B48.
c) Le coCit economique du kg de bois-energie au marche rural (source fax Madon) est
egal a B50.
d) Le couit total de bois-energie par kg de charbon de bois est de B51:= B49*B5O.
e) Les autres couts de production par kg de charbon de bois (source Ghana) sont
donnes par B52
f) Le couit total par kg de charbon de bois a la sortie du marche rural est de B53:
B51+B52
g) Les coCits de transport et marges de distribution par kg de charbon de bois sont
donnes par B54
h), Le cout de kg de charbon de bois vendu au d6tail A Niamey est B55: = B53+B54.
Observation: Sur le plan economique, le cou2t pour la cuisson au charbon de bois se
situe a peu pres a ni-chemin entre le cou^t de cuisson avec le FA et celui obtenu avec
le rechaud Tchip. Cependant, si tous les besoins en energie de cuisson des I 7,500
nminages sont satisfaits par le recours systdmatique au charbon de bois, l 'impact sur
la conservation des ressources ligneuses serait grand etant donne le mauvais taux de
conversion du bois-inergie en charbon de bois.
E - Comparaison economique entre les couits de cuisson avec le petrole lampant
filiere Nigeria et ceux obtenus avec le charbon de bois (feuille 4)
Tous les calculs sur cette feuille sont les memes que sur la feuille 3. exception faite
pour le cout du petrole lampant qui est celui de la feuille 2 (cocit economique du
petrole lampant).
Observation: n1 est moins couteux sur le plan economique de cuisiner en utilisant Ie
petrole lampant provenant du Nigeria. plut6t qu 'en utilisant le charboni de bois.
Conclusions:
Les differents calculs et enquetes permettent de tirer les conclusions suivantes:
>  La cuisson au petrole lampant (filiere officielle) n est pas concurrentielle a celle
utilisant le bois-energie et les foyers ameliores. mais elle devient concurentielle
aussit6t que le petrole lampant provient du marche informel nigerian, et qu elle est
comparee A la cuisson avec le charbon de bois.



2C
L' impact de la filiere rechaud a petrole sur la conservation des ressources
ligneuses serait modeste, excepte dans le cas oui le petrole lampant se substitue au
charbon de bois. En effet, la consommation evitee de bois passe de 6.5%/an a
23%/an. .
= Le rechaud a petrole n'est pas une option abordable pour la population a faible
revenu.
Niamey, le 17 novembre, 1996



2J
Comparaison CoOts de Cuisson
A            B         C    |     ZD       E         F         G
I                             Calcul financier   Calcul economique
2 Rechaud                        F.A.     Tchip     F.A.     Tchip
3 Investissement    F              2050    16500      2050    23050
4 Vie               annees            2         4        2         4
5 Amortissement    F/an            1181      5205     1181      7272
6 Pieces            F/an              0      7800        0      7800
7 Cout x-combust.  F/an            1181    13005      1181    15072
8 Cout unitaire     F/MJ utile     0.37      4.11      0.37     4.76
9 taux d'interest.        0.1
10 taux amortissem               0.57619  0.315471   0.57619 0.315471
11 meches:                                   1300               1300
12 MJu/an                3165
13                                                                      petrole
14 Combustible                                                        prix-subv.
15 Prix detail      F/kg             25       165        28   232.91        40.2
16 Calories         MJ/kg             17      45.7       17      45.7       45.7
17 Rendement        %               0.25       0.4     0.25       0.4        0.4
18 Cout unitaire    F/MJ utile      5.88      9.03     6.59     12.74       2.20
19.
20 Cout total       FIMJ utile      6.26     13.14     6.96    17.50        6.96
211
22 Rechauds Tchip    actuel    futur              Calcul Subvention petrole:
23 pret A*            1000000          0          Cout economique/kg      232.91
24 pret B*            1007733          0          Prix avec subvention     40.21
25 Total prets'       2007733          0          Subvention/kg.          192.70
26 ventes (unites)*        140      600           kg/menage /an           173.14
27 Cout/1 fixe          14341          0          # menages                17500
28 Cout/1 expl.          8100      8100           kg total               3029951
29 Marges distribution   3425      3425           Cout de subvention  583,886,372
30 Cout/I total         25866     11525                       SUS      1,167,773
31 *(valeurs par mois)
32
33 Petrole:cout ec.  prix officiel % frais n-e   cout  Subvention MJU:     10.54
34 le litre               230        0.2      184 Cout econ. bois           6.59
35 kg/litre                                   0.79 Ratio subventon/bois     1 60
36 Cout econlkg:                           232.91
37 
38 Conservation bois-energie:
39 menages affectes     17500
40 MJU/menage            3165                     Evaluation sommaire:
41 MJU total         55387500                     Criteres:
42 tonnes bois-equiv.    13032                    economique:        non
43 consommation an.  . 200000                     conservabon:       faible
44 taux de substitution  0.0651                   impact sur pauvrete: non



Comparaison Couts de Cuisson                    Filiere Nigeria
tA       |   B          C    |   D          E    |   F          G
I                              Calcul financier    Calcul economique
2 Rechaud                         F.A.     Tchip      F.A.     Tchip
3 Investissement     F              2050    16500       2050    23050
4 Vie                annees            2         4         2         4
5 Amortissement      F/an           1181      5205      1181     7272
6 Pieces             F/an              0      7800         0     7800
7 Cout x-combust.   F/an            1181    13005       1181    15072
8 Cout unitaire      F/MJ utile      0.37     4.11      0.37      4.76
9taux d'interest.          0.1
10 taux amortissem                0.57619  0.315471   0.57619 0.315471
1 1meches:                                    1300                1300
12 MJu/an                 3165
13                                                                       petrole
14 Combustible                                                          prix-subv.
15 Prix detail       F/kg              25       165       28    113.92        40.2
16 Calories          MJ/kg             17      45.7       17      45.7        45.7
17 Rendement         %               0.25       0.4      0.25      0.4         0.4
18 Cout unitaire     FIMJ utile      5.88      9.03      6.59     6.23        2.20
20 Cout total        FIMJ utile      6.26     13.14      6.96    10.99        6.96
21
22 Rechauds Tchip  3  actuel      futur             Calcul Subvention petrole:
23 pret A'             1000000          0          Cout economiquelkg       113.92
24 pret B*              1007733         0           Prix avec subvention     40.21
25 Total prets*        2007733          0           Subvention/kg.           73.72
26 ventes (unites)*         140       600          kgIm6nage /an            173.14
27 CoutV1 fixe            14341         0          # menages                 17500
28 CoutIl expl.            8100      8100          kg total               3029951
29 Marges distribution     3425      3425           Cout de subvention  223,360,584
30 Cout/i total          25866      11525                        $US      446,721
31 '(valeurs par mois)
32
33 Petrole ex Nigeria  frontiere   marges   cout   Subvention MJU:            4.03
34 le litre                  30        60        90 Cout econ. bois           6.59
35 kgAlitre                                    0.79 Ratio subvention/bois     0.61
36 Cout econ/kg:                             113.92
371 
38 Conservation bois-energie:
39 menages affectes       17500
40 MJU/menage             3165                      Evaluation sommaire:
41 MJU total          55387500                     Criteres:
42 tonnes bois-equiv.     13032                     economique:        non
43 consommation an.     200000                     conservation:       faible
44 taux de substitution   0.065                     impact sur pauvrete: non



Comparaison coOts de cuisson                    Charbon de bois
=       A         |   13 AC    | D                  E    |  -F          G
1                             Calcul financier    Calcul economique
2 Rechaudi                       F.A.     Tchip   Ch. bois   Tchip
3 Investissement    F              2050    16500      4400    23050
4 Vie               annees            2         4         2        4
5 Amortissement    F/an            1181      5205      2535     7272
6 Pieces            F/an              0      7800         0     7800
7 Cout x-combust.  F/an            1181    13005      2535    15072
8 Cout unitaire     FJMJ utile     0.37      4.11      0.80      4.76
9 taux d'interest.        0.1
10 taux amortissem               0.57619 0.315471   0.57619 0.315471
1 1meches:                                   1300                1300
12 MJu/an                3165
13                                                                      petrole
14 Combustible                                                         prix-subv.
15 Prix detail      F/kg              25      165       69.1   232.91       138.1
16 Calories         MJ/kg             17      45.7       30      45.7        45.7
17 Rendement        %               0.25       0.4       0.2      0.4         0.4
18 Cout unitaire    FIMJ utile      5.88      9.03     11.52    12.74        7.56
19                                                 
20 Cout total       F/MJ utile      6.26     13.14     12.32    17.50       12.32
21
22 Rechauds Tchip    actuel    futur              Calcul Subvention petrole:
23 pret A-             1000000         0          Cout economique/kg       232.91
24 pret B _            1007733         0          Prix avec subvenbon      138.12
25 Total prets^       2007733          0          Subvention/kg.            94.79
26 ventes (unites)*        140       600          kg/menage /an            173.14
27 CouU1lfixe            14341         0          # menages                17500
28 Couttl expl.           8100      8100          kg total               3029951
29 Marges distribution    3425      3425          Cout de subvention  287,217,046
30 Couti total      1   258661    115251                       SUS        574,434
31 '(valeurs par mois)
32
33 Petrole:cout ec.  prix officiel % frais n-e   cout   Subvention MJU:      5.19
34 le litre                230       0.2      184 Cout econ charb-bois      11.52
35 kg/litre                                   0.79 Ratio subvention/bois     0.45
36 Cout econ/kg:                            232.91
37
38 Conservation bois-energie:
39 menages affectes      17500
40 MJU/menage             3165                    Evaluation sommaire:
41 MJU total          55387500                    Criteres:
42 tonnes bois-equiv.    46156                    economique:         non
43 consommation an.    200000                     conservation:       important
44 taux de substitution  0.231                    impact sur pauvrete:  modeste
46 Cout Charbon de bo,is Nbamey:
47 kg charbon de bois      1.0
48 taux de conversion      5.0    Ghana
49 kg bois                 5.0
50 bois F/kg au MR         8.4    Madon
51 cout bois/kg charb     41.8
52 autres couts/kg         7.3    Ghana
53 cout tot. charbon      49.1
54 transp.+ marges        20.0
55 cout charb Niamey      69.1



Comparaison coOt de cuisson      Filiere Nigeria et Charabon de bois
A            B         C         D         E                   G
1                             Calcul financier    Calcul economique
2 Rechaud                        F.A.     Tchip   Ch. bois   Tchip
3 Investissement    F              2050    16500       4400    23050
4 Vie               annees            2         4         2        4
5 Amortissement    F/an            1181      5205      2535     7272
6 Pieces            F/an              0      7800         0     7800
7 Coutx-combust.  F/an             1181    13005       2535    15072
8 Cout unitaire     FIMJ utile      0.37     4.11      0.80      4.76
9 taux d'interest.        0.1
10 taux amortissem               0.57619  0.315471   0.57619 0.315471
11 meches:                                   1300                1300
12 MJu/an                 3165
13                                                                      petrole
14 Combustible                                                         prix-subv.
15 Prix detail      F/kg              25       165      69.1   113.92       138.1
16 Calories         MJ/kg             17      45.7       30      45.7        45.7
17 Rendement        %               0.25       0.4       0.2      0.4         0.4
18 Cout unitaire    FIMJ utile      5.88      9.03     11.52     6.23        7.56
20 Cout total       FIMJ utile      6.26     13.14     12.32    10.99       12.32
21_.
22 Rechauds Tchip    actuel    futur              Calcul Subvention petrole:
23 pret A'             1000000         0          Cout economique/kg       113.92
24 pret B*             1007733         0          Prix avec subvention     138.12
25 Total prets-       2007733          0          Subvention/kg.           -24.19
26 ventes (unites)*        140       600          kg/m6nage /an            173.14
27 CoutUl fixe           14341         0          #menages                 17500
28 CoutU1 expl.           8100      8100          kg total               3029951
29 Marges distribution    3425      3425          Cout de subvention  -73,308,742
30 Cout/1 total     1   258661   115251                        SUS       -146,617
31 -(valeurs par mois)
32
33 Petrole:cout ec.  prix officiel % frais n-e   cout   Subventon MJU:      -1.32
34 le litre                 30        60       90 Cout econ charb-bois      11.52
35 kg/litre                                   0.79 Ratio subvention/bois    -0.11
36 Cout econ/kg:                            113.92
37
38 Conservation bois-energie:
39 menages affectes      17500
40 MJUJmenage             3165                    Evaluation sommaire:
41 MJU total         55387500                     Criteres:
42 tonnes bois-equiv.    46156                    economique:         oui
43 consommation an.    200000                     conservation:       important
44 taux de substitution  0.231                    impact sur pauvrete: modesto
45   
46 CoOt Charbon de bois.i Niamey:
47 kg charbon de bois      1.0
48 taux de conversion      5.0    Ghana
49 kg bois                 5.0
50 bois F/kg au MR         8.4    Madon
51 cout bois/kg charb     41.8
52 autres couts/kg         7.3    Ghana
53 cout tot. charbon      49.1
54 transp.+ marges        20.0
55 cout charb Niamey      69.1
11/22/98 1n 4 ARA



RESUME DU SCENARIO N03
AU NIVEAU GENERAL
+     Tutelles ministrielles differentes associees dans un comite de pilotage unique comportant
notamment des representants des ministeres charges de l'Agriculture, de l'Environnement
et de l'Energie.
*     Fonds engages par l'Ordonnateur delegue (DFI) sur la base de demandes de
remboursement respectant les contraintes d'engagement de chaque operation. Les budgets
et les non objection seront approuves par les charges de mission de la Banque Mondiale.
*     Fonctionnement des projets independants, compte tenu des imperatifs de teiTains et de
l'etat d'avancement fondamentalement different des deux (2) operations.
*     Pour ce faire, les equipes d'execution seront differentes et les budgets separes.
*     Le cadre de coordination sera evolutif et pourra s'affiner au fur et a mesure de
'e.xp6rience acquise et des habitudes de travail en commun sur le telTain. Le cornit6 de
pilotage aura. dans ce contexte, un r6le incitatif fondamental.
*     Pour ce qui est du SEEP, les responsables du SIRN, apres avoir etabli leurs propres
programmes de travail seront amen6s a proposer le cadre de collaboration adequat a
1'equipe SIEP du PEII-ED.
AU NIVEAU LOCAL
*     Dans les zones d'inteivention actuelles du PEII-ED ( arrondissements non PGRN),
poursuite de la mnise en oeurTe de la SED selon les recornmandations des SDA par les
dquipes d'Energie II et identification, par des equipes mixtes (PGRN-ED), des possibilites
offeirtes par le volet Appui aux autres projets " du PGRN.
*     Dans les zones d'intervention commrunes PGRN-PEII/ED: (i) villages disposants de
marches ruraux: identification, par des equipes associant les EMP du PGRN et les
Antennes d'Energie II, des actions GRN envisageables en aval des marches nuraux. (ii)
dans les villages ne pouvant pas disposer de marches ruraux, developpement par le PGRN
d'e ses programmes de developpement villageois; (iii) dans les villages oii il est possible
de creer des marches ruraux mais oiu cela n'est pas encore le cas pour des raisons de
capacites operationnelles du PEII-ED, mise en place de programmes conjoints
d'identification d'actions et lancement a partir de financements mixtes.
*     Dans les zones d'intervention PGRN, intervention du PEII-ED a la dernande des EMP du
PGRN pour envisager la mise en place de marches ruraux en tenant compte de la
planification spatiale deja elaboree par Energie II dans les SDA.






IMAGING
Report No.:          16734
Type:     ICR



