                                   Documentof
                               The World Bank




                                                   ReportNo.: 32149




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                     NIGER

                              ENERGY PROJECT
                               (CREDIT1880-NIR)


                                  April 15,2005




Sector, Thematicand Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =CFAfranc

1988                     US$l.oo                CFA franc 267.2
1989                      US$l.OO               CFA franc 203.9
1990                      US$l.oo               CFA franc 289.5
1991                      US$l.oo               CFA franc 260.6
1992                      US$l.OO               CFA franc 259.2
1993                      US$1.oo               CFA franc 275.5
1994                      US$l.OO               CFA franc 291.8
1995                      US$l.oo               CFA franc 544.0
1996                      US$l.OO               CFA franc 491.1


AbbreviationsandAcronyms

AfDB             African Development Bank
BOAD             West African Development Bank
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF             Francs o f the Communaut6 Financikre Africaine
DANIDA           DanishCooperation Agency
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
EIB              EuropeanInvestment Bank
ESMAP            EnergySector Management Assistance Program
GON              Government o fNiger
ICR              ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA              InternationalDevelopmentAgency
KfW              Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau, Germany
LPG              liquefiedpetroleum gas
MME              Ministbre des Mines et de 1'Energie
NIGELEC          Niger Electric Company
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
PAFN             Project for the Management o fNatural Forests, fundedbythe ADB
PED              Domestic Energy Project, hndedby DANIDA
PPAR             ProjectPerformance Assessment Report
UNDP             UnitedNations Development Program


Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation         : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment       : Mr.R. Kyle Peters
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr.FernandoManibog:

                                                              i


   OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verifythat the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento thosethat are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;thosefor which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bankmanagementhave requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate
 importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowingcountry for onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach.OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistancestrategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extentto which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitableand sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectiveswere achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                     ...
                                                                     111



Contents

PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................   v

Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................  v

Preface  ...............................................................................................................................     vi

Summary     ..........................................................................................................................       ..
                                                                                                                                            vi1

Background       ........................................................................................................................     1

The Project     .........................................................................................................................    2

        Project Objectives.,..................................................................................................               2
        Implementation Arrangements .................................................................................                        4
        Implementation Record............................................................................................                    4
Ratings   ................................................................................................................................   4

         Outcome...................................................................................................................          5
        Relevance of Objectives ...........................................................................................                   6
        EfJicacy ....................................................................................................................        8
        Efjciency .................................................................................................................. 9
        Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................                           10
        Sustainability.......................................................................................................... 12
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                   13
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                      14
Findings,Lessons Learned,And Outlook                                ......................................................................   14

        Major Findings ......................................................................................................                14
        Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 15
        Outlook..................................................................................................................           -16
Bibliography      .....................................................................................................................     19

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                              ..............................................................................................    21




This reportwas preparedbyRodJanssen(Consultant) who assessedthe projectinJanuary2004.The report
was editedbv WilliamHurlbut.andRoseGachinaprovidedadministrativesupport                                         .


                                                 V




PrincipalRatings
                                             ICR*                ICR Review*        PPAR

Outcome                                      Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Moderately
                                                                                    Satisfactory
Sustainability                               Likely              No rating          Likely
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact               Partial             No rating          Substantial
Bank Performance                             Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                         Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Satisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR)is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivisionof
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediateOED productthat seeksto independentlyverify the findings of
the ICR.




Key StaffResponsible
Project         Task Manager/               Division Chief/               Country Director
               Leader                       Sector Director
Appraisal      lgnatius Menezes             Jean-FranqoisBauer            Lawrence Hinkle*
Completion     Mark Segal                   Max Pulgar-Vidal              Theodore Ahlers


* Country Operations DivisionChief

                                              vi




Preface

This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Niger EnergyProject
for which a credit o fUS$65.9 million was approved on February23, 1988. The project's
original closing date o f December 31, 1994, was extended to December 31, 1996. Only
US$17.5 millionequivalent (or 55 percent) o f the US$31.5 millionequivalent o f the IDA
credit was disbursed.US$14.0 million equivalent was cancelled at project closing.

Co-financing was provided by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) o f Germany, the
European Investment Bank (EIl3) and DANIDA o fDenmark.

The Energy Projectwas the first major project to develop a comprehensive approach to
energypolicy inNiger. Itwas brought about largely to addressthe problems o f
deforestation and its environmental effects giventhat the country is highly dependent on
wood as its mainenergy source. A more balancedpatterno f energy sources and uses was
necessary, given the limited wood resource and the highpopulation growth.

This project was selected for an OED assessment inorder to look more carefully at the
performance and sustainability o f a lendingoperation for which there has been a
substantial duration between project closing andthe PPAR. Giventhe seven years that
have elapsed since project closing (December 1996) and the assessment mission(January
2004), additional time was requiredduring2004 to conduct phone interviews and collect
further data from evaluation informants who have since rotated through various positions
andwere difficult to track down.

Thisreport is basedonthe ImplementationCompletionReport (Report No. 16734)
prepared bythe Africa Region, issuedJune 19, 1997; the StaffAppraisal Report (Report
No. 6746-NIR) dated January 8, 1988; loan documents, project files, and discussions with
Bankstaff. An Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) missionvisitedNigerin
January 2004. The missionincludeddiscussions with government officials o f the relevant
ministries andthe HighCommissionfor Decentralization, donor representatives, staff o f
related wood energy projects, electric utility officials, appliance importers, non-
government organizations, informants from two rural markets and other stakeholders.
Their co-operation and assistanceis gratefully acknowledged.

Following standardOED procedures, copies o f the draft PPARwere sent to the
Government officials and agencies for their review but no comments were received.

                                                 vii


 Summary

 The overall objective o f the Niger Energy Project was to develop a general strategy and
 specific policies to address interconnected energyproblems together with financing
 investmentsnecessaryto implementthe policies. This included specific objectives in
 three energy areas. For the household energy sub-sector, the objective on the demand side
was to promote woodhel conservation and fuel substitution, while on the supply side, the
 objectives were to promote more effective forest cover management andto develop
renewable energy technologies. For the electricity sub-sector, the objectives were to
promote the conservation o f electricity andto helpNIGELEC provide electricity at least
 cost. For the petroleum sub-sector, the objective was to upgrade Niger's capability to
 administer a petroleum exploration promotion program.

 Overall, the project's outcome i s rated moderateZy satisfactory. The project helpedput the
 energy sector inNiger on a more modem, comprehensive foundation. However, ineach
 o f the individual components some targets or objectives were not achieved. The worst
 outcome was for the electricity sub-sector component, which completedthe
interconnection with Nigeria but didnot complete the distribution network. Inthe
petroleumcomponent, there was goodprogress increating the documentation and archive
center andthe petroleumtesting laboratory, as well inestablishing a legislative
framework. For the household sub-sector, the best results were inthe creation o fthe rural
wood marketsthat have helped improve the forest resourcebase and helpedinthe orderly
supply o fwood to urbanareas.

Theproject's institutionaldevelopment impact is ratedsubstantial.The project was able
to create some important new structures that have facilitated energy market development.
Inparticular, inthe household energysub-sector, the ruralwood markets are extremely
important and hctioningwell. Regional and national federations have supported and
facilitated the development andmaturationo f these markets. The local forestry
authorities, which were initially against these markets becausethey affectedtheir own
mandates, have accepted these rural markets andhave evolved into a new role of
monitoringand fraud control. The team o f local experts that helped duringthe project
have formed themselves into a non-profit organization supporting the creation and
development o fnew rural wood markets.

The sustainability o f the project i s rated likely, particularly inthe case o f the ruralwood
markets. Bythe end o f 2002, 120markets were inoperation andmore are being created
through separate projects. This component began the trend toward decentralization,
which the government has now embraced. The project's petroleum legislationwill have
an enduring, positive legacy, and the documentation center andpetroleum testing
laboratory are makinglasting contributions, but the lack o f sufficient operational funding
i s hamperingtheir effectiveness. Inthe electricity sector, the project began the long
process o f reform that i s only now starting to see results.

The Bank's performance is ratedsatisfactory. The initial analysis andproject design
provided a strong foundation for the project, although the project was probably too
complex for the government to handle at that time. Supervisionwas inconsistent for
much o f the project, but on the household energy component the supervisionwas

                                              viii


exemplary and ledto the strong results. Government representatives and other
stakeholders mentioned, however, that continued Bank involvement or follow-up o f the
household energy component would have been useful, even after project closing. Both
the electricity andpetroleumcomponents could have benefitedfrom stronger supervision.

Theborrower's performance is ratedsatisfactory. Overall, the relevant government
ministriesimplementedtheir respective components. The borrower has developed a
strong analytical andpolicy development capability that will prove important inits
overall energy policy development. Inparticular, there was a good synergy between the
Bankandtheborrower onthe household energy component. However, inthe electricity
component, the failure to meet some o f the conditions o fthe covenants ledto the
termination o fparts o fthe credit.

The main lessons from this assessmentare as follows:

       Substantial effort i s necessaryto integrate economic restructuring reforms with
       social andpoverty reductionobjectives.
       The Bankneeds to ensure that the rationale for reforms (Le., better provisiono f
       energy services to the public) i s clear to domestic stakeholders.
       "Ownership" o f a project or an element of a project is key to its success and it is
       necessaryto ensure that project partners are fully committed to the aims andthe
       approach taken. This occurred for the successful household energy component but
       not for the electricity component.
       A dynamic, supportive, and committed approachbythe Bank throughout the
       lifetime o fthe project is vital to success, as was the case inthe household energy
       component o fthis project.
       Regularpost-closing project follow-up byBankoperational staff(e.g., while
       supervising other ongoingprojects) may be needed to ensure that projects are
       meetingtheir long-term objectives and to reinforce to project partners the
       commitment o fthe Bank to the reformprocesses inthe recipient countries.




                                                                       Ajay Chhibber
                                                                  Acting Director-General
                                                                   Operations Evaluation

                                                     1


 Background

 1.       WhentheNiger EnergyProject was formulated inthe 1980s, Nigerwas one ofthe
 world's least developed countries andit remainsso today. Niger is a country o f 11.1million
 inhabitants' that has somedomestic energy resourcesthat havenot beenexploited for the
benefitofthe country. Its uraniumcanonlybeexported. Somecoal andligniteis startingto
beused. Someo fthe hydropotentialis beingexploited andthere are plansto develop more.
 There is hope for oilbecauseithas a similar geological structure as some of its neighboring
countries that have good provenreserves. There is also wind andsolar potential. Yet, by far
the most important energyresourceis wood, which provides almost 94percent o ftotal
energyconsumption. Wood is usedfor cooking, heating, andlighting.Only 6percent ofthe
populationhas access to electricity (including only 25 percent inareas where there is
electricity available) and58 percento felectricity supplywas imported.2

2.        The concernin 1987, when the project was beingappraised, was that the rapid
growth inthe urbanpopulation (estimated at 6to 7percent annually) would have a
devastatingenvironmental effect onthe fkagile forests. Some estimates at the time predicted
that demandwould outstrip supply in10to 20 years. The mainoptions to avoidsuch
devastatingeffects were to encouragethe useo fefficient keroseneand LPGstoves, improve
the efficiency ofwood usethroughimprovedwood stoves andto undertakemeasuresto
increasethe supplyo fwood through                                                                 ~




better forestry management.                     Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world.
                                                Per capita GNP stood at approximately US$180 in
3.       But more support to the                2000 (World Bank Atlas method), and Niger ranks
energy sector was needed. If                    161st out o f 162 countries listed in UNDP's 2001
commercially exploitable oil were               Human Development Report (HDR). Available data

to be discovered, a better system               point to a poverty headcount o f 63 percent and to an

andlegal framework for oil                      extreme poverty incidence o f 34 percent. Vulnerability
                                                to drought     has worsened      food insecurity and
explorationwas needed to                        consequently malnutrition affects 40 percent of
encourage private sector                        children under 5 years old. Combined with poor access
participation. The electricity supply           to safe water, poor nutrition contributes to an infant
system needed to be bolstered                  mortality rate o f 114 per 1000 and life expectancy at
through the increased import o f               birthof about 46 years. Adult illiteracy remains highat
lower-cost electricity from Nigeria.            84 percent and gross primary enrollment rates low at 42
Once that electricity was available,           percent overall, with female enrolment at only 33
steps hadto be taken to deliver it to          percent of school-age girls for the school year
a larger customer base. Only about             2001/2002. The burden o f poverty and low social

5 percent o f the populationhad                development falls disproportionately on women, whose
                                               access to land, credit, technology, and social services
access to electricity and it remains           remainsvery limited, despite some recent progress.
approximately around 6 percent
now, although new strategies are               From the January 21, 2003 Country Assistance
beingdesigned to increase access.              Strategy




1.UNDP, Human DevelopmentReport, 2003, page253.
2. Ministere des Mines et de I'Energie, DCclarationde Politique EnergCtique, Novembre2003.

                                               2


4.      Onthe policy front, someprogress hasbeenmade since 1987.The policy
development process is improving and a new declaration o f energy policy was prepared
bythe MinistryofMines and EnergyinNovember 2003. The declaration providesthe
broad outline o f a comprehensive energy policy, which has been lacking for a long time.
There have beenmany attempts bythe government to provide better, more modern
energyservices but it is a slow process ina country that is desperately short o f
sustainable energy and financial resources.



The Project

Project Objectives

5.      The overall objective o f the project was to develop a strategy inthe energy sector
to address interconnected problems facing Niger's economy, support financing for the
related investments, and help improve the operational and financial performance o f
NIGELECwithinthe context ofthe state enterprise reformprogram.

6.      The project focused onthree sub-sectors: household energy, electricity, and
petroleum. The household sector, highly dependent on rapidly depleting wood supplies to
provide most o f their energy services, urgentlyneededto introducenew fuels to
substitutefor wood, increase the efficiency o fwood use, and findways o fimprovingthe
wood resource base ina sustainable manner. Firewood accounted for 87 percent o f
energy consumption inNiger andwas used by 99 percent o fhouseholds for cooking. The
electricity sector had insufficient generation capacity, an inadequate distribution system
to increase the access to electricity, and a national electricity company that was
inefficient and inneed o f improving its capacity to providebetter electricity services. The
petroleum sector needed abetter legal andtechnical infrastructure inorder to encourage
the exploitationo fpotentialpetroleumresources withinthe country.

7.      The specific objectives o fthe three energy areas covered were:

    e   Household energy sub-sector. Onthe demandside the objectivewas to promote
        woodfuel conservation and substitutiono f other fuels for woodfuel. Onthe supply
        side, the objectives were to promote more effective forest cover management and
        to develop renewable energy technologies.
    e   Electricity sub-sector. The objective was to promote the conservation o f
        electricity andto help NIGELECprovide electricity at least cost.
    e   Petroleum sub-sector. The objectivewas to upgradeNiger's capability to
        administer apetroleum explorationpromotionprogram.

All ofthe sub-sectorsincludedseveral components, as described inthe following table.

                                                      3


Objectivesof the Three ProjectComponents

Subsector      Sub-objectives                Components and Activities
Household        Promotefuelwood              Regulationof trade in and transportof fuel wood
Energy           conservation                 Controlthe supply and distributionof fuel wood to towns
                 Providefor substitute
                 energy sources               Preparationof master supply plans

                 Improvemanagementof          Creationof ruralmarketsand productionzones
                 naturalforest cover          Promotionof local productionand marketingof improved
                 Promotethe                   wood stoves
                 development of               Local production,import,and marketingof keroseneand
                 renewableenergy              butanegas stoves
                 sources
Electricity      Protectthe conservation      Constructionof the Nigerianportionof a 300-km, single-
                 of electric power            circuit, 132-kVtransmissionline
                 Supply electricity at least 0Rehabilitationof a 132-kVtransmissionline in the north
                 cost                        0Rehabilitationand extensionof distributionfacilities in
                                              Niameyand the east
                                             0Studies, includingprovisionfor engineeringof a
                                              hydroelectricproject
                                             0Provisionof technicalassistance,training,office space,
                                              equipment,and vehicles to NIGELEC
Petroleum        Improvemanagementof         0Retrieval,reprocessing,and archivingof geologicaland
                 oil exploration              geophysicaldata
                                              Organizationof laboratory,storage, and informationretrieval
                                              facilitiesfor petroleumsamplesand data
                                             0Reviewof legislationandfiscal regimes

                                             0Preparationof a synthesisof the petroleumgeology of Niger
                                              and a strategyto accelerateexploration,possiblyin co-
                                              operationwith neighboringChad and Nigeria
                                              Promotionof areas that are presentlyfree or will be
                                              relinquished
                                              Provisionof equipment,training, andtechnical assistance

8.        The actual costs were less than halfof the estimate as a result o fthe cancellation
o fthe electricity component after the interconnection with Nigeria was completed but the
distribution component was not, due to non-compliance with financial covenants and the
Bank'sprocurement procedures (see paragraph 15). IDA disbursed 55 percent o fits
credit amount. DANIDA disbursed 90 percent o f its estimates, used for the household
energycomponent. The ICRdidnot have data for the disbursements bythe other donors,
KfWandthe ED.

ProjectCosts and Financing

Component                         Appraisal                     Actual             Percentage Share
                                  ($million)                  ($mi//ion)            (based onActual
                                                                                         Costs)
HouseholdEnergy                       9.4                        16.2                      53
Electricity                          53.5                         9.4                      31
Petroleum                             3.0                         4.8                      16
Total                                65.9                       30.4                      100

                                                4


ImplementationArrangements

 9.      A number of government organizations were involvedinthe implementationof
the project. The Ministryo f Mines and Energytook the lead on energy sector reforms,
the petroleum sub-sector component and on the demandcomponent o f the household
 energy component. The Ministryo f Water and Environment ledthe supply-related
activities o fthe household energy component. NIGELEC took the lead together with the
 electricity directorate o f the Ministryo f Mines and Energy for the interconnectiono f the
electricity gridto Nigeria and related grid expansion.

ImplementationRecord

 10.     The credit was approved on February 23,1988, andclosed onDecember 31, 1996,
two years after ithadoriginally beenplannedto end. This extensionwas to allow additional
time to complete important household energy andpetroleum sub-sector components.

 11.     Theprojectwas affected negativelybythe political and social instability resulting
from the transitionto democracy during 1990-92, a weakened fiscal administration
leadingto GONarrears inthe payment o f its electricity bills, andthe devaluationo f the
CFA franc, which increasedthe local currency cost ofimportedsubstitutes for woodfbels,
namely kerosene andLPG.

12.      The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was modifiedtwice duringthe
implementationperiod. First, in 1989 IDA changed a conditiono f disbursement that
Niger andNigeriareach a satisfactory agreement on the operation andmanagement o fthe
power transmission line that was to be constructed as part o f the project. Second, the
D C A was modified in 1994 to transfer hnds from the unallocated component to the
remainingproject components. While the transmission line to Nigeria was constructed,
the sub-transmission and distribution components were not completed. NIGELECdidnot
complete other studies for the sector andthe extension o f company office space didnot
happen becausethe extension plan involvedpurchasing a buildingthat was too large for
its needs. The electricity component was suspendedafter the interconnector to Nigeria
was completed. It was eventually cancelled due to non-compliance with financial
covenants inthe project's legal agreements andnon-compliance with Bankprocurement
procedures inthe distributioncomponent.




13.     The ratings are assessed almost eight years after the credit closed. This periodo f
time creates certain challenges becausemany o f the project files are hardto obtain and
manyofthepeople involvedare no longer working inthe field. For example, this makes
it hard, butnot impossible, to assess boththe Bank's andthe borrower's performance.
Thus, the approach taken was to interview officials (andtwo ministers) inNiger andthe
World Bankwho were either involved inthe project at the time or were involvedwith the
continuationo fvarious components after the completion o fthe project.

                                                5


 Outcome

 14.     The project's overall outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory. The project
was designed to helpput the energy sector inNiger on amore modem, comprehensive
foundation. Inthis it has succeeded, even though some individual components were not
achieved.

 15.     The outcome o fthe electricity component is unsatisfactory. The 40 MW
interconnection with Nigeriawas completed. Only a small share o f its capacity is used, in
part becausethe distributioncomponent was not completed. The development o f the
distribution network stopped due to non-compliance with financial covenants inthe
project's legal agreements and non-compliance with Bankprocurement procedures inthe
distribution component. NIGELEC states that the financial covenants were the
responsibility o f the GON andthat it didnot have the managerial latitude to go beyond
the government's wishes. Government representatives state that these requirements on
NIGELEC were but one aspect o fthe restructuring requiredby the World Bank and IMF
and that NIGELEC could not beblamed. There i s a widespread belief inthe GONand
NIGELEC that the covenants demandedby the Bank were too strict for the country at
that point inthe economic reform process. Part o f the problemwas that NIGELEC was a
fairly young company with relativelypoor capacity andthat, inmany ways, it sees itself
more as a government agency than an energy company separate from government. Now,
almost 10years later, the transmission network and other investments will be carried out
through fundingprimarily from the BOAD.3The investmentwill be for 7,050 million
CFA francs (US$14.24 millionequivalent).

16.      The outcome o fthe petroleumcomponent is satisfactory. One o f the main
achievements is the establishment o f the new petroleum code (OrderNo. 92-45, dated
December 16, 1992) which regulates oil operations inthe country. Under the project,
there was also training for the staff o f the HydrocarbonGroup inthe Ministryo f Mines
and Energy and a study o fthe oil potential inthe country. To support the promotion o f oil
exploration a documentation center was created, bringingtogether all the exploration
archives that can be usedbypotential companies wanting to explore inNiger. The
documentation center i s staffed and available to possible users. Unfortunately, there i s not
a lot of interest on the part o fthe petroleumexploration industry inNiger at the moment
andthe center has not beenuseda lot. There are concems that some o fthe equipment is
either inappropriate for local weather conditions and that some o fthe archives must be
read inParis or other documentation centersbecause o f the lack o f appropriate readers.
The center does lack sufficient operating funds to safeguard the archives and equipment.
Also created was the petroleum laboratory, which is designed for controlling the quality
standards o fpetroleumproducts entering the country. It is fully functioning with good
equipment andwell-trained staff. However, due to the lack o f adequate operating funds,
tests on importedoil products cannot be undertaken systematically becausethere are no
means to obtain samples from incoming trucks. There i s no vehicle that cantransport
staff to get the samples.




3. West African DevelopmentBank

                                                   6


 17.      The outcome o f the household energy component is satisfactory. The component
 i s divided into two segments: supply and demand. On the supply side, under the Ministry
 o f Water and Environment, the 1992 changes to the forestry and tenure laws allowed
 villages to sign agreements giving them exclusive rights over their own forest areas. This
 has transformed the wood supply industry andbeenkey to the future o f wood
 sustainability. Bythe closing o f the credit, 92 wood marketswere established invillages
 throughout the country. This i s a complex set o f measuresincluding givingthe villages
 the right to manage forests near them, dividingthe forests into parcels for woodcutting
 rotation, establishing permits for woodcutters, setting up a management unitto interface
withwood transporters (who buythe wood) andcollect taxes, etc. There was also a
 separate sub-element o f setting up a distribution system for substitutes: kerosene and
 LPG. While there was one distributor before, now there are two. Since the demand is
relatively low and the potential market i s small, there is no apparent interest inother
 distributors entering the market.

 18.      On the demand side, there was the need to promote the use o f improvedstoves for
cooking with wood, kerosene, andLPG, andto develop "Energie-Shops" to facilitate the
distributiono fkerosene and stoves. TCHIP Import was set up as a company to help
import andmanufacture equipment to support the substitution o f fuels for cooking.
Results are mixedand generally fell short o f the initial project estimates for the
penetration o f improved stoves. The ICR states that over 13,000 petroleum stoves, 12,000
basic gas stoves, 10,000 improvedmetal-wood stovesper year, and4,000 wood stoves
were disseminated commercially duringthe project but there was no complete data on
actual salesS4The initial planwas to have stoves save about 180,000 tons o fwoodfuel
between 1988 and 1997. Untilthe end o f the project, manyimproved stoves were
imported. The penetration o fimprovedstoves didnot help stabilize wood consumption
for several reasons. First, the devaluation o f the CFA franc meant that after 1994
imported stoves became too expensive for most o fthe target population. Second, the
domestically-built stoves only became available at the end o fthe credit period andthus
could not benefit from project support becausethey were brought onto the market too
late. Until 1996, probably less than 100,000 tons were saved according to the ICR due to
the factors stated above. As shownbelow under "Sustainability" the market remained
fairly low but i s now showing strong signs o f growth.

Relevance of Objectives

19.      Prior to this project, the Bank hadbeen involved inNiger inattempting to
improve the forestry sector, inanalyzingthe economic feasibility o fpetroleum
development inthe Agadem basinand indeveloping a reformprogram o f the parastatal
sector, which included the electric utility, NIGELEC. The depletiono fthe forestry
resourcebase was acute, particularly inthe regions near major cities and alternatives
were neededurgently, either through improvedefficiency, through improving the
resourcebase, or through fuel substitution. The electricity sector neededto modernizein
order to providemore electricitymore cheaply to more o fthe population. With respect to
the petroleum sector, according to the SAR, Niger offers possibilities for the discovery o f


4. The SAR hadanindicator o f saving 180,000 tons of woodfuel between1988 and 1997.

                                                       7


 oil reserves, the Agadem Basinbeingthe most attractive. Some private interest was
 evident early on. Petroleum exploration started inthe early 1960sandby the 70s, nearly
 3,000 kmo f seismic were shot and 10wells were drilled (by a consortiumincluding
 Texaco and Esso), three o fwhich gave oil flows. Tests and studies, however, gave
 insufficient data to stimulate further appraisal or development in such a remote area. The
 Government's strategy was to continue to rely on private companies, but petroleum
 development was heldback by (a) the lack o f comprehensive petroleum data acquisition,
 analysis and storage from past exploration' and (b) inadequate legal, regulatory and
 administrative framework, which the project addressed.

 20.     As stated inthe SAR, IDA hadtaken a leadingrole inthe development o fthe
 household energy strategy and inthe preparation o f studies related to power system
planning,power organization, andpetroleumdevelopment. This new project was needed
 to ensure that energy sector investments are directed to economic projects o fhigh
 priority; to help resolve the institutional and organizational issues; to ensure that energy
prices reflect both economic costs and fiscal considerations; and to mobilize financing
 from other donors.

 21.     The project's overall rating for relevance of objectives is substantial. The
project's objectives are consistent with both national andBank priorities, both at the time
o f the project and now. According to the most recent Country Assistance StrategyY6the
GON's strategy for economic growth andpoverty reductionis based on four pillars, o f
which three are particularlyrelevant to this project:

         A macroeconomic framework ensuring economic andfinancial viability while
         promoting sustainable and robust growth: the project was designedto support
         economic and financial viability ina sustainable manner
         The development ofproductive sectors, especially inrural areas, to mitigate
         vulnerability and stimulate income generation: the creation o fthe rural wood
         markets provided an entirelynew source o f income for some o fthe poorest
         villages inNiger, allowingthese villages to be economically independent and
         sustainable
     0   The strengthening o f institutionaland individual capacity inside andoutside
         government, at the central and local level: this project provided support for the
         petroleumdevelopment and monitoring systems o f the government and it helped
         capacity at the local level through the wood market system.




5. Inspecting petroleumproducts i s one o f the many capabilities o f the laboratory facilities that the project
financed. What the project fmanced was similar to a geological office that included modem facilities for
seismic reprocessing; storage of raw data and their reproduction inbothpaper and film; storage o f drill
cuttings and cores; archiving o f magnetic tapes, and the like. Analysis o fpetroleum samples was a
necessary but small component inthese facilities.
6. ReportNo. 25203-NIR, January 21,2003

                                                     8


22.       TheNiger energy project is fully consistent with supporting economic growthand
poverty reduction, the twin objectives of the CAS.' Unfortunately, the current CAS does
not pursue further the positive results from the project underreview.

23.       The project is fully consistent with the objectives ofthe Bank's EnergyBusiness
RenewalStrategy, whose mainpriorities for the program include helpingthe poor
directly, improving macroeconomic and fiscal balances including protectingbudgets for
 social programs that help the poor, promoting good governance and private sector
development, andprotecting the environment. The Niger energy project i s consistent with
all o f those priorities. These priorities are somewhat mirrored inthe Bank's sector
strategy, "A Brighter Future? Energy inAfrica's Development, which discusses the
relevance o f energy infrastructure and services to the major challenges o f development,
particularlyhumanresource development; the fight against poverty; and care for the
natural environment.

Efficacy

24.       The project efficacy i s rated as modest. The project made headway inachieving
the overallobjectives but they were not fully satisfied andthat has affected the overall
project. One o f the difficulties i s inestablishing good indicators to determine the impact.

25.       Theprimaryobjective is to develop a strategy to addressinterconnected energy
problems facing Niger's economy. Policies and strategies were put inplace and these are
important for developing a long-term policy framework. Important institutional
strengthening occurred, especially at the local levelbut also within the government. The
wood energy system is muchmore robust butmore effort is needed inreducingwood
demandthroughimprovedefficiency andfuel substitution. This affects the development
o f a fully integrated household energy strategy.

26.       The interconnection withNigeriawas animportant component ofthe project in
order to provide more reliable electricity at lower cost than domestically generated
electricity. Greater access to electricity to a wider segment o fthe population didnot make
muchheadway duringthe project becausethe investmentinthe distribution systemdid
not take place, as described above.

27.       The policy o fpromotingpetroleum exploration exists through the creation o fthe
documentation center and archives but they are not beingusedto their full potential due
to poor equipment and under-funding for daily operation. But, importantly, the petroleum
legislation is now inplace and that will have long-term benefits inpromoting exploration
andmodernizing the petroleum sector.

28.       Some progress has been made with respect to the objective o f supportingthe
financing o f related investments. Investments inthe rural wood markets have helpedthe
villages become completely independent andno further support for their continuing
operations i s needed. This component has transformed livelihoods inthese villages and

7. The CAS makes little reference to energy other thanpromotingprivatization of utilities and energy
distribution companies.

                                                   9


 has made an important contribution to providing a more sustainable wood supplyto
 urban areas. Investmentsinmore efficient wood stoves or kerosene or gas stoves have
 beeninadequate. Purchaseof the appliances was not sufficient because o fthe level o f
 poverty. There was also a need to subsidize the price of the fuel inputs and this was not
 possible under the credit conditions.

 29.     The creation of the rural wood marketshas hadmany incidentalbenefits. Jobs
 have been created for woodcutters and other management positions. Tax i s collected and
 most o f this i s retained at the local level. This tax i s usedfor many localprojects. Insome
 cases, the villages buy their ownvaccines, repair communalbuildings including the
 medical facility, provide a specific share for the women inthe village, and so on. The
 revenue from the wood together with the localtaxes give the villages a sense o f
 empowerment that they didnot have inthe past.

 30.     The IDA credit supported the creation o f the petroleumlaboratory and the
 documentation center. These were to ensure compliance with petroleum product
 standardsandto provide a one-stop locationfor all data onpetroleumexploration
 respectively. Bothare seriously hampered by ongoing operational expenses. The costs are
 not highbut the GONi s not providing enough o f the ongoing runningcosts to make both
 organizations fully functional and effective. This effectivelyprovides some indication o f
their priority for the government. While there have been difficulties, this does not mean
that the IDA support was wrong. The problem i s that there has beenno Bank follow-up to
 ensure that those facilities were usedeffectively.

 31.     As regardsthe objective ofimprovingthe operational and financialperformance of
NIGELEC, this component unfortunately came to an end after NIGELEC failed to comply
with financialcovenants. NIGELEC continuedto have serious financingproblems for
years after the closing o fthis credit andthe company only recently agreedon anew
financing packagewith the BOAD. Since the closingo fthe credit, little expansion o f the
distributionnetwork hastaken place andmucho fthe new financingfrom BOADwill be
usedfor closingexisting inefficient power plants(through increasedimports from Nigeria)
rather than expanding access to the grid. There is some logic to this since expanding access
to the gridis madedifficult bythe levelo fpoverty andthe reduced costswill potentially
makeNIGELEC more financiallyviable.

Efficiency

32.     The overall economic and financial rates of return are rated modest. Analysis
o f the benefits are difficult to assess giventhe deartho f data almost a decade after the
project's closing, andthe non-completiono fNIGELEC's distributionnetwork.
Consequently, the economic internalrate o f returnwas not re-calculated. The project's
benefits are discussedbelow.

33.      For the electricity sector, few benefits were derived due to the suspension o fthe
component after only the high-voltage interconnectionwith Nigeria was completed. The
interconnection has a capacity of40 MW andnow after about a decade, only 5 MW o f
the capacity i s beingused.Although no data was provided from NIGELEC, the
interconnection didhelp to reduce costs since electricity costs were lower from Nigeria

                                                    10


 than from local generation. So, even though it was usedbelow capacity, becauseo f the
 favorable terms, there are financial benefits to NIGELEC.

 34.     For the petroleum component, an economic analysis i s not relevant becauseit
 only relates to the archives and documentation center, testing laboratory, and legislative
 framework.

 35.     For the household component, the ICR assessed an economic rate o freturno f 8.5
percent, compared with 30 percent estimated at the appraisal. The 8.5 percent was
calculatedbasedon the benefits o fthe woodfbel substitution component relativeto its costs
 fkom the 1989to 1996period. In1996, savingsinfirewood consumption were estimated at
 15,300 tons andbetween 1992 and 1996they rangedbetween 15,000 and23,000 tons.
While the data is poor, this would meanthat the savingswould be about 100,000 tons, less
thanthe 180,000 tons estimated at the time o fthe SAR. Accordingto recent analysis,
commercial wood consumption inurbanareas has grown from 181,392 tons in 1988to
249,666 tons in 1997. This increasedto 309,462 tons in2003 andit is estimatedto reach
357,354 tons in2007.8This increaseto datehas grownindirect correlation withpopulation
growth since, according to recent analysis, wood consumption per capita was 0.17
tondperson in 1988 andhasremained at that levelthroughout.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

36.      The institutionaldevelopmentimpactis ratedas substantial.The projectwas
able to create some important new structures that have facilitated energymarket
development. The project started the process o f decentralization that the GONhas now
embraced. It i s widely accepted that this project had a fundamental impact on government
policies, showing that the villages were capable o f a greater role intheir economic and
social management.

37.     Inthehousehold energysector, there havebeensome important developments.
The rural wood markets that were createdby the project are important and functioning
well overall. Effectively, the villages were given control over adjoining forests. Forest
management plans were put into place and a certainnumber o fwoodcutters were allowed
withinthe area. The wood is then soldinthe localwood market to transporters who take
the wood to the cities. At the market, taxes are collected andsent to the localMinistryof
Environment office. A portion o fthe tax revenue is kept within the village to support
local needs and each village developed a planfor disbursement o frevenue.

38.     A support system ofregionalandnational federations has facilitated the
development andmaturation o f these markets. The forestry brigade, which was initially
against these markets becauseit affected its mandates, has accepted these markets and
has evolved into a new role of monitoringand fraud control. The team o f experts that
helpedduringthe project has formed themselves into a non-profit organization
supporting the creation and development o fnew rural wood markets. This non-profit
organization has even been asked outside Niger for assistance.

8. Michel Matly, Groupement Cirad-f&et--Louis Berger, L'Indicateur du bois-tnergie au Niger, PAFN,
Ministbre de l'Hydraulique, de 1'Environment et de la Lutte contra la Dtsertification, octobre 2003.

                                                 11


 39.       Also important is the Association Nationaledes Exploitants de Bois (ANEB),
 which brings together all involved in the wood energy industry(women, woodcutters,
 andtransporters). The ANEB has offices ineight regions. This is animportant
 organization to ensure the interests o f the wood energy industryare protected. The ANEiB
 i s affiliated to the "Plate-forme Paysanne," an umbrellaorganization that co-ordinates the
 various peasant organizations throughout the country and lobbies for the interests o fthe
 general population. The Plate-forme Paysanneis part o fthe region-wide ReprCsantantsdu
 RCseaudes Organisations Paysannesde 1'Afrique de I'Ouest (ROPPA). These are
 important institutions for local market development.

 40.       The project has also helpedcapacity buildingat the local level. Ithas helpedto
 develop a market mentality andhas helpeddevelop local skills. There are now
 organizations that help new rural markets understand the different aspects o f the rural
 market development. Villages have also started working together through regional and
 national federations to discuss and solve their own problems and concerns relatedto
 market development.

 41.       The role of NIGELEC as the state's national electricity company has still not fully
 evolved into a more effective, restructured model promotedby the World Bank and
 others. There i s still an ongoing debate about public service and the role o fNIGELEC.
 There are concerns about reconcilinggoals o fpoverty reduction and economic
restructuring. The draft declaration on energy is forthright inpromotingthe economic
restructuring, however. While electricity consumption and access to electricity are both
very low, there i s still little effort inpromoting its cost-effective efficient use.

42.        The team withinthe Ministryo f Water andEnvironment that supported the
follow-up wood supply component, funded by DANIDA, has now beenformed into a
cell within the Ministry o f Water and Environment.

43.        The electricity andhydrocarbon groups within the Ministry o fMines andEnergy
are well trained and motivated. They have good analytical capacity but the effectiveness
o fthe staffi s hampered by inadequate office equipment.

44.        While existing, the petroleum laboratory andthe petroleum documentation center
have runinto difficulties becauseo f ongoing operating costs. The staff are well trained
andmost o fthe equipment is good. Theproblems would be easily solved ifthe GON
provided sufficient ongoing resources for them to cany out their tasks. The finds
requiredwould bequite modest.

45.        The recommended actions from this projectto hrther the reformprocess for
NIGELEC havebeen slow to non-existent. Duringthe project, the utility did not comply
with the financial covenants inthe project's legal agreements andit also didnot comply
withtheBank's procurement procedures. Essentially, the company hasnot sufficiently
improvedits management style.

                                                  12


 Sustainability

 46.     The project's overallsustainability is rated as likely. Since eight years have
 passedmany o f the elements have provento be highly sustainable. This i s particularlythe
 case for the rural markets. By the end o f 2003 there were 180rural wood markets, up
 from the 92 created by the end o f the IDA credit. The additionalmarkets were created
 through a DANIDA-sponsored projectsgThe major aims o f the DANIDA project were to
 increase the number o fmarkets from about 75 in2000 to 172by 2004; to simplify forest
management procedures andto increase the efficiency o fthe tax system. The total budget
 for the five-year project was about US$3.6 million.

 47.     The existingmarkets are continuing without any ongoing support. There were
 concerns at the beginningbecauseo f the venture into decentralization and whether it
would work. It has andno one from the local levelthrough to the HighCommission o f
Decentralizationfor the GONwould want to reverse the process. Today the methodology
i s beingused for two subsequent household energy projects to expandthe number o f rural
markets (one fundedby DANIDA andthe other by the African Development Bank).The
 forms andthe process developed by the project are still inuse today.

48.      Only 16percent o f the wood potential i s covered by these rural wood markets and
the remaining area still remains underthe old system. It is difficult to have two systems
withinone country butthere is no ongoing international support to expand to the rest of
the country.

49.      On the demand side, duringthe project the deployment o fnew stoves and the
increased use o fkerosene and LPGwere less thanprojected, inpart becauseo f the
devaluation of the CFA franc and the resultingincrease inthe price o f LPGand
kerosene." Since the end o f the credit, the main emphasis has been on wood supply
through the expansion o f the rural wood markets, not demand reduction. There are
startingto be changes, however. Domestic coal is beingpromotedthrough a new
government initiative. T C H P Import (see paragraph 18) estimates that in2004, it will
produce 10,000 kerosene, 5,000 LPG, and 6,000 coal stoves and some o fthese are
exported to Mali. This production is up from 3,000 kerosene, 2,000 LPG, and 300 coal
stoves in2003. Because o f this significant increase, further investigation i s needed in
order to have a better understanding o f market dynamics. Coal stoves have increased
becauseo fnew government promotional activities, since there i s domestic coal that can
be used, but the reason for the rapid expansion inproductiono f the other types o f stoves
needs to bebetter understood. These figures are still modest incomparisonto the entire
market,butthey are signs o fimprovement.

50.      EventhoughNIGELEC failedto follow procurement procedures anddidnot
comply with reducing receivables sufficiently, the obligationsunder the project were


            ~~




9. A further 40 are planned for 2004 inan ADB-funded project.
10.For example, LPGwent from 308 CFA francs per kilogram in1988 to 240 CFA francs between 1990-
1993 and then increasedto 571CFA francs per kilogramafter 1994, because o f the devaluation. The same
trend was true for kerosene.

                                               13


 important instarting to change the mentality toward the importance o frestructuringthe
 electricity sector.

 51.     Thepetroleum component has the incentive framework to be sustainable. The
 legislative framework is fundamental to the future development o fpetroleum exploration
 anddevelopment andnow minor changesneedto bemade to reflect changes inoil
 markets, includingthe use ofpipelines (according to the ministry's argument).
 Concerning the other elements o f the petroleumcomponent, lack o f fundinghampers the
 sustainability o f the petroleumproduct testing laboratory andthe documentation center. If
 sufficient funding is not found soon, the buildings and equipment will seriously
deteriorate. Some equipment installed duringthe project was inappropriate, but that does
not affect the overall sustainability o fthe documentation center. And without adequate
resources to allow for the effective functioning o fthe laboratory and documentation
center, the well-trained and highly motivatedstaffwill undoubtedlyleave.

Bank Performance

52.     The Bank Performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bankstaff that preparedthe
project did an excellentjob o f analyzing the issuesinthe Niger energy sector, described in
the SAR. Theproject was probablytoo complex for the government to handle. Itis hardto
reconcile the need to reform NIGELEC andthe needto provide modem energy services to
the populationand, for this reason, the project was probablytoo ambitious without a major
effort on the part o fthe Bankto explain what it takes to undertake structural reform and
why suchreformisnecessary. The househoId component, however, was very complex but
managedto succeedthrough good support fiom the Bank.

53.     Supervision was inconsistent for much o f the project. For the householdenergy
component, however, the same Bank staff remained throughout the project. The Bank
expert worked persistentlywith local experts to design and implementthe component.
This was much appreciated by all stakeholders, even today.

54.     The electricity component couldhaveusedamorehands-on approach byBank
staff. This is not only to work directly with NIGELEC but also to help explain on a regular
basis why the reforms were neededfor the long-termbenefits o fthe country. There is still
some confusion more thana decade later. It appearsthe government was not sufficiently
preparedfor the demands ofthe Bankonrestructuring andthe financial covenants.

55.     Thepetroleumcomponent neededbetter supervision at the point o finstallationo f
the documentation center. Some o fthe equipment was not appropriate for the local
conditions, but there i s no evidence that this was told to Bank staff. Now the equipment is
neglected and less than fully effective. Some o fthe equipment cannot be used. The staff
o fthe center blamethe contractor for the equipment that was not appropriate for Niger
conditions. This reflects a breakdown incommunications between the Bank staff and
Niger officials becausethe specific, inappropriate equipment (only a smallpart o fthe
total equipment installed) should never have beenaccepted inthe first place.

56.     There are also concerns about regular monitoringafter the completion o fthe
project. There are widespread concerns inNiger about the lack o fmonitoring o fprogress

                                               14


 o f the credit components. Such regularmonitoring i s neededto have both the Bank, the
 GONand the local organizations and individuals focus on the necessary future direction.

 Borrower Performance

 57.      The borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory overall, despite the
 mixed performancefor the electricity component. Inthe woodfuel andpetroleum
 components o fthe project, the GONministriesparticipated hlly supportive, with strong
 motivation. For the household energy component, the borrower's performance was highly
 satisfactory andthe synergy between the Bank andborrower was exemplary. The
 borrower to this day takes a strong role inthis field. This was particularlytrue for the
 wood supply element, creating the rural wood markets and setting up the taxation system.
 This also includedconvincingforestry officials to play adifferent role inwood
 management, cedingmore o fthe authority to the villages. While not as manynew stoves
 were sold as hadbeen expected, this was due to circumstances beyondthe borrower's
 control, including changesinthe exchange rates that severely affected costs and the lack
 o f domesticallyproduced stoves until late inthe project cycle.

 58.     Inthepetroleumcomponent, the implementationwent well andcreditmustbe
 given to the motivation o f GONofficials. Since the project, however, the borrower has
 not provided the necessaryresources to filly operate the testing laboratory and the
 documentation center.

 59.     For the electricity component, the performance o f the borrower i s mixed. The
 component hadto be suspendedin 1993 due to the borrower's unwillingnessto meet the
 conditions o fthe covenants. NIGELEC states that it was not the utility's fault that the
covenants were not met but it was boundby government rules o f the day that didnot
allow it the freedom to raise tariffs or gain more management independence. Since the
project, progress has beenslow and, after 10 years, a new major investmentprogram is
only now beginning, funded by BOAD.

60.      Inrecent years, the GONhasbegunto promotereformsinthe energy sector
through newpolicy documents inoverall energy, renewable energy, and on how energy
can help the strategy to reduce poverty. I t has also beenpromoting the increased use o f
domestic coal as a means o freducingwood consumption. The objectives include
restructuring and liberalizing the electricity and petroleum sectors as well as to reduce
dependenceon wood consumption through increased substitution.



Findings, Lessons Learned, And Outlook

Major Findings

61.      Theproject is complex covering manyaspectso fnationalenergypolicyand
includingtwo GONministries andthe national electricity company. The projectwas
undertakeninaperiodwhendemocratic structures werejust startingto take shape and
when economic conditions were deteriorating. Yet, for all the difficulties andunbalanced

                                                  15


results, there is muchto be optimistic about. The project proved to the authorities that some
o fthe components couldwork andbe sustainable. The project provedto the GONthat local
authorities could take control over their ownwood resources andmakethem work to their
advantage andto the advantage o fthe country. Andby doingthis, itprovedto the GON
that local authorities couldbe'givenmoreresponsibilities innon-energy matters, startinga
trend toward m h e r decentralization that continues today. Theproject gave confidence to
the localpopulationthat they hadthe capacity to undertakesuch responsibilities.

62.      Concern remains about the role o f state energycompanies andthe drive to
alleviate poverty. There i s a link between modern energy services andpoverty. Yet, as
seen inthis project, NIGELEC was effectivelyparalyzed, caught between economic and
structural reforms requiredby the project andthe lack o f effort to implement reforms on
the part o fthe GON. The losers effectively are those without adequate energy services.

63.     There i s optimism inthe country andthat has beenreinforced by the success o f
manyofthe components ofthis project. Thepeople are hlly aware that the country does
not have the naturalresources that some o ftheir neighboring countries have but they are
doing what they can with what they have.

64.     The projecthasprovided important results interms o fdemonstrating that the fragile
wood resourcebasecanbemanaged effectively, althoughwith the full realization that there
needsto be greateruseo f commercial fuels. Forestry management andthe ruralwood
marketsareprovidingimportant benefitsthat will endureandnowthere is aneedto expand
rural forestry management to the rest o fthe country ifdonors canbe found. The project has
shown how difficult it i s to promote commercial fuels to the greater proportion of the
population that is so poor andthat such promotiontakes a long-term strategy.

Lessons Learned

65.     Themainlessons from this evaluation are as follows:

    e   Substantial effort i s necessaryto integrate economic restructuringreforms with
        social andpoverty reductionobjectives.
    e   The Bankneeds to ensure that the rationale for reforms (Le., better provision of
        energy services to the public) i s clear to domestic stakeholders.
    e   "Ownership" of aproject or an element o f aproject is keyto its success andit is
        necessaryto ensurethat project partners are fully committed to the aims andthe
        approach taken. This occurred for the successful household energy component but
        not for the electricity component.
    e   A dynamic, supportive, andcommitted approach bythe Bankthroughout the
        lifetime o f the project i s vital to success, as was the case inthe household energy
        component o f this project.
    e   Regularpost-project follow-up byBank operational staff (e.g., while supervising
        other ongoing projects) may be neededto ensure that projects are meetingtheir
        long-term objectives andto reinforce to project partners the commitment o f the
        Bankto the reformprocessesinthe recipient countries.

                                               16


Outlook

66.      The outlook for Niger's energy sector and for the continuing sustainability o f the
credit are guardedly positive. Undoubtedly, the electricity sector has to evolve. Only 6
percent o f the population currently have access to electricity, whether through grid-based
or off-grid electricity and this needs to increase significantly to have a positive effect on
poverty alleviation. There are some inconsistencies that have to be addressed. For
example, NIGELEC, inits new credit from the West African Development Bank, intends
to import more electricity from Nigeria, while at the same time the draft energy
declaration presentedto the govemment seeks to reduce imports. NIGELEC should be
part o fthe solutionbut it acts as a traditional utilitywith little consideration o fmodern
management approaches to public service. Itwould help ifthere were a more
comprehensive, structured approach to senior management training to help managers
understand how public service andindustry/economic reforms can bebrought together.
Some o f its thinking i s affected by comparable issues inEurope, where some o fthe same
debates are going on. Yet, European countries, unlikeNiger, have mature electricity
systems, Niger needs to see some examples throughout the world, particularly inAfica,
o fhow reforms can be a positive force.

67.      Wood consumption continues to grow and needs to be reduced, but the
alternatives are not affordable for the majority o f the urbanpopulation. New funding
approaches are needed to breakthe vicious circle: people are too poor for a greater share
o f the populationto afford modernenergy services and yet poverty will not be
sufficiently reduced untila greater share o fthe populationhas the necessary energy
services. Yet, wood supply is not sustainable inthe long-term, givenpopulation growth
andcurrent consumption patterns.

68.     Niger i s very proud that its wood energy project was the first inthe region and
that others (e.g., Mali and Chad) have built upon the experience gained since the
beginningofthe Niger EnergyProject." The IDA credit was important inproviding
Nigerwith tools for the development o fits overall energy policy andit has provideda
foundation for the other energy strategies and action plans that are beingdeveloped and
implemented. This effort has to be sustained as the country develops other affordable
alternatives and as new ways are found to expand and make the use o f LPG andkerosene
more affordable.

69.     Nigeris seriously hamperedby a lack o f govemment funding, even for small
amounts o f money for documentation centers andtesting laboratories. The GONhas to
focus on its priorities: ifthe govemment believes there is sufficient oil potentialto lure in
internationalcompanies, then it has to provide more resources to encourage international
companies to explore inthe country inlarge part bybetter supportingthe documentation
center. Interms o f ensuringpetroleumproduct standards are maintained, again the GON
has to decide whether it believes it is important for a country to do so or whether it will
simply accept what traders sell.



11. See GeraldFoley, PaulKerkhofandDjibrilla Madougou, A Reviewofthe RuralFirewoodMarket
StrategyinWest Africa, Africa RegioinWorkingPaper Series, Number 35, The WorldBank, August 2002.

                                               17


70.     Fundingis also necessary for helpingthe population switchto appliances that use
commercial fuels. Yet, even that may not be sufficient as the greater share o fthe urban
population cannot afford the fuel. The project did not provide subsidies for fuel
consumption, rather buildingan infrastructure and supporting the promotion o f more
efficient stoves. The issue o f subsidies has to be addressedto determine whether they are
feasible or appropriate, given the sector priorities.

71.     Policy development i s improving. A better vision o fwhere it wants to go i s
evolving. A,wider audience i s involved inenergypolicy and that is healthy.
Decentralization has gained momentum although it has to be ensuredthat this is not an
easy way out for the GONto shirk responsibilities. The Energy Declarationis before the
government. The National Strategy andAction Plan on Renewable Energy was published
inMay2003. TheDomestic EnergyStrategy (SED) is movingforward. These are
positive steps that builduponthis Bankproject.

72.     With the good analytical skills that are there, there is now a needto better
formulate proposals to potential donors the way forward. There are a lot o fpositive signs
butNiger needscontinuingsupport from theBank.The dissemination ofthe Bank's
knowledge and experiences from other countries (developing anddeveloped) are needed
to build on the energypolicy foundation that this project has helpedprovide. Yet, since
the completion o f this project, the Bank has not had any involvement inNiger, inany o f
the individualcomponents. At a minimum, there should be an ESMAP study to assess
where the energy sector i s today andwhat new initiatives and investments are needed to
create a more effective and robust sector that i s achievingthe economic, environmental,
and social goals o f the country.


                                                  19




Bibliography

Gerald Foley, Paul Kerkhof and Djibrilla Madougou, A Review o f the Rural FirewoodMarket
        Strategy inWest Africa, A h c a Region Working Paper Series Number 35, The World
        Bank, Washington, August 2002.
GamatiC-Bayard Mariama, Ali Mahamane, Groupement Cirad-f6ret-Louis Berger, Bilan des
        marchts ruraux de bois-tnergie, PAFN, Ministkre de I'Hydraulique, de 1'Environnement
        et de la Lutte contre la Dtsertification, Juin2003.
L'indicateur, Bulletin semestriel d'information au service de la strattgie "Energie domestique,"
ElhadjiMahamane Lawali, Gerard Madon, KiTounao, Pierre Montagne, Willem Floor and
        Gerald Foley, The Niger Household Energy Project: Promoting Rural FuelwoodMarkets
        and Village Management o f Natural Woodlands, World Bank Technical Paper No. 362,
        May 1997.
Michel Matly, Groupement Cirad-f6ret-Louis Berger, Appui pour I'Elaboration des outils de
        communication sur les enjeux de la SED, Aide-mtmoire, PAFN, Ministkre de
        l'Hydraulique, de I'Environnement et de la Lutte contra la DCsertification, 17-24
        Octobre, 2003.
Michel Matly, Groupement Cirad-fi3ret-Louis Berger, L'hdicateur dubois-tnergie au Niger,
        PAFN, Ministhe de l'Hydraulique, de 1'Environnement et de la Lutte contre la
        Dtsertification, Octobre 2003.
Ministkre des Mines et de I'Energie, Dtclarationde politique Cnergetique, Novembre 2003.
Projet Energie Domestique, Guide pratique de mise en place et de suivi des march& ruraux de
        bois-knergie, Ministkre de l'Hydraulique, de 1'Environnement et de la Lutte contra la
        Dtsertification, Bureau de CooptrationDanoise, DCcembre 2002.
World Bank, A Brighter Future? Energy inAfrica's Development, A Sector Strategy for the
       World Bank Group, undated.
World Bank, Energy and MiningSector Board, The World Bank Group's Energy Program-
       Poverty Reduction, Sustainability and Selectivity, December 2001.


                                           21                                  Annex A




Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

NIGERENERGY       PROJECT(CREDIT1880-NIR)

Key ProjectData
Component             Appraisal              Actual                 Actual
                      ($million)             ($million)          Percentage
                                                                    Share
HouseholdEnergy         9.4                    16.2                    53
Electricity            53.5                     9.4                    31
Petroleum               3.0                     4.8                    16
Total                  65.9                    30.4                   100


Source              Appraisal Estimate    Actual
IDA                        31.5            17.5
KFW                        10.0            NIA
EIB                        6.3             NIA
DANIDA                     11.5            10.3
GovernmenffNIGELEC         6.6             2.6
Total                      65.9            30.4


CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
             FY88 FY89    FY90      FY91   FY92    FY93  FY94     FY95     FY96  FY97
Appraisal     0.7  5.0      11.3     18.3   23.9    28.0   30.6     31.5   31.5   31.5
Estimate
Actual        0.0  2.4       5.5      7.3   9.2     11.3   12.0     13.5    15.3  17.5
Actual as     0.0  48.0    48.7      39.9   38.5    40.4   41.2    42.9    49.0   55.0
% of
estimate

ProjectDates
                               Original                          Actual
Negotiations                  October 1987                     October 1987
BoardApproval                February1988                   February23, 1988
Effectiveness                   July 1988                      July 1, 1988
Closing Date              December31,1994                   December31, 1996


Staff Inputs(staffweeks)
                       Actual No. Staff Weeks           Actual US$ (000s)
Pre-appraisal                    13.9                         36.3
Appraisal                       57.9                         165.1
Negotiations                    71.7                         56.2
Supervision                     214.5                       294.1
Completion                       6.5                          17.7

                                                           22


MissionData
                        Date         No. of       Staff         Specializations         Performance rating
                      (month/ persons             days          represented
                        Year)                    in field
Supervision 1             03/98           2          4                 FA, EE
Supervision 2             05/89           2         12               FA, EE, PE                      1
Supervision 3             01/91           1         10                 FA, EE                        2
Supervision 4             10191           2          9              FA,2EE, EP                       2
Supervision 5             02/92          4          18                 EP, FA                       213


Supervision 6           05-06/93          1                            EE, ES                        3


Supervision 7             06193          2          12                   EP                          3
Supervision 8             06/94          2                             EP, ES


Supervision 9             03/95          2          13                EC, EE                         S




Completion                12/96          2          17                EC, PA                            S
Specializahon: EC=Energy Economist; EE=blectncal bngineer; bP=Energy Planner; ES=Energy Specialist; FA=Financial Analyst;
PA=Project Assistant; PE=Petroleum Engineer
PFojectRatingCodes: 1=no significant problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems; S=Satisfactory
Source: Project files and Bank staffestimates


Other ProjectData
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON    OPERATIONS
Operation                                                    Credit no.           Amount               Board date
                                                                               (US$ million)
None.



