Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1880 NIR
                         (Energy Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated March 18, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1880 NIR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March  18,  1988,  between Republic of Niger
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A and C of the  Project will be carried out by DFF
and DE (as hereinafter defined),  respectively,  and Part B of the
Project will be carried  out  by  NIGELEC (as hereinafter defined)
with the Borrower's assistance  and,  as  part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available  to  NIGELEC part of the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends   to   obtain   from  the  Danish
International Development  Agency  (DANIDA)  a  grant  (the DANIDA
Grant)  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  $10,300,000  to  assist in
financing Part A of the  project  on  the terms and conditions set
Page  2
forth  in  an  agreement  (hereinafter  called  the  DANIDA  Grant
Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and the
Association as  administrator  of  the  funds  provided  by DANIDA
pursuant to an administrative  agreement, dated December 29, 1987,
between DANIDA and the Association;
     (D)  by an  agreement  dated  December  18, 1987 (hereinafter
called  the  EIB  Loan  Agreement)  the  European  Investment Bank
(hereinafter called EIB) has  agreed  to  make a loan (hereinafter
called the EIB Loan) in  an  amount equivalent to fourteen million
three hundred thousand European Currency Units (ECU 14,300,000) to
assist in financing the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in the EIB Loan Agreement;
     (E)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Kreditanstalt
f¯r Wiederaufbau  (hereinafter  called  KfW)  a grant (hereinafter
called the KfW  Grant)  in  an  amount  of twenty million Deutsche
Marks (DM 20,000,000) to  assist  in  financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the KfW Grant Agreement) to  be  entered into between the Borrower
and KfW; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and NIGELEC;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and NIGELEC of even date  herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower  and NIGELEC pursuant to Section
3.O1 (d) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters  dated July 13, 1983, October 19,
1983, February 13, 1987  and  March  20, 1987 between the Borrower
and the Association.
     (e)  "DE" means the Direction de l'Energie of the Borrower;
     (f)  "DFF" means the Direction des  For§ts  et de la Faune of
the Borrower;
     (g)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
runs from October 1 to September 30;
Page  3
     (h)  "NEPA" means the  National  Electric  Power Authority of
Nigeria; and
     (i)  "NIGELEC"  means  Sociåtå  Nigårienne  d'Electricitå,  a
sociåtå anonyme d'åconomie mixte existing under the laws of Niger.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to twenty four  million  seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,700,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  CFA  Francs  two  special  accounts  in a
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Accounts shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1994
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as may, from time to
time, be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  May  1,  1998  and   ending  November  1,  2027.  Each
Page  4
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
November 1, 2007  shall  be  one  percent  (1%)  of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association,  and after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time  to time provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. For purposes of  Part B of the Project, NIGELEC
is designated as representative  of  the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required  or  permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.O2 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall  carry  out Parts A.3, A.4 and C
of the Project  through  DE,  Parts  A.1  and  A.2  of the Project
through DFF, under the  overall  responsibility of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy and the  Ministry of Agriculture and Environment,
respectively, and Part B of  the Project through NIGELEC, with due
diligence and  efficiency  and  in  conformity    with appropriate
administrative, financial  and  engineering  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly, as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this  Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause
NIGELEC to  perform  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
Project Agreement  all  the  obligations  of  NIGELEC  therein set
forth, shall take and cause to  be taken all action, including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable  NIGELEC  to  perform  such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part B of the
Project:
          (i)  relend to NIGELEC the proceeds of the Credit as may
Page  5
               be allocated from time  to  time to Category (1) of
               the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
               this Agreement  (except  for  the  proceeds  of the
               Credit allocated from  time  to  time to Categories
               (1) (d) and (f) for  Parts  B.4  (a) and B.4 (b) of
               the Project) under  a  subsidiary loan agreement to
               be entered into  between  the Borrower and NIGELEC,
               under terms and  conditions  which  shall have been
               approved by the Association  which shall include an
               interest  rate  equal  to  7.76%  and  a  20  years
               repayment period  including  a  grace  period  of 5
               years, and NIGELEC shall  bear the foreign exchange
               risk on such onlending; and
         (ii)  make available  to  NIGELEC  on  a  grant basis the
               proceeds of the Credit  allocated from time to time
               to Categories (1)  (d)  and  (f)  of  the table set
               forth  in  paragraph  1   of  Schedule  1  to  this
               Agreement for Parts  B.4  (a)  and  B.4  (b) of the
               Project.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit  and,  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part B of the  Project  shall be carried out by NIGELEC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall:  (a) review annually with
the Association by  September  30,  its  overall  strategy for the
energy sector  including  the  investment  program  and its sector
policies related to tariffs, prices and taxes; and
     (b)  obtain the Association's prior  approval for any invest-
ment in the energy sector over the equivalent of $10,000,000.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out Parts A and
C of the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including the Special
               Accounts related to Parts  A  and  C of the Project
               for each Fiscal  Year  audited,  in accordance with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
Page  6
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               completion of  the  audit  for  the  Fiscal Year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such Fiscal  Year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  Upon  completion  of  the  update of NIGELEC's
tariff study  to  be  executed  under  Credit  No.  1511  NIR, the
Borrower shall  review  with  the  Association the recommendations
emanating from  said  study  and,  promptly  thereafter,  take all
necessary actions to implement, not  later than December 31, 1988,
those  recommendations   of   the   study   satisfactory   to  the
Association.
     Section 4.03. Without any limitation  upon any of its obliga-
tions under  Section  3.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement, the Borrower
shall, starting with its  Fiscal  Year 1988/89, make adequate bud-
getary allocations to  pay  for  its overall estimated electricity
consumption and take all necessary measures for the prompt payment
of the related electricity bills.
     Section  4.04.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
December 31, 1988,  cause  NIGELEC  to  reduce  all receivables of
NIGELEC to an amount not greater than the equivalent of the amount
billed for the previous  three  months, and to maintain thereafter
the amount of said  receivables  to  such  level; and (b) take all
necessary measures to authorize NIGELEC to interrupt the supply of
electricity to all consumers with bills overdue more than 90 days.
     Section 4.05. Unless  the  Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
     (a)  increase taxes on firewood  consumption to levels and in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  reduce the sales  price  of  kerosene  from CFAF 145 per
liter to CFAF 105 per liter, not later than June 30, 1988; and
     (c)  reduce by 50%  the  taxes  and  duties applicable to the
Page  7
import and sale of kerosene  stoves,  not later than September 30,
1988.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  NIGELEC shall have failed to  perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NIGELEC will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The laws of the  Borrower  regulating NIGELEC shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed  or  waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the  ability of NIGELEC to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NIGELEC or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this
Agreement shall have been  amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived.
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any grant  or  loan or credit made
                    to  the  Borrower  for  the  financing  of the
                    Project shall  have  been suspended, cancelled
                    or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any such loan or  credit shall have become due
                    and  payable  prior  to  the  agreed  maturity
                    thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower from other source on terms and
                    conditions consistent with  the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
Page  8
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section  2.O1 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and NIGELEC.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by  NIGELEC,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  NIGELEC in
accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower and NIGELEC and is legally
binding upon  the  Borrower  and  NIGELEC  in  accordance with its
terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
3.04, 4.03  and  4.04  of  this  Agreement  and  the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b)  of  Section  5.02  of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on  the  date  of which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the  date ten years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.O9 of this
Agreement, the Minister of  the  Borrower responsible for Planning
is designated as representative  of  the Borrower for the purposes
of Section ll.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minist®re du Plan
          B.P. 862
          Niamey
          Republic of Niger
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINIPLAN                          5463 NI
               Niamey
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  9
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                    By /s/ Joseph Diatta
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Part B of
     the Project:
     (a)  civil works for          400,000       50%
          Part B.5
     (b)  supplies and          10,870,000       80%
          erection for
          Part B.2
          and B.3
     (c)  consultants'           1,450,000       100%
          services for
          supervision
          of civil works
          under Part B.1
     (d)  consultants'           1,150,000       100%
          services for
          Part B.4 (a)
     (e)  goods for              1,960,000       80%
          Part B.5
                            Amount of the
Page  10
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (f)  technical              2,970,000       100%
          assistance,
          training and
          consultants'
          services
          (except for
          Part B.4 (a))
(2)  Part C of
     the Project:
     (a)  consultants'           1,790,000       100% of foreign
          services                               expenditures
          (except for
          Part C.5)
     (b)  consultants'             100,000       100% of foreign
          services for                           expenditures
          Part C.5
(3)  Refunding of                  400,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(4)  Unallocated                 3,610,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 24,700,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this   Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
provided, however, that if  the  currency  of the Borrower is also
that of another  country  from  the  territory  of  which goods or
services are  supplied,  expenditures  in  such  currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures made in respect of Category (1) (a) through
(f) unless:
          (i)  the  KfW  Grant   Agreement   and  the  EIB  Credit
               Agreement have been executed  and delivered and all
               conditions precedent to  their  effectiveness or to
               the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make withdrawals
               thereunder have been fulfilled; and
         (ii)  the Borrower and Nigeria, and NIGELEC and NEPA have
               concluded   arrangements,   satisfactory   to   the
               Association, for the construction and management of
               the transmission line referred to under Part B.1 of
               the Project;
     (c)  expenditures made in respect  of Category (1) (d) unless
the Association has determined that  the project referred to under
Part  B.4  (a)  of  the   Project  is  economically  feasible  and
environmentally sound; and
Page  11
     (d)  expenditures made in respect  of Category (2) (b) unless
the Borrower has  concluded  with  Chad  and Nigeria, arrangements
satisfactory to the Association,  for  the financing and execution
of the studies referred to under Part C .5 of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower in
increasing the performance  of  its  energy  sector through, inter
alia, the: (i) promotion of firewood conservation, substitution of
energy sources  and  improved  management  of  the  natural forest
cover; (ii) promotion  of  renewable  energies; (iii) promotion of
lower conservation and provision of electricity at least cost; and
(iv) improvement in the administration of petroleum exploration.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Household Energy
1.   Development  of  a  firewood  trade  monitoring  and taxation
system, including  the  construction  of  firewood checkpoints and
provision  of   vehicles,   equipment,   training   and  technical
assistance to DFF.
2.   Zoning of areas around  urban  centers by firewood potential,
preparation of firewood supply management and incentive plans, and
establishment of rural firewood markets and production areas.
3.   Promotion of:  (a)  the  local  manufacture  and marketing of
improved  woodstoves;  and  (b)  the  local  manufacture  and  the
importation and marketing of improved kerosene and LPG stoves.
4.   Preparation  and  implementation   of   a  pilot  program  of
renewable energies.
Part B:   Electric Power
1.   Construction of the  portion  in  Niger  (about  300 Km) of a
single  circuit  132  kV  transmission  line  and  installation of
132/20 kV substation facilities  between  Maradi and Zinder in the
eastern part of Niger and Katsina in Nigeria.
2.   Rehabilitation of a  132  kV  transmission line between Anou-
Araren and Akokan in the northern mining region of Niger.
3.   Construction of about 80 Km of transmission lines from Gazona
to Aguiå and Tersaona, and  from Maradi to Tchadona, and rehabili-
tation and extension of 20 kV and low voltage distribution facili-
ties in Niamey and in  the  eastern part of Niger (including elec-
trification of new centers).
4.   (a)  Engineering study and preparation of bid documents for a
future hydroelectric project at Ganbou;
     (b)  load management study  for  the  Niger Valley and imple-
mentation on a pilot basis of the recommendation of said study;
     (c)  update of the  distribution  and transmission masterplan
for the Niger Valley; and
     (d)  other studies within the Project's objectives, including
a technical and economical feasibility  study to expand the inter-
connected system.
5.   Carrying  out  of  training  programs  for  NIGELEC's  staff,
construction of  office  building,  and  acquisition of equipment,
materials and vehicles related thereto.
Page  12
Part C:   Petroleum
1.   Retrieval,  reprocessing  and  archiving  of  geological  and
geophysical data.
2.   Organization of laboratory, storage and information retrieval
facilities for petroleum samples and data.
3.   Review of  the  legal  framework  for  the  petroleum sector,
including taxation and institutional organization of said sector.
4.   A comprehensive study  of  the Borrower's sedimentary basins,
including  the  compilation,   evaluation  and  interpretation  of
existing and newly acquired geological and geophysical data.
5.   Carrying out of the Niger portion  of a regional study of the
geology of  the  basins  shared  by  the  Borrower  with  Chad and
Nigeria.
6.   Preparation of a strategy for the administration of petroleum
exploration,  and  implementation   of   a  petroleum  exploration
promotion campaign in the concession free areas.
7.   Training programs for DE's staff and acquisition of equipment
related thereto.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts B and  C  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Category in accordance with the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount of
CFAF 150,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account for  Part B of the Project; and
(ii) an amount of CFAF 50,000,000  to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the  Special  Account for Part C of the
Project, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of any Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the corresponding Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish  the  appropriate  Special  Account  may  be  made as
follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
appropriate Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
Page  13
shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of a  Special  Account  at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the appropriate  Special  Account  such  amounts  as shall be
required to replenish the  said  Special  Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the respective
eligible Category, and  in  the  respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified  by  the evidence supporting the request
for  such  deposit  furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of this
Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Category  for  Parts B and C
               of the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered  into by the Association
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the General Conditions
               with respect to Parts B and C of the Project, shall
               be equal to the  equivalent  of twice the amount of
               the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Category for Parts B  and  C  of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association  shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit  in  a Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
appropriate Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Association  shall so
request, refund to the Association)  an amount equal to the amount
of  such  payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or
justified.  No  further  deposit   by  the  Association  into  the
appropriate Special Account shall  be  made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
Page  14
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Niger may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Equipment, tools and vehicles estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $2,900,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to  be made out of any of the
Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the prece-
ding paragraph, the procedures set forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out  of  any of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
Page  15
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  10%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
