Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1880 NIR
                         (Energy Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                 SOCIETE NIGERIENNE D'ELECTRICITE
                       Dated March 18, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1880 NIR
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  March   18,   1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association)  and SOCIETE NIGERIENNE
D'ELECTRICITE (NIGELEC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Niger (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies  equivalent to twenty four million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,700,000), on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition  that NIGELEC agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association  as  are set forth in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower  and  NIGELEC,  part  of  the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to NIGELEC on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  NIGELEC,  in   consideration  of  the  Association's
Page  2
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective  meanings  therein  set forth and the
term "Fiscal Year"  means  NIGELEC's  fiscal  year which runs from
January 1 to December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  NIGELEC   declares   its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement  and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Part B of the  Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices,  and  shall  provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part B of the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. NIGELEC  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.04. NIGELEC shall  duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NIGELEC  shall  not  take  or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning  or  waiving  the   Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05.  (a)  NIGELEC  shall,  at  the  request  of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Part  B  of  the  Project,  the performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and  other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  NIGELEC shall  promptly  inform  the  Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Part  B  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the
purposes of the  Credit,  or  the  performance  by  NIGELEC of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.06. In  order  to  carry  out  Part  B.4 (a) of the
Project, NIGELEC  shall  submit  to  the  Association for approval
evidence that the conditions referred  to under paragraph 3 (e) of
Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
               Management and Operations of NIGELEC
     Section 3.01.  NIGELEC  shall  carry  on  its  operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, and public utilities practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. NIGELEC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section  3.03.  NIGELEC  shall  take  out  and  maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04.  NIGELEC  shall,  not  later  than December 31,
1988, introduce in its computerized accounting system applications
for cost accounting, inventory  control, fixed assets register and
cash management.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) NIGELEC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  NIGELEC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related statements)  and  Special Account B for
               each  Fiscal  Year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, NIGELEC shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until one  year  after  the Association has
               received the audit  report  for  the Fiscal Year in
               which the last disbursement from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
Page  4
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   Fiscal   Year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, NIGELEC shall generate, for  each of its Fiscal Years after
its Fiscal Year ending on  December  31, 1987, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than a reasonable percentage of the
annual average of the  capital  expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that  year,  the previous Fiscal Year and next
following Fiscal Year.
     (b)  Before November 30 in each  of its Fiscal Years, NIGELEC
shall,  on  the  basis  of   forecasts  prepared  by  NIGELEC  and
satisfactory to the Association, review  whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the  next  following  Fiscal  Year  and  shall  furnish to the
Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that NIGELEC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for NIGELEC's Fiscal Years
covered by such review, NIGELEC  shall promptly take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its  tariffs)  in  order  to  meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to   electric   power   operations,   consumer
                    deposits and consumer  contributions in aid of
                    construction, net non-operating income and any
                    reduction in working  capital other than cash;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of  all  expenses  related to electric
                    power  operations,  including  administration,
                    adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in
                    lieu of taxes  (excluding provision for depre-
                    ciation and other non-cash operating charges),
                    debt service requirements,  all cash dividends
                    and  other  cash   distributions  of  surplus,
                    increase in  working  capital  other than cash
                    and other  cash  outflows  other  than capital
                    expenditures.
         (ii)  The  terms  "net  non-operating  income"  means the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               Fiscal Year.
Page  5
         (iv)  The  term  "current  assets  excluding  cash" means
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next Fiscal Year.
          (v)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer advances,  taxes  and payments in
               lieu of taxes, and dividends.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
        (vii)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures incurred on account  of fixed assets, includ-
               ing interest  charged  to  construction, related to
               operations.
       (viii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, NIGELEC  shall  not  incur  any  debt  unless  a reasonable
forecast of the revenues  and  expenditures  of NIGELEC shows that
the estimated net revenues of  NIGELEC for each Fiscal Year during
the term of the debt to  be  incurred  shall be at least 1.5 times
the estimated debt service requirements of NIGELEC in such year on
all debt of NIGELEC including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt"  means  any indebtedness of NIGELEC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
               (A)  under a loan  contract  or  agreement or other
                    nstrument providing for  such  debt or for the
                    modification of its  terms  of  payment on the
                    date   of   such    contract,   agreement   or
                    instrument; and
               (B)  under a guarantee  agreement,  on the date the
                    agreement  providing  for  such  guarantee has
                    been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including  administration,   adequate  mainte-
                    nance, taxes and  payments  in  lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
Page  6
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  the  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by NIGELEC not  earlier than twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which both the  Association  and  NIGELEC accept as
               reasonable and  as  to  which  the  Association has
               notified  NIGELEC  of  its  acceptability, provided
               that no event has  occurred since such notification
               which has, or  may  reasonably  be  expected in the
               future to have,  a  material  adverse effect on the
               financial condition or  future operating results of
               NIGELEC.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.04. NIGELEC shall: (i)  not later than December 31,
1988, reduce its electricity receivables  to an amount not greater
than the equivalent of  the  amount  billed for the previous three
months; and (ii) maintain thereafter  the receivables at an amount
not greater than the amount billed for the previous three months.
     Section 4.05. NIGELEC shall make sufficient annual provisions
for depreciation and revewal  of  fixed  assets in accordance with
sound accounting practices.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and  of  NIGELEC  thereunder  shall  terminate  on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the  date  10   years   after   the  date  of  this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
Page  7
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
NIGELEC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For NIGELEC:
          NIGELEC
          B.P. 11202
          Niamey
          Niger
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                NIGELEC                        5224 NI
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  NIGELEC,  or  by  NIGELEC on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development  Credit  Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its Director General  or  such other person or persons
as NIGELEC shall designate  in  writing, and NIGELEC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient  evidence  of  the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    SOCIETE NIGERIENNE D'ELECTRICITE
                    By /s/ Joseph Diatta
                                        Authorized Representative
