Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14701-KG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOiT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVKLWPENT PROJECT
APRIL 23, 1996
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(after May 10, 1993)
Currency Unit   =  Som
I Som    =  100 tiying
US$1    =   10.6 Som
MARKET EXCHANGE RATES
Som per US$1
Period Average               End of Period
December 1993                      6.0                         8.3
December 1994                     11.0                        10.6
December 1995                     10.8                        11.2
March 1996                        10.8                         10.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APEAC          Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
ASSP           Agricultural Support Services Project
ATAS           Agricultural Training and Advisory Services
CG             Consultative Group
CPR            Country Procurement Report
DLMD           Department of Livestock Management and Development
DLSS           Development of Livestock Support Services
DVS            Department of Veterinary Services
EU (TACIS)   European Community Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization
FSU            Former Soviet Union
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IDF            Institution Development Facility
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRR            Internal Rate of Return
KSBA           Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LRS            Livestock Regulatory Services
MAF            Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOET           Multiple Ovulation and Embryo Transfer
MS             Master of Science
NBF            Non-Bank Financed
NBK            National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
NGO            Non-Government Organization
PESAC          Privatization and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Credit
PhD            Doctor of Philosophy
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PRFS           Pilot Revolving Fund Scheme
PSC            Project Steering Committee
RSBA           Regional Sheep Breeders' Association
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SBRS           Sheep Breeding and Research Support
SCNP           State Committee of Nature Protection
SDP            Sheep Development Project
SIE            Scientific Industrial Enterprise
SPED           Sheep Private Enterprise Development
SPGA           Sheep Breeders' Group/Association
SOE            Statement of Expenses
SSCLU          State Scientific Center for Land Resources and Use
TA             Technical Assistance
US             United States
WMC            Wool Marketing Center






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMDENT PROJECT
Contents
Page No.
CREDI AND PROJECT SUMMARY .
I. TbE AGRICULTuRAL SECTOR .1
Agriculture in the Kyrgyz Economy.                                                                    I
Status of Agricultural Reforms.                                                                       2
Reforms in the State Procurement System.                                                       2
Land Reform and Farm Restructuring.                                                            3
The Role of Government.                                                                        3
The Sheep Industry.                                                                                   4
Structural Trends in the Sheep Industry.                                                       4
Potential of the Industry.                                                                     7
Pasture Resources.                                                                             8
Sheep and Wool Processing and Marketing.                                                       9
Support Services  .         .....................................   10
W.       BANK LENDING EXPEREENCE AND SECTOR STRATEGY   .....................  11
Bank's Lending Strategy for Agriculture ...........................  11
Bank's Experience and Lessons   ................................  12
Project Design Options .           .....................................   13
III.     THE PROJECT  ..............................................   14
Objectives and Brief Description .........                    .......................  14
Project Objectives . ..................................... 14
Brief Project Description  ..........                  .......................  14
Detailed Project Features   .           ...................................  14
Sheep Private Enterprise Development  ........................  14
Sheep Producers' Groups/Associations  ........................  14
Regional Sheep Breeders' Associations  ........................  16
Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association ..........................  17
Wool and Lamb Marketing System    ..........................  17
Development of Livestock Support Services .....................  20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (May/June 1995) led by Barnabas K. Zegge (Task Manager). Others who
parficipated in the IDA mission and/or contributed to this report include ljaart W. Schillhorn-Van Veen (AGRTN), Robert Simsolo,
Hudson Glimp, Roben Stoban, Jane Kwak and P.K. Subramanian (Consultants). Gallus Mukami (SA2AG) and Dirk van der Sluijs
(MN2NE) were peer reviewers. Claude Blanchi (ECAVP), Marc Blanc, Mohammad Ashraf and Pervaiz Rashid (EC3DR) provided
operational guidance. Michael A. Gould and Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for
this operation. Sabrina Sally provided secretial support.



Project Implementation Unit ............................... 20
Agricultural Training and Advisory Services  .................... 21
Animal Health Services ..................................  23
Sheep Breeding Research Support  ........................... 24
Pasture and Fodder Research ...............................  26
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING    ..................................  28
Project Costs ............................................. 28
Financing Plan  .      ..........................................  28
Procurement ............................................. 30
Disbursements  .       ..........................................  33
Accounting and Auditing   ..........               ..........................  34
Reporting and Monitoring  ..........               ..........................  35
V.      PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION  ....                            .......... 36
Implementation Strategy   ..........                ..........................  36
Project Management  .           ......................................  36
Project Implementation Plan  ..................................  37
Beneficiary and NGO Participation  ..............................  37
Annual Work Plans and Budgets .......... .......................... 38
Project Supervision .... .   .................................... 38
Implementation Completion Report ...............................   39
VI.  PRoJEcT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................. 40
Project Benefits  ................................  40
Farmers' Financial Returns  ................................    41
KSBA Financial Projections ................................    42
Economic Benefits and Costs ................................    42
Impact on Women ..           ................................  43
Impact on Poverty ...........                    .....................  44
Sustainability ................................                                            44
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery   ...............................   44
Impact on Private Sector Development . ...........................  44
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis ................................    45
Environmental Aspects ................................. 46
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDAION   ...............................   47
ECONOMIC AND FINANCiAL ANALYSIS SUPPORTING TABLES    .                             .49
TABLES
4.1     Summary of Project Costs (including contingencies)  ........            ..       .............  29
4.2     Summary of Project Costs per Categories (including contingencies) ......                ........ 30
4.3     Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ........                ..       ..............  32
6:1    Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Computation  .............................  50
6: la    Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Improved Kyrgyz Fine Wool (with project) ... 52
6. lb    Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Kyrgyz Fine Wool (without project)  .. ..... 53



6. Ic   Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Kyrgyz Dual Purpose Sheep Breed (with project) 54
6. Id   Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Alai Strong Wool and Fat-tailed Meat Sheep
(without project) ..............................................  55
6.2    Kyrgyz Wool Marketing, Testing and Information Center - Profit and Loss Account ... 56
6.3    Kyrgyz Wool Marketing, Testing and Information Center - Balance Sheet .          57
6.4    Kyrgyz Wool Marketing, Testing and Information Center - Funds Flow Statement . ..   58
6.5    Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association - Profit and Loss Account ................  59
6.6    Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association - Balance Sheet .......................  60
6.7    Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association - Funds Flow Statement .................  61
ANNEXES
Annex A    Detailed Cost Tables ..........         .............................  62
Annex B    Environmental Mitigation Statement .............................  75
Annex C    Implementation Plan  ..........         .............................  77
Annex D    Project Objectives and Monitorable Indicators ..... ............ 86
Annex E    Schedule of Project Supervision ................................  87
Annex F    Terms of Reference for Consultants .............................. 88
Annex G    Estimated Disbursement Schedule ............................... 102
Annex H   Procurement Plan .................................... 105
MLAP IBRD No. 26822
TECHNICAL ANNEXES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION FILE
Annex 1       Project Implementation Unit
Annex 2       Agricultural Training and Advisory Services
Annex 3       Animal Health Services
Annex 4       Sheep Breeding Research
Annex 5       Pasture and Land Resources
Annex 6       Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Associations
Annex 7       Wool Marketing System
Annex 8       Detailed Procurement Plan
Annex 9       Project Operational Manual






KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SDP)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Kyrgyz Republic.
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF).
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Agriculture and Food and participating private farmers and sheep
breeders.
Poverty:               Measures to increase sheep and wool productivity, the proposed removal of
export taxes and improvement in wool and lamb marketing system would have
considerable impact on raising the income of sheep producers who constitute
the poorest segment of the rural population.
Amount:                SDR 7.8 million (US$11.6 million equivalent).
Terns:                 Standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:        0.5 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be passed on to participating Sheep
Breeders' Associations as grants for technical assistance, training and
operating expenditures in initial year of operation and on a full cost recovery
basis in subsequent years.  After the first year, loans to producers'
associations would bear an interest rate determined on the basis of the
rediscount rate of the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan and be repayable in no
more than five years including a grace period of no more than two years.
Project Financing:     Total project costs are estimated at US$16.8 million equivalent. IDA would
finance US$11.6 million, or 69 percent of project costs, and 91 percent of
foreign exchange costs (approximately US$12.7 million). Government would
contribute US$1.7 million, or about 10 percent of project costs, mainly
through salaries for incremental local staff.  IFAD  would contribute
approximately US$3.5 million. IFAD financing would be earmarked for
supporting the promotion of farmers' organizations, and ATAS (Agricultural
Training and Advisory Services). On the basis of annual work plans and
budgets, the PIU would disburse project funds to meet incremental recurrent
expenses of DLMD and DVS for project activities. In line with its policy to
promote the development of the private sector, Government is agreeable, in
principle, to disburse project funds to the KSBA and its affiliates, on a grant
basis.



- 11 -
Financing Plan:
Financing Source              Local     Foreign    Total    Component
as Percent
(US$ million equivalent)  of Total
IDA                                        2.10       9.48     11.58       69
IFAD                                       0.25       3.25      3.50        21
Government of Kyrgyz Republic               1.70      -         1.70        10
Total                                      4.05      12.73     16.78       100
Percent of Total                          24.10      75.90    100.00
Economic Rate of Return:                         57 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:                          14701-KG
Map:                                             IBRD 26822
Project ID Number:                               KG-PA-8513



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Kyrgyz Economy
1.1    Agriculture is an important sector of the Kyrgyz economy as it accounts for roughly 30 percent
of GDP and approximately one-third of employment. An additional 10 percent of the labor force is
employed in industries processing fiber, food, and agricultural by-products. Farm input and service
enterprises add to the overall impact of agriculture to account for more than 50 percent of GDP.
Livestock products contribute significantly to the gross value of agricultural output. In 1994, the
livestock share was estinated at 60 percent of the gross value of agricultural output at 1983 constant
prices. The importance of livestock production is also reflected in current land use patterns, accounting
for over 85 percent of agricultural land.
1.2    About half of the total value of Kyrgyz exports come from the agricultural sector. The mnain
agricultural export products are wool, tobacco, cotton, and hides and skins which accounted for 90
percent of agricultural exports. In terms of value, wool is the most important export. There is good
potential for increasing exports of live lamb and mutton.
1.3   Irrigation is critical to agricultural production in the country, covering over 80 percent of arable
land. The main crops grown are wheat, barley, maize, cotton, tobacco, sugar beet, sunflower, potato,
vegetables, fruits and fodder crops. Winter wheat is the dominant cereal crop, accounting for over 40
percent of the 624,000 hectares under grain in 1993. Spring barley is the next most important grain crop
and accounts for about a third of the grain area. The remainder of the grain area is planted with winter
barley, spring wheat, and maize.
1.4   Following the breakdown of the Soviet system  in 1990, agricultural output has declined
consistently. Gross agricultural output fell by 10 percent in 1991, 6 percent in 1992, and 8 percent in
1993. This trend is expected to be continued in 1996 with a 12 percent decline. Many farmers have
resorted to subsistence production since marketing systems for both commercial inputs and products have
virtually collapsed. Trade is increasingly done on a barter basis. The decline in agricultural production
has affected rural cash incomes which in 1994 fell to less than one-third of their value in 1990. The
virtual collapse of the marketing system has resulted in extremely low product prices for sheep and wool,
and low farm profitability. The negative trend in agricultural output and rural cash incomes are due to:
(a) the virtual collapse of the marketing system following the abolition of the state orders system and the
inability to quickly develop alternative mnarketing channels; (b) the inability of traditional state marketing
enterprises to raise operating capital to procure crops as a result of the general credit squeeze in the
economy; (c) the fragmentation and break-up of traditional trade relations; (d) rapid establishment of
private property rights and lags in the provision of contractual support services (land, pastures, water and
tradable goods) and farmn restructuring; (e) the absence of effective support services, including research
and extension, for the emerging private farming sector; and (f) the current crisis in the agricuitural



financial system resulting in a severe credit squeeze. More generally, the recent macro-econornic success
of containing inflation and stabilizing the som have so far failed to stimulate immnediate agricultural
growth because of these factors.
1.5    During the Soviet period, agriculture was based on collective farmns, state farms, and household
plots. There were 195 collective farms and 275 state farms in 1991. In addition to arable land, both
state and collective farms had grazing rights on identified tracts of pasture to which the animals were
moved for summer grazing. Prior to 1990, the household sector owned about one-third of the cattle, one-
fifth of sheep and goats, one-quarter of horses. Recent changes in agricultural policy and structure are
briefly discussed below.
Status of Agricultural Reforms
1.6    A number of fundamental reforms have been initiated to change the policy environment for
agriculture and its structure. These have included: (a) changes in the state procurement system to
liberalize both the pricing and marketing systems, though many former state farms remain closely
attached to processing enterprises; (b) privatization of state-owned enterprises involved in agricultural
marketing and processing; and (c) land reform and farm restructuring to forn the basis for private sector
farming. The Government is committed, in principle, to the implementation of these reforms. At the
same time, efforts to restructure Government institutions, especially the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food, to provide support services to private farmers and to facilitate the sector's transition to a market
economy are yet to be implemented.
1.7    Refonns in the State Procurement System. The traditional marketing system, based on state
orders at fixed prices administered by state enterprises, is in the process of being replaced by market-
based exchange. State orders have been replaced by domestic supply agreements under which producers
contract to deliver fixed quantities to agents of the state at negotiated prices. After fulfillment of such
agreements, producers are free to sell the balance on terms and conditions dictated by a free market.
Whilst this remains an important step towards liberalization, it still falls short of a competitive market
because of the prevalence of monopsonistic state buying agencies. Privatization of these agencies is
critical to the development of competitive markets in the future. Horticultural products, potatoes, and
livestock are free of any obligatory deliveries. Domestic supply agreements are, however, covering a
declining share of commodity trade because state agents lack operating capital to purchase the
commodities from producers. Export taxes, trade margin ceilings, and licenses have been abolished for
all commodities.
1.8    Prices of inputs, like imported fertilizers and agro-chemicals, have been liberalized and are now
based on world market prices, though bilateral aid has produced subsidies for certain inputs. Given that
domestic output prices are still depressed compared to world market prices, especially for wool, input-
output price ratios have risen substantially. This, in combination with the complete absence of
agricultural credit, has negatively affected input use. This, in turn, is contributing to the stagnation or
even decline of the yields of the most important commodities observed over the last couple of years.
1.9    The Government has initiated programs to de-monopolize and privatize state-owned enterprises
involved in agricultural marketing and processing. Nevertheless, the majority of these still retain
significant shareholdings (and informal links) by Government with little corporate autonomy, and
alternative marketing channels are developing very slowly. The generally small size of the Kyrgyz
economy remains an obstacle to the development of competitive marketing channels. Kyrgyz Gemish,



-3 -
involved in the processing of fruits and vegetables, and Kyrgyz Agro-Chemistry, involved in handling
agricultural inputs, are examples of recently created joint stock companies. The Bread Products
Enterprise and Kyrgyz Tamak-Ash, involved in food processing have been demonopolized and are in the
process of being privatized. Besides these traditional mnarketing agencies, a few new companies like
Kyrgyzagropromimpex, Kyrgyz Agro-Invest, and the Commercial Information Agency Kyrgyzstan are
currently trying to establish themselves as intermediaries in the marketing of agricultural products.
1.10   Land Reform and Farm Restructuring. Up to date privatization of state and collective farms
has taken a variety of forms which include the emergence of: (a) private peasant farms (21084); (b)
agricultural production cooperatives (191); (c) associations of peasant farms (123); (d) joint stock
companies (9); and (e) small enterprises (120). Land reform and farm restructuring was initiated in 1991
and explicitly provided opportunities for privatization of state and collective farms on the basis of the
share system commonly used in other FSU countries. However, the initial program was not very
successful. Too much emphasis was placed on the rapid transfer of herds to the household sector without
commensurate transfer, or privatization, of land; too little emphasis was placed on the experience of
potential lessees in agriculture, and on the effect of devolution on the operational efficiency of specialized
units, such as breeding farms. The lack of a transparent farm restructuring policy, including ways of how
to address the increasing amounts of debt owed by state and collective farms, are other impediments
which are still acting against the spirit of the government's policy of privatization. More importantly,
no institutional measures have been introduced to provide private farmers with technical assistance,
extension, and other support services. A Presidential Decree in February 1994, followed by a
Government Directive in March, have rekindled the process of establishing family land holdings and
private farming. These provide for privatization and restructuring of state and collective farms.
Individual landholders would be issued with a 49 year lease, renewable at expiration, while grazing
resources would be leased to individuals or groups for a definite period. Government has also drafted
a Land Code to codify these rights into law. The responsibility to actually implement these decrees has
been shifted from the State Property Fund to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in collaboration with
the local state administrations and rural committees for land and agrarian reform. In recent months,
privatization of state and collective farms has accelerated, giving rise to the establishunent of numerous
private small farms and livestock herds/flocks. By the end of 1995, it is estimated that private farms
accounted for nearly 50 percent of all arable land held by agricultural enterprises. The remainder was
still in the hands of state and collective farms.
1.11  In regard to livestock the Government has announced its intention to privatize all State sheep
breeding farms over the next twelve months, with the government retaining a 25 percent share holding.
At the same time, it is also Government's intention to privatize most of the grazing resources through
leasing arrangements with individual or cooperative farms. In response, sheep farmers are now
evaluating the choice between preserving sheep flock structures in either a co-operative or joint stock
entity or divesting the flocks into smaller sized units.
1.12   The Role of Government. The sector's transition towards a market-economy also requires a
change in the functions and role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and its affiliated (research)
institutes. These continue to be directed at agricultural production, marketing and processing via state
enterprises and collective farms. The diminished role of government in a market economy and the
current fiscal constraints argue in favor of a smaller, service oriented Ministry focusing exclusively on
the legitimate tasks of the public sector. These would include sector policy analysis and formulation;
design and implementation of land reform and farm restructuring programs; support for agricultural
research, extension and training; and market infrastructure development. Current production, processing,



- 4 -
marketing, and input supply functions of the Ministry should be privatized. The oblast and district level
agricultural departments should be redefined as units offering professional advisory services, and
marketing information and should be explicitly excluded from administrative interference in production
or marketing by farmers.
The Sheep Industry
1.13   Structural Trends in the Sheep Industry. This section reviews the structure of the sheep and
wool industry in recent years, focusing on: sheep inventory, breeds, types of sheep holdings, ownership
categories, management systems, feed resource, animal health, sheep and wool productivity, sheep and
mutton output, marketing, and support services. In this review, emphasis is placed on identifying
problems that are constraining or are likely to constrain the performance of the sub-sector.
1.14   Sheep Flock Size and Composition. Total livestock units expressed in sheep equivalents (sheep,
cattle, horses) in the Kyrgyz Republic increased from 7.5 million in 1940 to 12.4 million in 1960 and
19.7 million in 1990. The total number of sheep increased from 2.3 million in 1940 (30 percent share
of total livestock units) to 6.3 million in 1960 (51 percent share) and 10.5 million (53 percent share) in
1990 before reducing to 8.8 million in 1993 and an estimated 7 million by January 1995 (goats account
for about 2.5 percent of these numbers). It is anticipated that the national sheep flock will decline to
between 5 and 6 million by the end of 1995. Relatively high death rates (+ 10 percent/year), low
lambing rates (86 percent), and high off-take rates propelled by high consumption of sheep meat will
jointly lead to further decline in the flock. This will continue until prices of mutton and wool rise
sufficiently to create the incentives for flock rebuilding. The development of a new and efficient lamb
and wool marketing system will be a prerequisite for this. The proposed project would support the
development of such a marketing system.
1.15   Sheep Breeds.  All three sheep breeds in the country are classified as wool breeds. These
consist of the Kyrgyz Fine Wool breed (91 percent of the flock), the Tian Shan breed (7 percent), and
the Alai semi-coarse wool breed (2 percent). These breeds have adapted well to the agro-ecological
environment for which they were bred. The fine wool breed were based almost exclusively on state and
collective farms where rigid breeding and selection procedures were maintained. This is, however,
rapidly breaking down with the privatization of state and collective farms, accompanied by distribution
of sheep to private owners who hold them in smaller flocks. The breeds were developed at state sheep
breeding plants some years ago by using the local sheep as a base and initially crossing with imported
breeds. This crossbreeding was followed by continued selection to improve specific performance traits
and finally a classification or registration scheme was evolved to identify elite and less superior sheep.
Semen from superior rams, through artificial insemination (Al), has been the predominant method of
mating. However, private sheep owners are now relying more on natural mating methods because of the
high fee charged for AI service relative to the low profitability of sheep and wool production. This shift
away from Al by most private producers has the risk of spreading some diseases by unhealthy rams. In
addition, breeding is unregulated both in respect of strain and breed and this is likely to lead to decreasing
wool quality and yield. With the decline of the AI service, the control of indiscriminate breeding of
sheep is necessary. This could be done through the introduction of certification and registration of rams
(flock book registration) via producers' associations by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF).
Owing to the virtual collapse of the wool marketing system in the country, contrasted by a relatively
strong local demand for mutton, many private sheep breeders are reported to prefer using rams of a meat
breed, particularly the Altai. This puts the wool breeding work of several years at risk, though this is
likely to be a transitional phenomenon.  Nevertheless, it poses a strategic dilemma in the future



- 5 -
development of the industry: should investment in the industry be geared toward the production of lamb
production or maintenance and expansion of the wool genotypes? Ultimately, the choice between these
two options will be made by the farmer. Meanwhile, it is important that Government control breeding
through licensing of rams and providing appropriate breeding stock to farmers for both purposes.
Consequently, the elite flocks and superior genotypes that have been developed over the years for both
purposes should be maintained. The proposed project would support the above measures and restore the
relative profitability of wool production, particularly for export.
1.16   Types of Sheep Holdings. Prior to 1991, sheep breeding and production was mainly organized
around state and collective farms, including state sheep breeding plants and farms. The former have been
critical in developing superior sheep stocks for distribution to state and collective farms. With the
privatization of these state plants and farms, new types of livestock farming enterprises have emerged.
The situation is, however, not entirely clear since many state enterprises have been nominally privatized
without undergoing real changes in essence or structure. Moreover, the process of privatization and farm
restructuring is still going on. In addition to the well known state and collective farns that are within
the public sector, there are currently four types of sheep farming within the private sector. Following
the Soviet legacy, most of these farms are mixed (i.e., they produce both livestock and crops). They
consist of: (a) Family Farm, averaging 10 hectares with rights to natural grazing, is rented and operated
by one family. The head of the family makes most of the management decisions in consultation with the
family. Typically, the lease on the farm is registered and arises from the dissolution of a state or
collective farm. The independence of this type of farm is often limited by collective management of farm
machinery, irrigation water, and natural grazing resource; (b) Peasant Livestock Owner is often a
member of a state or collective farm that has decided to restructure by privatizing the ownership of
livestock (especially sheep), without distributing arable land. He receives livestock which he maintains
on common natural pastures (formerly belonging to the state or collective farm), on his household plot,
and purchased feed. Subject to the same management decision constraints faced by the family farm
holder, he makes management decisions in respect of his livestock. On the other hand, he continues to
be a mere laborer as far as crop production is concemed; (c) Production Cooperative Farm arises when
a small number (up to 10) of workers of a dissolving state or collective farm pool their land and livestock
shares to form a single farm unit under joint management, usually led by one dominant individual. The
unit may operate as a joint stock company farm. The sheep are managed jointly and share the same
management decision constraints as other types of famis; and (d) Independent Cooperative Farm derives
from a dissolution of a state or collective farm, where the majority of workers decide to continue
operating the farm enterprise together under, quite often, the same management. The farm may operate
as a joint stock farm enterprise. This fann differs from its predecessor in that it is no longer subject to
state or oblast administration orders or directives in its management decision making and has discretion
in the use of its operating surplus. Sheep continue to be managed jointly on the farm's leased natural
pasture, fodder, and purchased feed. At the end of 1994, it was estimated that the national sheep flock
was distributed as follows among the various types of farms: public sector farms (46 percent),
independent cooperative farms (11 percent), and small-scale private farms (43 percent). Small-scale
private farms consist of family farm, peasant livestock owners, and production cooperative farms. The
share of small-scale private farms is highest in the major sheep producing regions (ranging between 54
percent in Issyk-Kul and 44 percent in Osh), except in Naryn (37 percent). The share of small-scale
private farms in the national sheep flock is increasing rapidly under the ongoing land reform and farm
restructuring program of the Govermment. The primary target group of the proposed project would be
all sheep farms and producers in the private sector. State and collective farms that are legacies of the
Soviet system would not be eligible for participation in the proposed project, except those designated for
sheep breeding and research activities under the project.



1.17   Private Farmers' Associations. The transition of the sheep industry would greatly benefit from
the development of a strong network of farmers' associations or groups. These associations are being
established under the EU (TACIS) Livestock Project, mainly in Talas and Naryn regions, as multi-
purpose service cooperatives. They differ from the production cooperatives in that they provide services
to private farms emerging from the dissolution of state or collective farms. Usually, the ex-workers of
a state or collective farm retain the former management to run the service association for them, while
they run their private farms independently. The services provided include: input supply (especially fuel
and oil), marketing of produce (mainly through barter of produce for inputs), machinery services, credit,
water regulation, and common pasture management regulation. Most of these associations are affiliated
to Dyikanardo, a national apex farmers' association, through which the Government channeled
concessional credit to farmers in 1994. Dyikanardo has, however, transformed itself into a political
movement and participated in the 1995 general elections. Nevertheless, there is need to strengthen the
grassroots associations, through technical and financial assistance, to enable them to provide support
services to members, which, in addition to the above activities, should include herd/flock book
registration and extension service. The proposed project would support the establishment of sheep
farmers' associations which may eventually become multi-purpose to cover activities related to other
livestock and crops.
1.18   Sheep Management System. The annual cycle of sheep management is similar throughout the
year, with seasonal variations dictated by altitude and the severity of winter. Lambs are born during
February-March, coinciding with the shearing period. During this period, winter feeding is predominant
until it is succeeded by spring grazing in low lands or foothills as snow disappears in May. As spring
progresses into summer, the flocks are moved progressively to graze on high altitude pastures (up to 3500
m). The shepherds and their families accompany them. With the approach of winter, the flocks descend
to lower fall pastures in September and October. They also graze the stubble and forage crops at this
time, which flushes the ewes in preparation for service. During winter (November-February), sheep are
housed in "kashara" (sheds). Winter feed comprises hay, straw, and ground barley.
1.19   Animal Health. During the Soviet regime, the control of diseases was relatively easy. Since
flocks are now in private hands and they graze freely over extensive areas, some disease outbreaks are
imminent, particularly brucellosis. The incidence of brucellosis in sheep increased from 1 percent in
1992 to 1.8 percent in 1993. A brucellosis eradication program has been started, but it suffers from lack
of resources and staff. In addition, it was designed for prior privatization situation, during which the
majority of sheep were concentrated in state and collective farms. Today, some private sheep owners
are not cooperating in diagnostic services provided by the state. In the absence of compensation for sheep
slaughtered or disposed of after testing positive, farmers have little incentive to cooperate. Disease
control should be made more effective by adopting a strategy of improved diagnosis, vaccine
development, and testing for brucellosis in coordination with other countries in the region. In addition
the participation of private veterinary practitioners should be encouraged and supported. Private farmers
should be required, through their farmers' organizations, to participate in public campaigns of disease
control. Internal and external parasites are also a major source of loss.
1.20   Sheep and Wool Productivity and Production.  Average productivity in sheep and wool has
consistently declined since 1990. The average body weight of sheep has dropped from 36 to 31 kg over
the period. The average greasy fleece yield per sheep declined from 3.8 to 3.7 kg over the same period.
Wool yields have declined more in the state and collective farms, dropping from an average of 3.2 to 2.9
kg per sheep over the same period. The decline in wool yield is continuing and both wool yield and
quality are being adversely affected by inadequate winter feeding. The dilution of the fine wool



- 7 -
genotype, resulting from the decline in sheep breeding control, is expected to progressively reduce the
yields and quality of wool. In addition, private farmers have a preference for breeding for bigger
carcasses, resulting in lower wool yield. Total production of mutton has increased from 77,000 tons
(dressed weight) in 1990 to 82,000 tons in 1993, reflecting an increasing off-take rate via increased
slaughter. This is continuing and is likely to reduce the size of the flock further. On the contrary, the
production of wool has fallen from 39,000 tons (greasy weight) in 1990 to 25,000 tons in 1993.
Declining wool yields suggest that total wool production will continue to fall.
1.21   Despite the fall in production, wool remains an important product for the Kyrgyz economy, with
exports of wool and wool products constituting the largest source of foreign earnings. In 1994 wool
production was equivalent to about 20,700 ton (greasy weight), valued domestically at 134 million som
(US$12.7 million). At world prices, and in a competitive marketing environment, the value of Kyrgyz
wool production could be doubled. The Kyrgyz Republic accounts for about 10 percent of wool
production and trade in the Former Soviet Union and 1 percent of global wool production. The sub-
sector is in the fore-front of privatization efforts affecting the agricultural sector.
1.22   Livestock Institutions. The principal institutions servicing the livestock sub-sector are the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) and its affiliated institutes. MAF has two departments serving
the sub-sector: the Department of Livestock Management and Development (DLMD) and Department of
Veterinary Services (DVS). The former is responsible for overseeing sound animnal breeding, husbandry
and nutrition practices in state and collective farms, including research institutes. DLMD has 17
professional staff in three sections each dealing with cattle and dairy breeding, sheep breeding, and
pedigree inspection. The latter two sections would be involved in the implementation of the proposed
project. The Livestock Institute (LI) has two departments each for animal breeding and research. The
LI has been recently reorganized into two corporate entities: "Asyl-Mal" and "Kerneej". The "Asyl-
Mal", operated as a public joint stock company, maintains 16 livestock breeding farms which are
responsible for progeny recording and selection of sires for artificial insemination (AT). It has 7 sheep
breeding farms, of which 5 farms are for fine wool breeds, and 2 farms for Tian Shan and Alai breed.
These farms are responsible for storage and distribution of semen and for the supply of improved
breeding stocks. The "Kerneej" carries out livestock research and is wholly state-owned. It is engaged
in several research programs, including breeding improvement and selection, biotechnology, genetics,
forage utilization, and mechanization of livestock production. The Scientific Industrial Enterprise (SIE)
formally known as the Pasture Institute is responsible for research in both natural pastures and cultivated
forage production. All breeding and research institutes are operating on shoe-string budgets and have
substantially curtailed their programn activities. Staff attrition has been considerable with the recent
exodus of non-Kyrgyz ethnic residents. Neither MAF nor its institutes are currently organized to or
capable of providing support services to the emerging private fanning sector. All of them are still
organized to issue directives, control the supply of inputs, and direct marketing and processing. MAF
and its institutes are being reorganized to become capable of providing support services to private farms
and implementing the land and agrarian reforms. The proposed project would initiate the reorganization
of MAF's departments and institutes dealing with livestock development. This would be done in
compliance with the proposed reorganization of MAF that will be implemented under the proposed
Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP).
1.23   Potential of the Industry. Despite the recent decline in sheep and wool productivity and the
depressed price of Kyrgyz wool compared to world market levels, there exists significant potential to
increase farm profitability in the sub-sector. Given the country's grazing resource, harsh climatic
environmnent, and long distance from potential international markets, this potential lies in wool and lamb
production rather than mutton production.  There are significant opportunities to increase wool



- 8 -
productivity and improve its quality to fetch price premiums on the international market. Potential wool
productivity gains (by increasing greasy wool yields from the 3.5 kg/sheep average over the last 5 years)
are estimated at 30 percent, while price increases of Kyrgyz wool could exceed 100 percent. Further
sources of increased productivity exist in the form of higher lambing percentages, lower death rates and
increased clean wool yields. The Kyrgyz wool industry has important natural advantages in its close
proximity to major markets in Russia and China, with potential clients in Eastern Europe. However,
much of this advantage is dissipated by inefficient production, handling, grading, and lack of marketing
regulations of international standard. It also has the capacity to produce high quality wool and, most
importantly, it has low labor costs. The wool processing industry is considered to have significant
potential in increasing both capacity utilization rates and capacity. In this connection, the country has
the potential to rival China which is emerging as a major finishing center for wool products for Japanese
and Korean textile firms because of its low labor costs. The country has also good potential to produce
lamb for the export to the Arabian Gulf States and to compete with the traditional lamb suppliers
(Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and Argentina) to the market. This potential has been neglected
in the past because the sheep industry's policy focus during the Soviet regime was to produce wool. The
proposed project would seek to make maximum use of this potential and to make the entire sheep industry
export-oriented. However, to realize this potential, specific problems faced by the sheep and wool sub-
sector, including insufficient pasture resource management, poor sheep husbandry practices, and
inefficient wool marketing and quality control system have to be resolved. The proposed project has been
designed to address these problems. In order to respond to these problems through market solutions, the
pivotal role of the private sector in managing the subsector's transition has been underscored in the
proposed project. However, the development of the private sector in the subsector would require: (a)
the establishment of adequate support services, including extension and credit; (b) establishment of wool
marketing regulations, based on international standards, to enhance wool quality control and
marketability; and (c) promotion of formation of grassroots farmers organizations, operating on self-help
and self-accountability, by the state to spearhead the subsector's response to continually changing market
requirements.
1.24   Pasture Resources. The pasture area of approximately 8.8 million hectares is supplemented by
forage areas of some 600,000 hectares (of which 400,000 hectares is irrigated alfalfa and other legumes).
In this respect, the Kyrgyz Republic appears to have a considerable grazing resource, suggesting
comparative advantage in extensive livestock production. However, the past policy that focused solely
at increasing livestock numbers has resulted in considerable degradation of the resource. Years of
overgrazing have reduced the productivity of summer, spring/fall, and winter pastures over the past 30
years, from 639 to 414 kg/ha, 465 to 301 kg/ha, and 297 to 93 kg/ha respectively. As a result of
degradation of winter pastures and a continued reliance on wool production from weathers (male
castrates) kept over winter, the Kyrgyz Republic has become reliant on relatively high-cost supplemental
feeding for four to five months of the year. In 1987, at the peak of the livestock herd and of feed
consumption, the amount of grain used for feed was approximately twice that used for food. This was
unsustainable and feed imports have virtually disappeared, forcing producers to reduce considerably their
flock sizes.
1.25   Sheep graze natural pastures during March-October. Winter pastures supplement winter rations
based on straw, lucerne/saifoin hay, silage, and barley. These winter feeds are, however, rarely
sufficient and availability of winter grazing is determined by climate, weather, and pasture condition
(which is generally overgrazed and poor).



- 9 -
1.26   To reduce the problem of overgrazing a number of actions have been done or are required in
future. Already the sheep flock size has been reduced substantially to the current estimate of 7 million.
To allow for a sustainable utilization of current pasture resources, sheep flock numbers should be
maintained at the current level. This requires a change in the grazing management and stocking rate by
stopping to equate 100 percent utilization of feed on offer with maximum efficiency and profitability.
Experience elsewhere in the world (e.g., Australia) suggests that maximum profit and maximum
sustainability of pastures almost always occur when less than 50 percent of the total pasture on offer is
utilized. The reduction in sheep flock size is being accompanied by a change in the flock structure.
First, the ongoing privatization of state and collective farms has considerably reduced the flock sizes.
Second, reduced numbers of weathers during winter would save scarce winter pastures and reduce the
demand for imported feed. There should be increased emphasis on younger sheep production from more
abundant summer pastures. The average yield of both hay meadows and irrigated alfalfa is very low.
This could be increased by the introduction of appropriate high altitude-adapted legumes in hay meadows
and by the improvement of management and introduction of new varieties in irrigated alfalfa fields.
These practices need to be complemented by more efficient use of concentrate feeds in winter.
1.27   Despite these shifts towards a sustainable level of sheep production, the current uncertainties
surrounding property rights of agricultural land and grazing resources have created a situation in which
producers may seek security in livestock numbers rather than land. Clearly defined and accepted property
and grazing rights, supported by an effective pasture monitoring system taking into consideration land
use capabilities, would facilitate stabilization of the flock size at optimal levels. Similarly, increases in
the use of yield-enhancing inputs are necessary to improve the productivity of fodder crops. But this,
in turn, depends on reforms to improve the incentive structure, particularly corrections to the distorted
input-output price ratios.                                  ,
1.28   Sheep and Wool Processing and Marketing.   The Kyrgyz Republic accounts for about 10
percent of wool production in the Former Soviet Union and 1 percent of world wool production. Over
75 percent of wool produced in the Kyrgyz Republic is classified as "fine wool" with a fine fiber diameter
of less than 25 micron. The main source of this fine wool is the Kyrgyzstaia Fine-wool breed, a
derivative of the Australian Merino. In general, however, the wool classified as "fine wool" in the
Kyrgyz Republic would be classified as medium to strong in Australia.
1.29  In the past, over 95 percent of greasy wool has been processed further into scoured wool in the
Kyrgyz Republic and over 50 percent of scoured wool processed further into yarn, cloth and garments,
most of which is exported to other members of the FSU. The main importers of scoured wool are
Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakstan, Azerbaijan and Lithuania. More recently, however, an increased
amount of greasy wool is being consigned directly to China, Russia and Turkey. The major deficiencies
in the overall production, marketing and processing chain are: (a) lack of effective greasy wool marketing
infrastructure, to carry out wool testing, wool selling, and information and communication tasks; (b)
historical and continuing bias against research into wool marketing and processing problems and
opportunities; (c) poor control of quality in classing, preparation of wool for sale, handling and storage;
(d) inefficient local processing industry; and (e) poor understanding of the main profit variables at the
farm level. The underlying causes for these deficiencies include: (a) government's ownership of
production and processing facilities which reduced the need for marketing facilities and support services
at the greasy wool level; (b) the centralized concentration of wool research in Russia; and (c) extreme
dependence of Kyrgyz wool processors on traditional markets in the FSU where absence of price
premiums for high quality wool failed to provide the incentives to fully exploit the economic benefits
associated with high quality wool production.



- 10 -
1.30   As a result of these imperfections, greasy wool prices are on average at least US$1.00 per kg
(clean basis) lower than world market prices. Given current production levels this translates to a gross
loss in farm income of about US$10.8 million. The discounts tend to be higher for better quality wool
(in excess of US$2 per kg) and lower for poor quality wool. At the local level there is little knowledge
of world market prices for different types of wool. The inefficiencies in the local processing industry
contribute further to the low price of Kyrgyz wool as their capacity to pay world market prices for greasy
wool has been eroded through high processing costs.
1.31   Slaughter and veterinary controls are poor and limit the acceptability of mutton and live animal
exports in international markets. Nevertheless, during 1993-94, exports of chilled mutton carcasses were
made to the Middle East. There are no formal live animal markets in the country. However, sheep are
offered fo. sale in markets in the southern parts of the country. Prospects for lamb exports to the Middle
East appear quite favorable, provided production and market efficiency in the Kyrgyz sheep industry can
be initiated and sustained. These would be introduced under the proposed project. Lamb production
efficiency would be considerably improved (tables 6.1a - 6.1d) and a new lamb marketing system for
exports to the Middle East would be established under the proposed project. Accordingly, lamb
production for export would become the mainstay of the country's sheep industry in terms of foreign
exchange earnings (table 6.1). Existing lamb prices in the Middle East market are considerably higher
than those assumed for the calculation of the project's economic rate of return (table 6.1). For example,
live weight p.ices fcr lamb averaged US$1.50 per kilo in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States during 1995.
This would imply a marketing margin of $0.70 per kilo as the current domestic farmgate price is $0.80
per kilo.
1.32   To fully exploit the potential of the wool industry, the development of an internationally
competitive wool marketing infrastructure, controlled and owned by the private producers, is of
paramount importance. This development would include: (a) enhancement of wool quality control with
the aim of achieving more differentiated wool types for high price premium segments of the market; (b)
establishment of a greasy wool testing system, initially contracted to foreign laboratories, a greasy wool
marketing center and an associated information system; and (c) improvement of the classification and
grading of greasy wool at village and regional wool stores. The Kyrgyz wool processing sector is also
an important source of demand for greasy wool produced in the country. Unless the efficiency of the
local scouring industry is significantly improved, this will remain an important constraint on greasy wool
prices and international buyers will continue shipping greasy wool to lower cost scouring locations. This
project is not addressing the problems of the wool processing sector, which is currently undergoing
privatization and restructuring under the Government program for economic reform, supported by other
Bank operations.
1.33   Support Services.  In addition to the development of marketing infrastructure, the success of
privatization in mobilizing private resources depends critically, on the concomitant development of
suitable support services to the private sector. The latter includes both extension services and a veterinary
regulatory framework (vector control, veterinary surveillance, quarantine etc.). At present, there is little
evidence for dissemination of technical/managerial information from government to all types of sheep-
owners. There is a need for sheep producers, many of whom are new managers/sole operators, to
possess all available information that will assist in improving productivity, and introducing new
technologies. In this process, there is a need to move away from the current production-driven focus of
the state towards increased provision of support services to private farmers.



- 11 -
II. BANK LENDING EXPERENCE AND SECTOR STRATEGY
Bank's Lending Strategy for Agriculture
2.1    The Bank, through an Agricultural Sector Review (1994), is helping the Government in its design
of structural and sectoral reforms and the identification of investment opportunities to facilitate the
transition to a market economy in the agricultural sector. The review identified five areas for policy
reform: demonopolization and privatization of state agribusiness enterprises; transfer of agricultural land
and farm assets to provide ownership; adoption of appropriate pricing and marketing structure; a
diminished and supporting role for the state in agriculture; and development of an appropriate rural
financial system to serve private farming and rural enterprises. These recommendations were endorsed
by a Bank/Government sponsored Agricultural Conference held in November 1994. Within the context
of structural reforms, agriculture is considered vital for contributing to the Governmnent's broad
objectives, which include sustainable economic growth, poverty reduction, and employment creation.
2.2    The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy as discussed by the Board
of Directors during the presentation of the Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
(APEAC) on June 28, 1995. To achieve the CAS objectives, Bank Group financial and technical
assistance will be selectively focused on four areas: continued adjustment-lending; agricultural/natural
resource management; energy; and social sectors. Growth recovery in the agricultural sector is a critical
element of IDA's assistance program for growth and poverty reduction. Within the CAS framework,
the Bank's assistance strategy for the sector consists of policy-based lending operations in support of
structural reforms and investment lending operations in support of sectoral investments. Operations in
support of structural reforms, which are currently under implementation or preparation, and have
relevance for the agricultural sector include: (a) the TA component of the Rehabilitation Credit, which
supports the development and implementation of policy change and privatization of agro-enterprises; (b)
the recently approved Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC), which seeks to
liberalize trade policies and the price system; and to improve the regulatory framnework for private sector
development; (c) the Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC) aims at
deepening the market and pricing liberalization in agriculture and the development of competitive markets
through privatization and private sector development; and (d) the availability of an Institutional
Development Fund (IDF) grant to facilitate the implementation of Government's Land Reform and Farm
Restructuring efforts. Building on the policy framework established under these operations, the proposed
project would contribute to the emergence of an internationally comnpetitive sheep industry, increase
incomes of sheep producers, generate increased foreign exchange earnings, and foster sustainable
management of the country's pasture resources.
2.3    The Bank's sector work has identified a number of investment priorities for the agricultural
sector. These include: (a) the provision of support services to private and restructured farms consisting
of technical advisory services, market information, land registration and titling services; (b) agricultural
research to produce new technologies (mainly through adaptation) in well prioritized areas; (c) animal
production and health to strengthen public support services to private livestock producers; (d) irrigation
rehabilitation to provide for the management and maintenance of water within private farms and to
finance maintenance and operations of the existing irrigation system; (e) rural roads rehabilitation to
provide for the management and maintenance of the existing network of rural roads; and (f) restructuring
and improvement of the rural financial system.



- 12 -
2.4    Besides dealing with agricultural policies under the APEAC, the Bank has decided to initially
focus on three investment operations which include the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP), a
Rural Finance Project and the Sheep Development Project (SDP). The ASSP aims at the establishment
of support services for the emerging private sector, which are considered crucial for the success of
privatization efforts in the sector. In this process it will restructure the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
to reflect its proper role and functions in a market economy context. The Rural Finance Project will
support the development and implementation of a durable system of financing farm and other rural
activities. The SDP focuses on the sheep sub-sector because of its current importance, its high potential
for future growth in terms of both productivity and profitability, its impact on poverty alleviation, and
the relatively high proportion of private sector production. The Bank's involvement in donor coordination
efforts is expected to generate interest from other donor agencies to include some of the above mentioned
investment priorities in their support programs.
2.5    The proposed Sheep Development Project is the first investment lending operation in support of
reforms in an important agricultural sub-sector, with substantial potential and a leading role in the
implementation of privatization efforts. The sheep sector is important because of the large sheep herd
and the potential in the sector for increasing production and exports of meat and wool and raising the
income of low income farmers. Based on findings of the Agricultural Sector Review, which was
completed in July 1994, it was concluded that the sub-sector faces serious problems of declining sheep
and wool productivity and low prices of Kyrgyz wool compared to world market levels which are
attributed to a wide range of factors including inadequate sheep husbandry practices and disease control,
insufficient pasture resource management, existing constraints in wool marketing, and the absence of
effective support services to the emerging private farming sector. The project will help create the
research and extension institutions and private farmers' organizations necessary for the development of
an efficient, competitive and financially self-sustainable sheep industry.  More specifically, these
institutional reforms and critical investments include: (a) the formation of grassroots farmers'
organizations; (b) creation of lamb and wool marketing infrastructure; (c) establishment of support
services for sheep and wool farmers; and (d) strengthening of sheep research and development.
Grassroots organization would be critical in enabling farmers to respond appropriately to the rapidly
changing market signals as the process of economic reforms and liberalization takes root.
Bank's Experience and Lessons
2.6    The Bank Group has no previous involvement in the agricultural sector in the Kyrgyz Republic.
However, limited experience with the ongoing Economic Rehabilitation Credit indicates that inadequate
implementation capacity is a very serious issue. Recent evaluations of livestock projects financed by the
Bank show an improving success rate against a deteriorating success rate for agriculture in general.
Critical ingredients having a positive effect on project success include: (a) absence of internal price
controls; (b) clear definition of the role of the public and private sector, with, wherever possible,
increased involvement of the private sector; (c) increased attention towards livestock-environment
interactions; (d) acknowledgement of the positive role of national livestock research on livestock
productivity; and (e) focus on private family farm development instead of support to public and semi-
public livestock production and processing. These factors have been incorporated in the design of the
SDP in various ways. Nevertheless, weak implementation capacity in the public sector will be critical
to the success of the proposed project. The situation in the Kyrgyz Republic is made worse by the fact
that the development of private farming depends, at least initially, on Government support. However,
the Government itself needs help, in the form of technical assistance, to be able to assist the development
of private farming. The proposed project recognizes this unpleasant reality.



- 13 -
2.7    Given the limited local project implementation capacity and experience in the FSU and Eastem
European countries, effective project implementation requires reliance on extensive technical assistance.
Early Bank projects, such as the Economic Rehabilitation Project, which was essentially a Technical
Assistance operation, have succeeded in using TA in implementation, recruitment of consultants,
establishment of termis of reference, and other procedures which increase the sense of local ownership
of the project. These lessons have been incorporated in the proposed project through: (a) the provision
to set-up a Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which will have a broad
mandate conceming project implementation issues; and (b) the implementation of several project
components shall be sub-contracted by the PIU to various public and private sector agencies, including
NGOs.
Project Design Options
2.8   Several project design options were initially considered.  These included: (a) leaving the
marketing system for lamb and wool in Govermment hands; (b) establishing a sophisticated wool testing
facility as part of the producer-managed marketing system; (c) a sheep industry that is managed and
controlled by producers with a credit component; and (d) a sheep industry that is managed and controlled
by private producers with some support services being initially provided by the Government, but which
would eventually be assumed by the industry. These options were individually evaluated and the last
option was finally selected as the most cost-effective and appropriate strategy for achieving the project
objectives.



- 14 -
III. TIE PROJECT
Objectives and Brief Description
3.1    Project Objectives. The objectives of the proposed Project are to: (a) increase the profitability
and efficiency of sheep and wool farming; (b) privatize the provision of several services to farmers,
including wool marketing and veterinary services; and (c) improve the management and conservation of
natural grazing resources by farmers. To achieve these objectives, the project would focus on: (i)
organizing sheep and wool farmers into farmers' associations or groups through which essential services
can be channeled; (ii) developing a competitive marketing structure with incentives for production of
quality lambs and wool for premium prices; (iii) increasing sheep and wool productivity through
establishing training and advisory services for private farmers and supporting selected breeding activities;
and (iv) developing and disseminating sustainable pasture management techniques among sheep producers.
These objectives have been translated into monitorable performance indicators (Annex D). These are
market-based strategies that would require intensive transfer of "technical know how" and market-oriented
management skills to the Kyrgyz technical experts and sheep producers. In this sense, the project is
extremely technology transfer intensive.
3.2    Brief Project Description. The proposed project consists of three main components. These are:
(a) Sheep Private Enterprise Development (SPED); (b) Development of Livestock Support Services
(DLSS); and (c) Sheep Breeding Research Support (SBRS).
Detailed Project Features
3.3    Sheep Private Enterprise Development (SPED).  The specific objectives of SPED are: (a) to
establish several sheep producers' groups or associations (SPGAs) at village level which would eventually
affiliate themselves to regional sheep breeders associations (RSBAs) and a national Kyrgyz Sheep
Breeders Association (KSBA); and (b) to establish a new marketing system for lamb and greasy wool with
incentives for production of quality products. The development of SPGAs, new marketing system, and
agricultural training and advisory services are closely interlinked and critical to the development of a
market-based sheep industry in the country.
3.4   Sheep Producers' Groups/Associations (SPGAs). The transition from a command system
towards a market economy requires the transfer of responsibilities from the state to individual groups of
the society. The state can no longer provide secure employment in rural areas where state farms and
rural enterprises are collapsing one after another. The transfer of responsibility cannot be done by
decree, but by supporting interested groups to prepare them to shoulder this responsibility. After
independence several local NGOs emerged from former state organizations to pursue social and ecological
objectives, but most of them have not completely succeeded to free themselves from the legacy of state
influence. Two new national farmers' associations with economic objectives have been established, but
they have tended to confuse economic with political pursuits. Grassroots farmers' associations or groups
would play an important role by taking over part of the those tasks the state can no longer fulfill. Such
associations or groups, based on self-help and self-accountability principles, would constitute a departure
from the "top down" and centralized decision-making approaches of the command system. With regard
to sheep producers, the project would support the promotion of SPGAs to initially address four critical
issues in sheep production and marketing: (i) to arrest the drift toward unregulated sheep breeding among
small private producers through the introduction of certification and registration of rams (flock book



- 15 -
registration); (ii) to provide small private producers with technical and managerial know how (to be
provided in close cooperation with ATAS and other extension service programs); (iii) to facilitate the
marketing of sheep products, including lamb, wool, and skins, by small private producers; and (iv) to
manage common pastures on a sustainable basis.
3.5   The SPGAs would be village-based and, in accordance with Kyrgyz traditions, organized around
a clan or extended family. Their members would be independent farmers or groups of independent
farmers registered with the local State Statistics Office. The SPGAs, once established, would be
registered with the State Statistics Office as societies with limited liability. They would have "open
membership" with free entry and exit rights. SPGAs would be managed and operated by members on
cooperative principles. Project support to groups would be demand-driven, namely only producers who
are willing and able to participate in the designated group activities would benefit from the support
provided under this sub-component. The project would provide technical, organizational, managerial and
financial support to the groups or associations to enable them to overcome the constraints they are facing.
About 150-200 groups/associations, averaging 30-50 members (50-100 households) and raising 1.5-2.0
million sheep, are expected to be established during the life of the project. These groups or associations
would be the focus for improvements in regulating sheep breeding, animal husbandry, wool shearing,
sorting and marketing, and sustainable management of common pastures. These tasks would be
implemented by the SPGAs with technical support provided by staff ATAS, KSBA/RSBA, and the
Veterinary Department.
3.6   The privatization of sheep ownership has disrupted the breeding and selection program which was
exclusively based on the state and collective farm system and artificial insemination. Private sheep
owners are now relying more on natural mating methods (using rams). This has the risk of spreading
some diseases by unhealthy rams. In addition breeding by private farmers is increasingly becoming
unregulated both in respect of strain and breed, affecting the quality and yield of wool. SPGAs would
be instrumental in regulating sheep breeding at the farm level. This would be done through the
introduction of licensing and registration of rams held by individual farmers by each SPGA with the
assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. For this purpose, each SPGA would maintain a
pedigree or breed book in which each licensed ram of each member would be registered. All such rams
would be periodically checked and certified by the Department of Veterinary Services and those found
unfit would be eliminated or castrated. Similarly, the introduction of new genetic material (semen) under
the project would be done under the auspices of the SPGAs. The appropriate semen would be procured,
on the basis of members' requirements and ATAS advice, by the SPGA for distribution or sale to its
individual members. The decision whether to distribute free of charge or sell the semen would be made
by the SPGAs, depending on their financial situation. Some SPGAs may choose to provide Al services
to their members.
3.7   The SPGAs would also function as grazing associations responsible for managing the utilization
of common pastures. Sustainable management of common natural pastures would be complex and would
require the SPGAs to limit individual flock sizes and stocking rates, promote increased production and
use of fodder by individual farmers, foster change in individual flock structure (by reducing the number
of weathers during winter to save scarce winter pastures and emphasizing younger sheep production from
more abundant summer pastures by individual farmers). These practices would be enforced by the
SPGAs. This would only be practical if leaseholds or grazing rights for pastures are issued to the SPGAs
rather than to individual members or farmers. Granting grazing rights to the SPGAs or grazing
associations would be consistent with both Kyrgyz traditions and the practice under the state farm system.
It would also create a situation in which members of an SPGA or grazing association would jointly seek



- 16 -
security in the grazing resource (land) rather than in sheep numbers. During negotiations, it was agreed
that the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that sheep producers 'associations shall be
granted, on a leasing basis, grazing rights without prejudice to other users of pastures, whether
individually or collectively organized.
3.8   Implementation of the producers' groups/associations sub-component would be contracted out by
the PIU to an international NGO or consulting firm with the requisite experience and capability. It was
agreed during negotiations that the Borrower shall cause the PIU Manager to manage the Project
execution activities in accordance with the PIU Management Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
which shall include, inter gjjg, provisions in respect of staffing of the PIU with qualified individuals in
sufficient number, and the management responsibilities to be carried out in accordance with a project
operational manual; such manual to be attached to the PIU Management Agreement and to constitute an
integral part thereof. The NGO/consultant would develop a rolling program with annual work plans
phased in to cover all districts with significant sheep and wool production over the implementation period.
These plans would include: (i) implementation details and expenditures for activities during the current
year; (ii) implementation plan and budget for activities in the following year; and (iii) a training program
for members of the group.
3.9    Regional Sheep Breeders Associations (RSBA). These associations would be established by the
local independent producers' groups/associations to facilitate, initially, the marketing of lamb and wool.
SPGAs domicile in any RSBA's catchment area would not be obligated to affiliate. About four or five
RSBAs, each with average membership of 40-50 groups/associations be established during the project life.
The RSBA would be instrumental in the operation of the proposed regional wool stores where much of
the classifying, baling, and wool sampling for testing would take place. They would also assist in
organizing regional markets or auctions for lambs where exporters and domestic buyers would participate.
The project would initially support the formation of these associations through technical assistance to be
provided by selected NGO/consultant. The NGO/consultant would provide advice to the associations in
respect of organization, management, legal, registration and marketing. RSBAs would be supported by
the project on demand and commercial viability basis. Like the SPGAs, they would be registered as
societies with limited liability. The project would also equip the selected regional wool stores with the
requisite wool baling and sampling equipment.
3.10   The implementing NGO/consultant, together with the ATAS and RSBAs, would identify and
select the location of wool stores and lamb auctions in the major wool producing regions and, using local
engineering consultants, assess the cost of the physical improvements needed in each store or auction.
Most of the stores belong to either oblast administrations or the State Procurement Agency. Some oblast
administrations have expressed their willingness to donate such facilities to local producers associations.
Before rehabilitation of the stores begins, they would be turned over or leased to the newly established
RSBAs with responsibility for maintenance. The project would provide for the rehabilitation of public
wool stores through local competitive bidding. Rehabilitated public wool stores would be leased to
associations at rental fees that reflect full cost recovery of the cost of rehabilitation within five years.
Rehabilitation of private wool stores would not be provided under the project. The cost of rehabilitating
wool stores donated to associations by oblast administration would be fully met by the associations
themselves.
3.11   The project would also provide for employment of regional wool store managers, wool graders,
sorters and support staff on a grant basis in the first year of operation and full cost recovery basis in
subsequent years. Short-term consultants to train local staff and sheep producers in shearing, grading,



- 17 -
and sorting through demonstrations at the local wool store and farm level would be provided on a grant
basis.
3.12   Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association (KSBA). This association would be founded by the local
SPGAs and RSBAs at a national level. SPGAs that are not affiliated to any RSBA would be permitted
to acquire direct membership in KSBA. All RSBAs are expected to be affiliated to the KSBA. KSBA,
like its affiliates, would have "open membership". It would be incorporated as a society with limited
liability. KSBA would, initially, have three principal tasks. First, it would gradually establish the
necessary and sufficient range of technical services which would be complementary to ATAS. Second,
it would, in conjunction with the NGO/consultant, promote the establishment of SPGAs and RSBAs as
the channels for the delivery of project goods and services. Third, it would gradually establish the
essential commercial capabilities for complementing the commercial activities of its members, especially
in marketing. While membership of KSBA would be open to all sections of the industry, the voting
structure would ensure that both ownership and control, through a majority at general meetings and in
committee composition, would be in the hands of sheep producers through their SPGAs and RSBAs.
3.13   The need for essential SPGA and RSBA services would, however, precede KSBA's formal
establishment. KSBA would be formally established a year or two after a sufficient number of SPGAs
and RSBAs have been formed to become its constituent members.  In the interim period, the
NGO/consultant, employed to organize the SPGAs and RSBAs, would also develop the required
corporate, constitutional and commercial structure for KSBA operations as an apex body. Inter alia, the
NGO/consultant would: (a) act as the management committee of the Association; (b) establish a Group
Development Division to promote the formation of the primary associations or groups which would
constitute the main body of the Association's membership; (c) institute and develop the required producer
services, including the establishment of a new wool and lamb marketing system; and (d) provide key
technical assistance staff, including a Group Supervisor and Financial Specialist, and a Group
Development Specialist. The NGO would be charged with specific responsibility to establish KSBA with
by-laws acceptable to IDA/IFAD. Following the incorporation of KSBA, the NGO/consultant would
hand over the management of its affairs to KSBA's elected committee. An appropriate contingent of local
staff would be recruited by the NGO/consultant and their salaries would be financed by the project for
the first three years. The cost of the NGO/consultant contracts would be funded by the project for three
years. Project funds, in the form of grants, would be given to KSBA for these purpose by Government.
The project would also finance KSBA's acquisition of computers, equipment, and vehicles. Project funds
for these purposes would be given on full cost recovery basis, with a two year grace period.
3.14 Wool and Lamb Marketing System. The project would assist the sheep industry to set up a new
marketing system for Iamb and wool, where possible using existing facilities. This new marketing system
would be built around the following principles: (a) grading at the farmn and local (village) wool collection
center is of crucial importance to ascertain homogeneity and quality of the wool; (b) local wool stores
and lamb auction facilities would be owned and operated by producer groups, operating as marketing
cooperatives; and (c) the new marketing system would incorporate incentives for: (i) improved lamb and
wool production and harvesting practices by producers; (ii) verification of wool quality by independent
testing; (iii) wool marketing in lot sizes accepted by international buyers; and (iv) promoting sellers'
confidence in lamb and wool quality control and adherence to contracts.
3.15   The privatization in the sheep industry has resulted in small individual flock sizes to the point that
individual producers do not produce quantities of lamb and wool necessary for efficient marketing. In
order to obtain acceptable lot sizes and improve the efficiency of production, storage, testing and



- 18 -
marketing, individual producers would have to cooperate. This project component would closely
collaborate with the component that would be developing producers' associations and ATAS. Where
possible, it should follow, and at least be in tune with the initial set-up of small producers' groups and
ATAS, as these would constitute the prime basis of the new wool and lamb marketing structure.
3.16   The primary focus for improvement of wool quality would be the farm, local and regional wool
stores. At the farm level, emphasis (through SPGA and ATAS) would be placed on proper flock
management procedures, including appropriate timing for lambing, prevention of excessive vegetable
matter contamination in wool, proper shearing techniques, preliminary skirting of the fleece during
shearing, removal of any colored fibers, and separate shearing of any colored sheep. Primary wool
grading, classing, and sorting would initially be done at the local wool store largely by ATAS staff. This
quality control would be reinforced and refined at the regional wool store by NGO/KSBA specialists who
would check the grading and sorting done at the local store. The regional wool stores would be
responsible for putting together lots of wool sizes (weights) that would be appropriate for offer on the
international market. These lots, with similar characteristics, would be baled in packs of appropriate size
in accordance with international market requirements. These lots would then be cored and grab samples
removed for testing at both local and international laboratories in accordance with the requirements of
either International Wool Technical Organization (IWTO) or ASTM (US Standards), depending on the
market. The regional wool stores would be equipped with the requisite equipment for wool baling and
sampling for testing.
3.17   Lamb marketing would follow the introduction and adoption of a dual purpose sheep breed that
would optimize the production of both lamb and wool. Like wool, lamb marketing would be organized
under the auspices of the SPGAs and RSBAs which would organize local markets or auctions at which
local traders and agents of exporters would participate. A quality incentive system would be introduced
through a grade-based pricing structure to permit producers of quality lambs to fetch premium prices for
their products and to discourage the production of inferior animals. The bulk of lamb production would
be destined for export markets in the Middle East and Turkey to fetch better prices than domestic prices
(para 1 .31).
3.18 Wool Marketing Center (WMC). Although the regional wool stores would be free to export
wool directly to foreign buyers, the bulk of raw wool selling in international markets would be
coordinated through a marketing center in Bishkek. The center, owned and operated by KSBA, would
consist of offices and a wool display facility to present wool in an attractive setting to buyers. The
display facility would be used mainly for display of samples drawn from regional wool stores and
presented to buyers. The marketing center would, among other things, collect and dispatch samples of
core and grab wool for testing abroad; facilitate wool sales, including holding auctions during June-
August; and establish wool selling regulations that generate confidence and meet standards of international
buyers.
3.19   WMC would also serve as an information center, adequately equipped to collect and disseminate
international market information to local wool producers and buyers, including wool prices, standards,
sale procedures and conditions. It is expected that WMC's throughput would be about 16,000 tons of
wool, enough to justify at least three auctions of each 5,000 tons of greasy wool. Each of this amount
would be large enough to attract international buyers from China, Russia, India, Eastern Europe and
maybe Western Europe. WMC would generate its revenue by charging storage and brokerage fees.



- 19 -
3.20   Since WMC would be operated as a KSBA activity, its establishment would, therefore, be
contracted out by the PIU to the same international consultants responsible for the establishment of the
KSBA. An international Wool Marketing Specialist would be directly responsible for the establishment
and operations of the WMC during the initial three years. Upon the formal establishment of KSBA, the
WMC would become formally owned by the former. The project would finance WMC's physical
infrastructure (stores, offices, auction floors), and equipment on full cost recovery basis, operating
expenditures on a grant basis in the first year of operation and on full cost recovery basis in subsequent
years. Technical assistance would be provided on a grant basis. Project funds for these purposes would
be transferred to KSBA or before it is established, to the NGO/Consultant managing its affairs by the
Government.
3.21   WMC would establish regulations governing the sale of greasy wool in the country. Such
regulations would underpin the transparency and integrity of the new wool marketing and trade system
and would cover: (i) inspection in local and regional wool stores by designated inspectors; (ii)
establishment of standard weights and grades for wool; (iii) wool display procedures; (iv) wool baling
and sampling procedures; (v) payment procedures and terms; (vi) terms and conditions of domestic and
international sales; and (vii) procedures for settlement of claims, disputes or arbitration.
3.22   Wool Testing.  This is an integral and important part of wool marketing because it facilitates
the use of product differentiation as an important instrument of pricing policy. Pricing wool on grade
basis would stimulate quality improvement among wool producers, provided the gradewise price
differentials are significant. Testing of Kyrgyz greasy wool, on the basis of internationally accepted
standards, is a sine non quo for its entry and acceptance on the international wool markets at reasonable
prices. International buyers' confidence in Kyrgyz wool would, initially, be greatly enhanced through
client-specific or general testing by an independent foreign wool testing laboratory. At the Tokmok
scouring plant there is a wool testing facility which was previously used to test all wool produced in the
Kyrgyz Republic. About 25,000 samples of wool per year were processed here. The samples processed
were of original size, instead of core samples. Consequently the facility is relatively large with a variety
of physical facilities and equipment, most of which would not be required for a modern testing facility.
A modern, small-scale testing laboratory would be set up in one room of this facility with provision for
future expansion under the project. Government would, however, need to transfer the ownership and
operation of the facility to the Livestock Institute who would run it as both a commercial testing
laboratory and a research laboratory. Combining these aspects of wool testing into one facility would
be logical and economic. The project would support the refurbishing of this facility by replacing some
of the obsolete equipment with modern ones, constructing an environmentally controlled room for storing
wool samples prior to measuring fiber diameter, and installing an auxiliary water heating device to bring
water temperature at desired levels. The laboratory would charge a testing fee. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the ownership and management of the wool testing facility would be formally
transferred to the Livestock Institute by December 31, 1996. It was agreed that, should the Borrower
decide to locate the proposed wool testing laboratory at a location and facility other than the Tolanok
Scouring Plant, the Borrower' would submit a feasibility study therefore for review and approval by the
Association and the Fund. The said study should fully specify the economic and financial implications
of the Borrower's decision. It was further agreed that, if the Borrower decides to relocate the laboratory,
(a) any additional costs of establishing and operating said laboratory would be fully met by the Borrower;
and (b) the Borrower and the Association would agree on an amendment to the Credit Development
Agreements to the effect that the depositing of funds for such additional costs would be a condition for
the Association 's disbursement against any expenditures for the laboratory. Export marketing orientation
of the wool industry in the country would certainly require effective marketing promotion, including wool



- 20 -
testing. In order to eliminate some of the existing trade barriers for the sheep industry, agreement was
obtained to eliminate the existing export taxes and licensing for wool, hides and skins before negotiations.
3.23   The project would also support wool testing by foreign laboratories that would be competitively
contracted to one or two wool testing laboratories with international reputation for independence and
reliability. As the number of testing laboratories is rather small and highly concentrated (dominated by
the SGS Group), such contracting would be done by limited international competitive bidding.
3.24   Duplicate samples each of about one kilogram of wool would be obtained from bales stored in
regional or central store by WMC and mailed to the local testing laboratory and contracted testing
laboratories by commercial couriers. Such couriers as well as testing would be competitively contracted
out by WMC. Foreign wool testing would stop once the local testing laboratory has been registered with
the IWTO. Since world market international prices are based primarily on fiber diameter, the basic
wool characteristics to be tested would be yield and diameter. Testing of other wool characteristics would
be done on demand basis by customers. WMC would charge an appropriate testing fee. The project
would provide for the financing of both the foreign testing and courier contracts, including any incidental
expenses (e.g., inspection and clearance of samples in the recipient country), all of which would be fully
recovered through appropriate charges on wool.
3.25   Development of Livestock Support Services (DLSS). The transformation of MAF's role from
production and marketing functions to a provider of essential support services to private fanners would
be addressed through a Bank-supported Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and an IFAD-
supported Agricultural Development Project. The need for the provision of support services to private
sheep producers would, however, precede MAF's functional transformation under the proposed projects.
The proposed DLSS component would, therefore, initiate this transformation with respect to support
services essential to private sheep producers. Following the implementation of these proposed projects
and the TACIS extension program, the provision of support services under SDP would be merged with
the activities of these initiatives. These projects would be designed to ensure this merger. In areas where
the existing TACIS extension program would have proved effective and sustainable, every effort would
be made to blend this project's activities with those being provided under the TACIS extension program.
The specific objective of this component is to strengthen MAF's capability to implement the proposed
project and to provide essential support services to sheep producers. DLSS would comprise (i) the
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which would be contracted by MAF to execute the
project; (ii) Agricultural Training Advisory Services (ATAS), at oblast and rayon level, to advise and
train private livestock producers; and (iii) the upgrading of Animal Health Services to monitor, diagnose
and control animal diseases, especially brucellosis, and to enforce animal health regulations and
quarantines. Agreement on the creation of ATAS was obtained before negotiations.
3.26   Project Implementation Unit, managed by international consultants, would be contracted by
MAF to manage the execution of the project. The PIU would have operational andfinancial autonomy,
including the authority to select and sub-contract specific project activities or components to local and
international consultants or agencies. Agreement to that effect was obtained before negotiations. It was
agreed that the PIU would operate on the basis of terms of reference which, together with those of other
consultants under the project, were agreed at negotiations. The PIU would: (a) recruit its own local
qualified staff and pay competitive salaries; (b) program and coordinate the implementation of the Project;
(c) open and operate accounts in local and foreign currencies; (d) select and supervise consultants to
implement project activities; (e) sub-contract to various agencies, local or foreign, the implementation
of some of the project's components, under contracts to be approved by IDA/IFAD; and (f) supervise



- 21 -
compliance to the Project Operational Manual by all implementing agencies. The PIU would be fully
accountable to MAF for satisfactory execution of the entire project. The Head of the PIU would have
overall responsibility to oversee the implementation of the project. He would be assisted by: (i) a
Financial Manager, internationally recruited, who would handle budgeting, accounting, and
disbursements; and implement financial control of the entire project, and (ii) a locally recruited Finance
Manager Designate to work with the expatriate Finance Manager; (iii) two local counterpart staff would
be recruited to understudy and assist the Head of the PIU in project management and technical matters
respectively; and (iv) a Procurement Specialist, locally recruited, to assist the Head of PIU in managing
procurement and sub-contracting arrangements. All PIU experts would be recruited competitively by the
Borrower through an international firm of consultants and approved by IDA. Six local support staff
would also be competitively recruited by the consultants. The Project would fund, for the duration of
the Project, the PIU contract with an international management firm through which the two expatriate
consultants and the local consultants and staff would be recruited and employed. The project would
finance the PIU consultant's contract during the project period. The Government has met the requirement
for the tendering of the management contract, which was a condition of Board Presentation. The signing
of this contract would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.27   Agricultural Training and Advisory Services specific to livestock producers would be
established in areas where sheep production is predominant. This would be done to complement the EU
TACIS extension program and as a precursor to a broad-based ATAS under the proposed Bank and IFAD
operations. The ultimate aim under these operations would be to establish ATAS covering both livestock
and cropping enterprises within the context of a farming system approach. The project would start
building ATAS in those areas where livestock production is predominant. The project would also aim
to complement other pilot regional extension programs being initiated by the EU TACIS group and some
NGOs (Winrock and Swiss Helvetas). In particular, it would seek to be fully integrated with these
programs in areas where they have proved successful and sustainable. Integration mechanisms with these
programs would be determined on the basis of prevailing local conditions during the planning and
preparation of individual project annual work plans at rayon or oblast level.
3.28   ATAS would be critical to growth and profitability recovery in the country's sheep industry. The
emerging private farmers do not understand market-based decision making processes and, due to their
historical roles on state or collective farms, have very limited understanding of the complexity and
interrelationships of the many management and production decisions required to succeed in a market
economy environment. The private farmers recognize this need, and almost unreservedly place a very
high priority on the need for technical assistance. During the preparation of this project, the common
refrain from farmers was "show us what and how to do it". This, in itself, explains why the proposed
project is "technical know how or technology transfer" intensive, in terms of the relatively high share
of technical assistance and training in the total project costs. Neither MAF nor the Oblast administrations
have the resources or knowledge and experience of appropriate extension programming to implement
ATAS. Technical assistance, consisting of foreign technical advisors and consultants, as well as training
of local staff and farmers would be critical to successful achievement of the overall project objectives.
ATAS would therefore provide support to livestock farmers in critical areas of sheep production, sheep
husbandry practices, sheep nutrition and health, wool shearing and preparation and quality control,
grazing and farm management. The focus of ATAS would be to deliver extension and training services
which, for the time being, are not being provided by other donor-supported extension. ATAS district
offices would be established in response to specific requests by active groups of sheep farmers. In this
context the district presence of ATAS would be demand-driven by the ultimate target group, that is, sheep
producers. The groups would be established under the auspices of the KSBA group development program



- 22 -
(para. 52). The establishment of ATAS offices would start in Naryn and Talas oblasts, adding one oblast
in each subsequent year. Each district office would have a training coordinator, supported by two
technical staff. An ATAS manager in DLMD would manage the planning and execution of program.
He would be assisted by an expatriate Extension Advisor, based in DLMD. To ensure that women
participate actively in the implementation of project activities, a position for a women's advisor, to be
occupied by a female, would be created at oblast level within ATAS. The advisor would ensure that the
project provides women with appropriate training in awareness of their role and benefits and technical
skills. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this position would be established at the beginning
of implementing ATAS in each oblast.
3.29   ATAS Basic Principles. The programming and implementation of ATAS would be market
driven. This implies that: (a) program priorities, in terms of technical packages or messages, would be
determined by the farmers' continual responses to market signals; (b) farmers, through their village or
rayon associations, would determine their local ATAS needs and would communicate these to ATAS staff
at rayon level; (c) the rayon producers' associations would collectively determine their priorities and
communicate these to their oblast representatives (RSBA) and ATAS staff; and (d) the process would be
repeated at the oblast and national levels, during which both ATAS and breeding research staff would
be involved. To further emphasize the empowerment of private producers in ATAS program decision
making, representatives of RSBAs would participate in the selection of ATAS agents (staff) assigned to
their oblasts and in their annual performance evaluation, and in the approval of the project's annual work
plans and budgets at oblast level. This would permit the sheep breeders associations, ATAS, and
breeding researchers, to work in concert to optimize productivity, meet market demands, and maximize
profitability for the individual producers.
3.30  ATAS Program Methods. ATAS would use the SPGAs as the principle vehicle of reaching out
to farmers. Within each SPGA, one or two "progressive farmers" would be identified and recruited to
volunteer to become "contact farmers" or leaders to spearhead the adoption of new technical packages
or recommendations. These farmers would usually be highly respected, closely watched by other
farmers, and have great pride in their position and ability to "make things happen". Rayon ATAS agents
would identify these private sheep producers and use their farms as demonstration farms to educate other
farmers on the basis of the identified priority program needs in the area. These progressive farmers must
therefore be willing to use their farms and sheep flocks for field days and "result demonstration" or on-
farm research trials. Typical training programs on such demonstration farms would include, for example:
(a) management practices necessary for the production of a quality wool clip; (b) proper shearing shed,
equipment, and shearing techniques; (c) methods of skirting, classing and packaging wool at the shearing
shed; (d) appropriate management of fodder and range pastures; (e) proper lambing timetable; and (f)
appropriate stocking rates and flock structure during winter.
3.31   In addition to field demonstrations, other communication methods would be used to reach out
to the producers, including the publication of simple fact sheets, newsletters, radio/television programs.
The messages to be communicated would be locally determined by the needs of producers in response
to market requirements. In general, producers' information needs would include: (a) wool and lamb
market information (prices, auction timetable); (b) pasture management practices, with emphasis on
grazing systems that optimize pasture and animal productivity; (c) winter pasture and feed
supplementation practices; (d) sheep breeding-breeds, selection practices, rams; (e) shearing, wool
handling and market practices or regulations; (f) flock health management planning and disease control:
and (g) routine sheep management practices such as lambing, castrating, docking, internal and external
parasite control methods, weaning, finishing lambs for market.



- 23 -
3.32   ATAS Staffing.  The number of professional staff employed by the ATAS would be
approximately 80, including 20 subject matter specialists and 60 extension agents. Senior staff in DLMD
(4 persons) and ATAS regional staff (6 positions) would be responsible for providing technical and
professional guidance in key subject matters and training ATAS rayon staff (60 persons by year 5 of the
project). The staff training program would have to emphasize four basic principle underlaying the
planning and implementation of the ATAS program: (a) the primary role of ATAS is to empower
producers and enable them to respond appropriately to market changes; (b) understanding of the dynamics
and techniques of demonstration farms and on-farm research by ATAS staff; (c) good training in sheep
husbandry and farm management with special emphasis on identification of operational problems of which
farmers might not be aware; and (d) ATAS staff training must be a continuous process. The project
would support four basic levels of training: (a) training and extension for private farmers and member
groups of the KSBA (the prime target); (b) training of trainers at the oblast level and later, at the rayon
level, as the extension service develops; (c) training of head office personnel; and (d) training of
Agricultural Institute young lecturers through a series of study tours in other countries with well
developed extension services. This would aim to enhance the Institutes' capacity to provide specific
training programs for special groups of trainers.
3.33    The project includes provision for adequate operating costs, which were lacking in the past, and
allowances for field trips. With proficient management, and regular training, there are enough incentives
to deliver professional and up-to-date advice to the farmers. It is expected that in the future some farmer
associations, organized under KSBA or RSBAs, would take over the assistance to small farmers,
including extension services, and that the Government provision of such services would be slowly phased-
out. Such transfer would result in cost recovery for the services provided. It is envisaged that some
ATAS staff would be drawn from the existing pool of livestock experts currently laid-off at state and
collective farms or whose services shall become redundant after privatization. In addition, existing
private farmers with professional qualifications and appropriate experience could be candidates for district
advisory positions.
3.34   The Project would provide for technical assistance, training and study tours, equipment,
transportation and, where necessary, incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis. All funds would
be channeled to DLMD by PIU on the basis of agreed yearly work programs and budgets.
Implementation of ATAS would be done by the DLMD under the overall supervision of the PIU.
3.35   Animal Health Services. Animal health services that the Department of Veterinary Services
(DVS) would provide include meat inspection, monitoring, diagnosing and controlling diseases of national
or public health importance, and enforcing animal health regulations and quarantine. The project would
support three closely related major activities: (a) privatization of veterinary services; (b) brucellosis
control in selected oblasts; (c) strengthening of the Government (oblast and rayon) ability to monitor the
prevalence of animnal diseases and disease control; and (d) local production of some veterinary vaccines,
including vaccines against brucellosis.
3.36   Privatization of Veterinary Services, involving private veterinary practitioners in disease
monitoring and control activities, would be promoted under the project through contractual arrangements
with the Department of Veterinary Services. The project would support the government effort to
privatize clinical veterinary services through training and financing the participation of private
veterinarians in the brucellosis control program. Producers" groups would be encouraged to have
retainer contracts with private veterinarians who would provide clinical veterinary services and control
of diseases.



- 24 -
3.37   Brucellosis Control would initially be limited to Naryn and Issyk-Kul oblasts where quarantine
is easier to implement than in the others. Project funds would be used to contract private veterinary
practitioners to execute the vaccination program and to perform clinical services. Government would
contract with the private veterinarians to carry out the necessary disease control activities, including
vaccination and limited testing. About 150 private veterinarians would be required in each of the two
oblasts supported by the project.
3.38   The project would provide for the planning of the brucellosis program by local consultants (from
the Veterinary Research Institute) with the help of an international Animal Disease Control Specialist,
the procurement of vaccines and equipment, supporting activities such as training, monitoring,
dissemination of information on diseases. The vaccines would be provided free of charge to participating
veterinarians and eventually to farmers, except the equipment which would be provided at cost.
Vaccination procedures would be conducted in compliance with FAO guidelines.
3.39   Strengthening Government Capability. The project would support the strengthening of the DVS
diagnostic and quarantine capabilities through upgrading of the diagnostic laboratories (in the project
oblasts) and a network of regional epidemiology units with the assistance of an expatriate Epidemiologist.
Testing of new vaccines at the Veterinary Research Institute would also be supported. Finally, the project
would provide for graduate training (MS and PhD level) for a number of young animal health specialists
in relevant subjects, study tours, vehicles, and equipment (including computers).
3.40   Local Veterinary Vaccines Production. The project would support the purchase of equipment
and materials to produce veterinary vaccines, including vaccines against brucellosis, locally. A lumpsum
of US$0.5 million has been allocated for the purpose, but disbursement of thesefunds must be subject to
the Borrower carrying out a feasibility study satisfactory to IDA.
3.41   Sheep Breeding Research Support (SBRS). Sheep breeding research is conceived in the context
of holistic production systems, consisting of production of appropriate sheep breeds and the ecosystem
(land and pastures). The sheep production and land management systems of the last 40 years were not
sustainable. Due to overstocking and pasture degradation, sheep were housed in sheds during November-
March and fed roughage and concentrates at levels that were economically unviable. The Kyrgyz Fine
Wool sheep were selected for staple length of greasy wool, with little attention to the economically
important traits of reproductive efficiency, body size and lamb growth rate, and the most economically
important wool traits of fiber diameter and clean wool yield. In addition to overstocking and concurrent
needs for high cost feed supplements, ewes were lambed during January-February, which resulted in peak
nutrient demand during the high cost feeding period. Furthermore, to maximize wool production, all
lambs were retained to one year of age for shearing before sale for slaughter. This further aggravated
the excessive stocking rates and high supplemental feed costs. The proposed project would support: (a)
the development of a production system that would reduce feed and labor costs and thereby improve
production efficiency; (b) improvement in breeding and selection technology; and (c) improvements in
pasture and fodder management.
3.42   Reducing Production Costs. In order to reduce production costs, private sheep producers would
be encouraged to match the sheep production cycle with the natural resource base production cycle.
Lambing should be done in late April and May, during which the peak nutrient demands for the late
gestation and lactation of ewes would coincide with spring forage growth. This would minimize or
eliminate the need for high cost supplemental feeding. With appropriate stocking rate, availability of
winter pasture, supplemental forage crops and crop aftermath grazing in lowlands would increase,



- 25 -
eliminating the need for housing the sheep in winter. The ewes should be shorn just prior to lambing,
and the lambs should be sold after weaning in the fall. A review of the projected sheep production
budget models (Tables 6. la-6. ld), shows that a combination of adopting the above production cycle and
the development of an improved dual purpose Kyrgyz Fine Wool breed of sheep (para. 3.42) could
substantially reduce unit production costs and enhance the profitability of the sheep industry in the Kyrgyz
Republic. These two major shifts in sheep production would be market driven. The improvement in
wool quality would meet changing world market demands for finer wools. The increased lamb
production would meet major demands for imported lamb into the Middle East countries during the fall
and winter months following the shift in the Muslim holy season in 1997.
3.43  Improving Sheep Breeding. The existing sheep in the state breeding farms are highly selected
Kyrgyz Fine Wools. They are relatively small, with mature ewes averaging about 50-55 kg and mature
rams at 90-100 kg. To optimize lamb and wool production, the project would support the development
of a dual purpose fine wool breed with improved reproductive efficiency, lamb growth rate, and wool
quality. For this purpose, semen would be imported from two lines of sheep, consisting of the American
Rambouillet and the Rafter 7 Improved Merino. This would result in increasing the average weight of
a 150-day lamb by 50 percent over the Kyrgyz Fine Wool breed and produce the same amount and
quality of wool. The rams selected for semen importation should be the best of these two breeds, and
should have genetic potential to have above average performance of the selected traits. 5,000 straws of
semen, containing at least 70 million live sperm per straw, from each of the two breeds would be
imported each year of the first four years of the project. New rams would be collected each year to
maximize the genetic variation of the breed sample. 2,500 straws from each of the two breeds would
be used to mate selected ewes at Lushikhin (Talas) and Orgochor (Issyk-kul) State Breeding Farms.
Approximately, 1,750 ewes should lamb to each breed at each of the two breeding farms. The first two
years would produce first generation offspring which would be mated AI in the third and fourth year to
produce second generation offspring. A comparable number of Kyrgyz Fine Wool ewes should be mated
to the best available Kyrgyz Fine Wool rams each for comparisons at each of the two breeding farms.
All ewe lambs would be retained for comparison of reproduction and wool performance traits. The top
30-50 percent of the ram lambs produced each year would be distributed to AI private breeders and sheep
producers at cost.
3.44   Sheep breeding activities under the project would be done at three breeding research farms,
operated by Asyl Mal, at Orgochor, Lushikhin, and Soukulok Al Center. The project would support
upgrading of the physical infrastructure at these farms, particularly at the Soukulok Al Center. At the
Center, the following upgrading would be supported: purchase of a liquid nitrogen generator, semen
straw packaging equipment, medium-size semen storage tanks, small semen tanks for transporting semen
in-country. The AI Center would be used as the control point for imported semen, and would be the site
for all AI training programs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that the
breeding stock at and the ownership of the Asyl Malfarms participating in the project's breeding program
would not be substantially changed without approval of IDA and IFAD.
3.45   As private breeding farms have not yet been established, the bulk of breeding activities would be
done on these Asyl-Mal farms. DLMD is, however, expected to assist newly emerging private breeding
farms in participating in the upgrading program through advice, distribution and dissemination of
improved genetic material. This would assure rapid commercialization and privatization of breeding
services through the emerging private breeding farms. With the decreasing number of publicly owned
sheep, the proposed breeding program would require close cooperation, especially in selection, with
private producers.



- 26 -
3.46   The project would support the employment of expatriate consultants (in Genetics and
Reproduction), to work with the staff of the Asyl-Mal in upgrading the sheep breeding program of Asyl-
Mal and to train its livestock breeding staff.
3.47   Staff of DLMD, Asyl-Mal, Agricultural University and selected private breeding farms would
be trained locally and externally using project funds. The Breeding Specialist and Reproductive Specialist
would provide a series of short technical training courses at various sites in the country, primarily for
those directly involved in the breeding program and extension personnel as well as staff of the selected
private breeding farms. The project would also provide for short and long term courses in sheep
breeding for staff of the implementing agencies, including MS/PhD training in foreign countries.
3.48   Pasture and Fodder Research. The project would increase fodder quality and availability and
assure a more efficient and sustainable use of natural pastures. To achieve these objectives the project
would support: (i) improved pasture monitoring, evaluation and protection; (ii) pasture and forage
research; and (iii) improvement of fodder harvesting and conservation.
3.49   Pasture Monitoring, Evaluation and Protection.  Every year, the Geobotanic Expedition as
part of the State Scientific Center of Land Resources and Use (SSCLRU) surveys the pasture conditions
of a restricted number of rayons. The location of the pasture enforces the use of horses as means of
transport. It usually took about 20 years to cover the whole country, but nowadays with a decreased staff
number, it is going to take much longer. This approach gives reason to question the reliability of the
existing data on the overall decrease in pasture productivity. To develop a fast country-wide monitoring
and evaluation method, the project would support a one-time intensive pasture monitoring and evaluation
program which should lead to the identification of a limited number of pasture status parameters or
indicators. These pasture status parameters would then be used for rapid pasture monitoring and
evaluation in future years.  Pasture characteristics to be considered are vegetation cover, species
composition, dry matter production, dry matter percentage of palatable and unpalatable species, perennial
and annual grasses, legumes and other dicotyledons. Based on pasture status, the (SSCLRU), in
collaboration with the Oblast Committees of the State Committee of Nature Protection (SCNP), would
identify areas which should be totally protected against any exploitation. The actual protection, would
be agreed with and implemented by each concerned rayon administration.
3.50   Pasture and Forage Research. Animal research and monitoring capabilities within the Livestock
Institute are inadequate. The laboratories are poorly equipped to meet national research and monitoring
needs relating to pasture and forage. Since the thrust of this project is to reduce the role of concentrates,
information on the nutritional values of various pastures and fodder would be an important input in ATAS
messages to farmers. The project would therefore support upgrading the Livestock Institute's capacity
to analyze and monitor the nutritional value of pastures and fodder in various locations of the country.
This would include laboratory upgrades, additional equipment, and acquisition of foreign research
materials.
3.51   Improved Harvesting and Preservation of Winter Fodder. The project would support the
increase of winter feed availability by encouraging farmers, through ATAS, to adopt proper methods of
forage harvesting and storage. For example, following proper harvesting management for lucerne could
penmit a third, instead of two, harvests or leave significant amounts of forage for aftermath grazing.
Advice on establishment of fodder production (legumes) on marginal lands, currently unprofitably
cropped with wheat and barley, would enhance availability of winter grazing resources. Advice on
proper management of pastures would also arrest the deterioration of spring and fall pasture composition



- 27 -
into poor quality grasses, thistles and other noxious weeds, some of which are detrimental to sheep
performance and wool quality.
3.52  SSCLRU and ATAS would be contracted by the PIU to implement these activities. The PIU
would also employ consultants to assist the two organizations in implementing their respective activities,
including a Pasture Management Specialist, a Fodder Haying/Storing Specialist on short term basis. The
implications on pasture and agricultural fodder management resulting from the above activities would be
disseminated through annual seminars involving ATAS staff and farmers groups. These seminars would
be organized by DLMD.
3.53   Policies and regulations governing the use and management of pastures are still evolving within
the context of the ongoing land reform process in the country. W ithout prejudice to this process,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower would ensure that: (i) the grazing rights
leased by the Borrower to sheep producers' associations and other users shall be for land management
units large enough to support sustainable grazing systems in respect of the respective size of the sheep
management unit; and (ii) the lease contracts and administrative acts relating to the granting of grazing
rights shall include adequate provisions stipulating grazing regulations andpractices designed to establish
good pasture management practices, and shall be duly implemented.



- 28 -
IV. PRoJECT Cosms AND FINANCING
Project Costs and Financing
4.1   Project Costs. Total costs over the five year period of the project are estimated at US$16.8
mnillion (Table 4.1), including physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange part of these costs
is estimated at US$12.7 million, or 76 percent of total costs. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have
been calculated on the costs of equipment and civil works, and price contingencies of 2.6 percent per
year, reflecting the Bank's estimate of the average annual price increase for 1996-2003, have been
included. Detailed cost tables are in Annex A.
4.2   Table 4.2 snumarizes the project costs by categories. Investment costs (including technical
assistance) make up US$13.5 million, or 80 percent of total project costs. Technical assistance costs
would be USS4.1 rnillion, or 25 percent of total costs. This reflects the severity of lack of local
implementation capacity and the need for implementation support and institution-building. The latter is
also reflected by the relatively high cost of training (US$1.6 million, or 10 percent of total costs). The
transformation of the Kyrgyz sheep industry into a market-responsive system is initially extremely
technical "know-how" intensive, given the dearth of market-based management skills and technical
knowledge in the industry today.
4.3   Financing Plan. The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.6 million equivalent would finance 69
percent of total project costs, and 91 percent of foreign exchange costs. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) would provide US$3.5 million, or 21 percent of total project costs.
The Government would contribute US$1.7 million, or about 10 percent of total project costs. This
contribution would cover approximately 52 percent of the total incremental operating costs of the project.
As a condition of effectiveness, Government would produce evidence that all conditions precedent of IFAD
financing, except the effectiveness of the IDA financing, have been fulfilled.
4.4    On-lending Terms and Conditions. IDA Credit funds channeled to Government agencies,
contracted to implement specific project components or activities, would be channeled as grants through
the regular budget process. It was agreed, during negotiations, that funds to producers 'associations and
affiliates for technical assistance, training and operating expenditures would be on grant basis in the
initial year of operation, and on full cost recovery basis in subsequent years. It was further agreed that,
after the first year, loans to producers ' associations and their affiliates for goods and civil works would
bear an interest rate determined on the basis of the prevailing discount rate charged by the National Bank
of Kyrgyzstan to be denominated in Som, repayable over and up to five years including a grace period
of no more than two years and the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs (including contingencies)
(US$ mnillion)
Millions of                           Foreign as
US$                                % of Total
Local     Foreign        Total
A. Private Sector Development
(a) KSB Associations                      .   0.49         1.18         1.67          71
(b) Wool Testing                              0.09         0.84        0.93           91
(c) Wool Marketing                            0.58         1.83         2.41          76
Sub-total                                     1.16         3.85         5.01          77
B. Dev. of Livestock Support Services
(a) Project Impl. Unit                        0.48         0.57         1.05          55
(b) ATAS                                      0.82         1.65         2.47          67
(c) Animal Health                             0.30         2.67         2.97          90
Sub-total                                     1.60         4.89         6.49          75
C. Research Support
(a) Sheep Breeding Research                   0.74         2.44         3.18          77
(b) Pastures Land Resources                   0.30         0.51         0.81          63
Sub-total                                     1.04         2.95         3.99          74
Total Base Costs                                  3.80        11.69       15.49          75
Physical Contingencies                            0.0         0.54         0.54         100
Price Contingencies                               0.25        0.50         0.75          66
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               4.05       12.73        16.78          76



- 30 -
Table 4.2: Summarv of Project Costs per Categories (including contingencies)
(in US$'000)
Civil     Goods  Training   Technical   Operating      Total
Works                       Assistance   Costs
IDA & Kyrgyz Govt.
(i)  Project Implementation                 92       24         897          92        1106
Unit
(ii) Animal Health                56      2436       157        328         248       3224
(iii) Sheep Breeding Research     56      2317       50         216         886       3525
(iv) Pastures & Land Research      -       300      152         160         249        861
(v) Wool Marketing System        618       691      503         537         298       2647
(vi) Wool Testing Information      -       557         -        129         324        1010
Services
Sub-total                   730      6393       886        2267       2097       12373
IFAD & Kyrgyz Govt.
(i) Ag. Training & Adv.                    493      508         927         715       2643
Services
(ii) Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders'                 98      218         936         510        1762
Associations
Sub-total                      0       591      726        1863        1225       4405
TOTAL                            730      6984      1612       4130        3322      16778
% of Total                       4.4      41.6       9.6       24.6        19.8       100.0
Procurement
4.5    Procurement Responsbilities. The PIU would be responsible for carrying out all procurement
and disbursements under the project.  The PIU  would include a procurement specialist, with
responsibilities that will include, inter A ia: (i) training PIU staff on Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures; (ii) developing monitoring procedures for procurement and disbursement; (iii) ensuring
proper notification of bidding opportunities; (iv) preparing specific bid documents based on the current
Bank Standard Bidding Documents for goods and works; (v) preparing letters of invitation and terms of
reference for consultants; (vi) assisting the PIU in the evaluation of bids and proposals and the preparation
of bid evaluation reports; and (vii) assisting the PIU in contract administration. In addition, IDA will
monitor procurement activities, contract administration and project record keeping during periodic
supervision missions.
4.6    Procurement Procedures.  The General Procurement Notice for the project was issued
immediately following negotiations. Goods and works would be procured under the "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995, and consultants' services would be
procured in accordance with the "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the



- 31 -
World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981. A summary of procurement arrangements is given
in Table 4.3. A Procurement Workshop will be conducted in Bishkek tentatively in July 1996.
4.7   Procurement Arrangements. The items summarized in Table 4.3 would be procured as follows:
Because of their scattered nature in temporal and locational termns, Civil Works for the
construction/renovation of regional or central wool stores estimated to cost less than US$75,000 per
contract and up to a maximum aggregate amount of US$750,000 would be procured under lump sum,
fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from three qualified contractors in response to
written invitation. However, any work estimated to cost above US$100,000 and below US$500,000 will
be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using Europe and Centra Asia (ECA) Region's
Standard Bidding Document for NCB (Small Works). Goods, including equipment, agricultural
machinery, wool baling machines, computers and other office equipment, collated in different packages,
and estimated to cost more than US$200,000 up to an aggregate of US$5.7 million, would be procured
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The number of ICB packages would not exceed seven.
For ICB contracts, local manufacturers, eligible for domestic preference in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines, would be granted a domestic preference in bid evaluation equivalent to 15
percent of the CIF price, or the amnount of customs duties and other import taxes, whichever is lower.
Contracts for the supply of goods and equipment, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 up to an
aggregate of US$700,000 would be procured through International Shopping (IS) on the basis of
quotations to be obtained from a minimum of three suppliers from at least two eligible countries.
Contracts for the procurement of items or groups of items costing less than US$30,000 for an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$200,000 would be awarded through national shopping (NS), on the basis of
three quotations obtained from three different eligible suppliers, depending on the availability of such
items in the Kyrgyz Republic. Consulting Services, amounting to seven packages for a total value of
US$2.3 million for various components detailed in the Procurement Plan, would be procured on the basis
of proposals submitted by short listed firms in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines. A number
of contracts not exceeding US$50,000 per contract and $0.3 million in total will be entered into with
individual consultants selected from shortlisted candidates acceptable to the Bank to carry out specific
tasks such as studies, produce training materials, case studies, legal support, translation services and so
on. Local staff shall be recruited through competitive process. Training, estimated at US$0.9 million,
would consist of assistance from foreign and national institutions, visits or study tours abroad, local
courses provided by local and foreign trainers. The training programs and the criteria for selection of
trainers would be agreed with IDA. Incremental Operating Costs, consisting of incremental local staff
salaries and allowances, utilities, communication, vehicle and equipment operating and maintenance
expenditures, would be procured in accordance with the directives and instructions contained in the
Project Operational Manual, approved by IDA and IFAD.
4.8   Prior Review of Procurement Decisions by IDA. Prior review of bidding documents, bid
evaluation and contract awards by IDA would be confined to ICB contracts for goods and the first two
contracts for works. For technical assistance and training, contracts valued at US$100,000 and above
for firms, and US$50,000 and above for individuals will be subject to IDA's prior review. All terms of
reference would also be subject to IDA's prior review.



- 32 -
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement
Project Element                                    Method                                                Total
ICB          N.C.B      N.B.F.       Other          Cost
1. Civil Works                                                     0.7                                    0.7
(0.7)                                (0.7)
2. Goods
2.1  Equipment                                     1.7                       0.3         o  d          2.7
(2.4)
2.2  Vehicles                                     0.4                        0.2                       0.6
(0.4)
2.3  Animals                                       2.0                       0.1                       2.1
(2.0)
2.4  Vaccines                                      1.6                                                 1.6
(1.6)
3. Consultancies and Training
3.1 Implementation Support                                                   1.8        2.3'          4. lb
(2.3)
3.2 Capacity Building                                                       0.7         0.9'          1.6c
(0.9)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                                                  2.0          1.3         3.3'
(1.3)
Total                                        5.7           0.7         5.1         5.2          16.7
(11.6)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit. N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
a. Services to be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Use of consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)
b. Co-financed by IDA (US$2.3 million) and IFAD (US$1.8 million)
c. Co-financed by IDA (US$0.9 million) and IFAD (US$0.7 million)
d. Intemational Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (NS)
e. The total US$3.3 million for operating costs would be financed jointly by IFAD (USS0.3 million), IDA (USS1.3 million) and
the Kyrgyz Government (US$1.7 million)



- 33 -
Disbursements
4.9   The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit, and IFAD Loan, would be disbursed over an eight-
year period, expected to start at the beginning of 1997. The Credit's estimated disbursement schedule,
based on average disbursement profile of similar projects, is presented in Annex G. Funds would be
disbursed as follows: either directly offshore to suppliers or consulting firms, on the basis of procurement
and/or contracts approved by IDA/IFAD or to cover operating expenditures and local procurement
through two Special Accounts, one for IDA funds and the other for IFAD. (These would be opened in
a bank, acceptable to IDA and IFAD terms and conditions.) The requirements for depository bank
holding special accounts would be: (i) execute foreign exchange and local currency transactions; (ii) open
letters of credit; (iii) handle a large number of transactions promptly; and (iv) issue prompt and detailed
monthly bank statements. The selection of a local commercial bank would be decided in consultation
with NBK and MAF in accordance with above requirements. The authorized amounts for the IDA
Special Account and the IFAD would be US$1.0 million and US$400,000 respectively. IDA and IFAD
would make initial deposits estimated at US$200,000 and US$100,000 respectively from their proposed
financing, immediately upon effectiveness, reflecting the estimated costs of operating costs, local training,
local procurement, and foreign expenditures for three months. Applications for the replenishment of
these special accounts would be monthly. Disbursement would be fully documented except that Statement
of Expenses (SOE) would be for: (i) all incremental operating costs and local training; (ii) contracts of
goods and civil works valued at less than US$200,000; (iii) contracts of consultant firms valued at less
than US$100,000; and (iv) contracts of individual consultants valued at less than US$50,000. The
documentation for justification of withdrawals made under SOE's will be retained by the PIU, will be
reviewed by IDA/lFAD missions, and will be audited annually.
4.10  Immediately after effectiveness, PIU would open and operate a Project Account in a Kyrgyz bank.
The Borrower would deposit into this account, an amount representing one-tenth of project financing
required semi-annually, and Government would agree and commit itself to pay in the saxpe amount every
six months. This first deposit by Government into the Project Account would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The persons authorized to sign for this Project Account would be the Head of the PIU,
,ointlY with a senior official of MAF specifically designated to that effect by the Deputy Minister of
Agriculture and Food responsible for livestock. These funds would be used exclusively for the local
operating costs of all the project's components.
4.11   Disbursements would be made by IDA for the total costs of the following components (the figures
are from Table 4.2): (i) the PIU, US$1.1 million, Animal Health, US$2.7 million, Sheep Breeding
Research, US$4.1 million, Pastures, US$0.9 million, and the Wool Marketing components, US$3.7
million, making a total of US$12.4 million. IDA would provide US$11.6 million, and part of the
incremental operating costs of these components (US$0.8 million) would be drawn from the
Government's contribution to project costs of US$1.7 million, leaving a balance of US$0.9 million.
4.12   Disbursements under the IDA Credit of US$11.6 million, which would be fully disbursed within
8 years, would cover approximately 90 percent of the costs as follows:
(a)    100 percent of the costs of Consulting Services for the PIU (US$0.9 million), Animal
health (US$0.3 million), Sheep Breeding Research (US$0.2 million), Pastures and Land
Resources (US$0.2 million), and the Wool Quality Testing and Marketing (US$0.7
million, making a total of US$2.3 million);
(b)    100 percent of costs of training for the above five components, with a total of US$0.9
million;



- 34 -
(c)    100 percent of foreign expenditure, or ex-factory costs of goods, for equipment for the
above five components, with a total of US$2.4 million, vehicles for a total of US$0.4
million, vaccines for the brucellosis campaign, US$1.6 million, genetic material (rams
or semen) for US$2.0 million, a total of US$6.4 million. In case of local procurement,
IDA's share of the costs would be reduced to 90 percent, with the Government providing
the balance;
(d)    90 percent of the cost of civil works mainly for the rehabilitation of the rural wool stores
(US$0.7 million), with the Government providing the difference; and
(e)    expenditures for operating costs (including vehicle and equipment maintenance and
operating costs, office supplies, utilities and salaries, wages and allowances) of the five
components indicated above: PIU (US$0.1 million), Animal Health (US$0.2 million),
Sheep Breeding Research (US$0.9 million), Pastures (US$0.2 million), and Wool
Marketing & Testing (US$0.6 million), a total of US$2.0 million. It is estimated that
IDA would disburse US$1.3 million of the operating costs (the Government will provide
the balance of US$0.8 million from its contribution to project costs.) As a result, IDA
disbursements for operating costs of those components would be 80 percent in year 1 and
50 percent from year 2 onwards.
4.13   IFAD would disburse for the total costs of the ATAS, US$2.6 million (equipment US$0.5
million, Consulting services US$0.9 million, Training US$0.5 million, and operating costs US$0.7
million); KSBA, US$1.8 million (equipment US$0.1 million, Training US$0.2 million, Consulting
Services US$0.9 million and operating costs US$0.5 million) making a total of US$4.4 million. IFAD
would provide US$3.5 million and use the balance of Government's contribution of US$0.9 million.
Percentage of disbursement for all cost would be the same as for IDA, except that IFAD's share of
operating costs of US$0.3 million (costs US$1.2 million less government's participation of US$0.9
million) would be disbursed at the following rates: in year 1, 80 percent of all operating costs of IFAD's
components, 60 percent in year 2, and 10 percent from year 3 onwards.
Accounting and Auditing
4.14   Accounting. The PIU would introduce and supervise the use of an accounting and control system
capable of reliably recording and reporting all financial transactions by the various implementation
agencies. This system must be operational when project expenditure begins. For the use of Statement
of Expenditures, the PIU would process and maintain SOE documentation to IDA's and IFAD's
satisfaction. For the Special Account mechanism, the PIU and the depository commercial bank would
agree on procedures for proper accounting of receipts, payments and submission of documentation to IDA
for the replenishment of the account.
4.15   Auditing. Annual accounts for the project, including Statement of Expenses (SOEs) and the
Special Account (SA), would be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an
independent auditor, acceptable to IDA. The various implementing agencies, under contract to the PIU,
would also provide annual financial statements for the component under their management, which would
be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA.
4.16   The auditors would be appointed by the borrower (PIU) and the implementing agencies close to
the beginning of the fiscal year, so that the auditors may commence review sufficiently early in the
financial year to complete the audit on a timely basis. Terms of Reference for the auditors would follow



- 35 -
the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing Projects Financed by the World Bank. of March
1982. The financial statements and the auditor's opinion and reports should be submitted to the World
Bank no later than six months after completion of the fiscal year. The cost of retaining the auditors
would be financed from the proceeds of the IDA Credit and IFAD Loan and included as part of project
costs.
Reporting and Monitoring
4.17   Monitoring and Evaluation. Annexes C and D show the details of the implementation plan and
of monitoring targets for each component respectively. The annual work plans would include a section
detailing the targets and the results that are expected to be achieved at the end of each year. PIU would
establish, on the basis of this information, a monitoring and evaluation system, and follow-up regularly
the progress achieved under the annual plan. The following year's work plan must explain any
discrepancy between the goals assigned and the results obtained.
4.18   Annual Reports. The PIU shall establish annual reporting on the progress achieved during the
year on all aspects of the project, problems encountered and changes introduced. Substantial changes
would have previously obtained IDA's comments and/or approval. The financial aspects of the
implementation of the project, flow of funds and a summary balance sheet would be added to this
information; the PIU must complete this annual report with all other relevant information, and send it to
IDA and IFAD not later than March 31 of each year.
4.19   Mid-Term Review. An independent consultant together with an IDA/IFAD supervision mission
would carry out a Mid-Term Review of the project at the end of third year of implementation. The
review would focus on progress made, take stock of the experience gained in implementing individual
components of the project, and evaluate problems associated with beneficiary participation in planning
and implementing project activities.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, AND IMEmENTATION
Implementation Strategy
5.1   In view of the rapid changes in the structure of the sheep industry, the challenges sheep producers
will continue to face during the transition, and the dearth of implementation capacity and experience,
flexibility in implementing the proposed project would be crucial. For this purpose, the project's
implementation strategy would consist of the following approaches. First, in order to avoid overloading
the inexperienced implementation capacity, most of the project's activities would be implemented on an
oblast-based phasing. Under this approach, implementation in the first year would be concentrated in
Naryn and Talas oblasts, to be followed by one or two more oblasts each subsequent year until all oblasts
have been covered. Second, the project's annual work plans and budgets would be reviewed and
adjusted, on the basis of the previous year's implementation performance and experience, at a meeting
involving MAF, implementing agencies, the Bank and IFAD three months before the beginning of the
ensuing project year. It was agreed at negotiations that the Borrower would ensure that the review and
adjustment would take place every year during project implementation as stipulated. Third, the
implementation of the sheep breeders' association and wool and lamb marketing components would be
done by the same contractor to ensure appropriate sequencing between these closely related components.
Fourth, the project would focus on promoting the production of both lamb and wool to introduce more
flexibility in enterprise combination (product mix) at farm level than at present. Fifth, to ensure
beneficiary participation, the project's technical packages and priorities, to be generated by the training
and advisory services in conjunction with the sheep breeding research, would be determined by the
responses to market signals by the final beneficiaries (sheep producers) rather than by extension and
research officials.  Lastly, in order to increase participation in project implementation by final
beneficiaries, a Project Implementation Council with significant beneficiary representatives has been
established to approve project annual plan and budgets.
Project Management
5.2    Given the variety of activities to be implemented, the wide range of institutions and agencies
involved in the Project, the limited experience of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the
implementation of externally funded projects, and the need to provide on-the-job training to Kyrgyz
experts, an independent Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be contracted by MAF to execute the
project. The PIU would have sufficient autonomy to: (a) recruit highly qualified staff and pay
competitive salaries; (b) coordinate the implementation of the Project; (c) open and operate accounts in
local and foreign currencies; and (d) select and supervise consultants to implement project activities. The
PIU would sub-contract various agencies, local or foreign, in Kyrgyz andlor overseas, with the
implementation of some of the project's components, under contracts approved by IDA.
5.3   The two PIU expatriate staff would be assisted by four national counterparts, recruited in open
competition (para. 3.26). Government officials who would like to compete for these positions would have
to resign from Government service. All Kyrgyz staff would be recruited locally and paid locally
competitive salaries. Agreement on the establishment of the PIU and on the hiring of a management
consulting firm was obtained before negotianons.



- 37 -
Project Implementation Plan
5.4   The project implementation plan is fully described in Annex C and the staffing of the
implementing agencies is described in the detailed project description. The following project
implementation plan summarizes the contractual relationship between the PIU and the individual
implementing agencies of the various project components or activities. The PIU would review and
approve all annual workplans and budgets prepared by the sub-contractors. Such workplans and budgets
would constitute informal contracts between the PIU and the individual sub-contractors (implementing
agencies).
(a)    Sheep Private Sector Development would be sub-contracted by the PIU to an
international NGO/consultant to implement the SPGAs, KSBA, and wool marketing
activities. The contractor would employ its own international and local specialists;
(b)    Technical and Management Advisory Services would be sub-contracted by the PIU to
DLMD for implementation. DLMD would be assisted by an expatriate Director of
Extension, employed by the PIU, in managing ATAS. DLMD would implement ATAS
on the basis of annual work plans and budgets approved by PIU;
(c)    Animal Health Services would be sub-contracted by the PIU to the Directorate of
Veterinary Services(DVS), who would enlist the cooperation of the oblast administrations
in which brucellosis eradication would be initiated. The PIU would employ a Senior
Livestock Advisor to assist the Director of DVS in implementing the activities under this
sub-component;
(d)    Sheep Breeding Research would be sub-contracted by the PIU to Asyl-Mal and a few
selected private sheep breeding farms. The PIU would employ an Animal Breeder, a
Reproduction Specialist, and an Animal Nutritionist to assist Asyl-Mal and the
participating private farms. The procurement of genetic material (rams or semen) would
be done by the PIU through ICB and would be distributed to the participating breeding
farms; and
(e)    Pastures and Fodder Improvement would be sub-contracted by the PIU to the State
Scientific Center of Land Resources and Use (SSCLRU) and the Scientific Industrial
Enterprise (SIE). SSCLRU would implement the pasture monitoring and evaluation
activity and SIE would implement the research on controlled grazing and pasture
rehabilitation and research on improved fodder harvesting and conservation. Consultants
associated with these activities would be recruited by the PIU.
Beneficiary and NGO Participation
5.5    At the grassroots level, participation of beneficiaries, particularly those of members of SPGAs,
would be promoted by the NGOs employed to implement the SPED component. In addition, the project
would aim, to the extent possible, at transferring the management of wool marketing and control activities
to the SPGAs and RSBAs. Direct involvement of Government agencies in undertaking activities suited
for the private sector would be avoided. For this purpose, the bulk of brucellosis testing would be
carried out by private veterinarians who would be contracted through local competitive bidding.
Furthermore, beneficiaries will have representation in the Project Implementation council.



- 38 -
5.6    Acting through their associations, sheep producers would participate in the annual reviews and
adjustments of the annual work plans and budgets at rayon, oblast and national level. In this way, sheep
producers would participate in determining the priorities of the key project components, particularly those
relating to ATAS and sheep breeding research. These two critical components would therefore reflect
the producers' responses to market signals. In this sense, their design and implementation would be
market driven.
5.7   To ensure beneficiaries participate fully in the selection, location, design and implementation of
project activities, NGOs contracted to implement specific project activities would work through local
beneficiary groups, especially SPGAs after they have been established. Because these SPGAs are non-
existent, NGOs would be engaged to establish them, and evolve methods for their effective participation.
The NGOs would also provide support to SPGAs in organizing input supply, wool marketing, credit, and
develop training for members. NGOs are expected to hold meetings with interested beneficiary groups
to ascertain their needs and desire to establish SPGAs in their localities.
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
5.8    The project is designed as a rolling program with annual work plans and budgets phased in to
cover all activities over the implementation period. Achieving implementation efficiency, high quality
works, cost-effectiveness, and beneficiary participation are some of the project's major themes. The
Annual Work Plan would include: (a) implementation details and expenditures for project activities during
the year; (b) implementation plan and budget for project activities for the following years; (c) designs,
drawings, specifications and bidding documents for regional wool stores and the WMC physical
infrastructure; (d) SPGAs, RSBAs and farmers' training programs; and (e) Memoranda of Agreements
between implementing NGOs and SPGAs and RSBAs in the selection, location, and design of local and
regional stores.
5.9    The project annual work plan, procurement plan and civil works plan, besides the project legal
documents, would serve as the main framework for project implementation. Confirmation of preparation
of a work plan and budget for 1997 to include project activities to be implemented in the first year of the
project, satisfactory to IDA/IFAD, was a condition of Board Presentation and has been met by the
Government.
Project Supervision
5.10   Project supervision would be closely linked to the project objectives and the annual
implementation plans. It would involve monitoring a number of key indicators (Annex D) and assessing
both quality and quantity aspects of project implementation and impact. Heads of implementing agencies
would supervise component or activity implementation and provide guidance. In addition, PIU would
oversee supervision of project activities to assess field implementation progress and problems,
involvement of beneficiaries and impact. IDA and IFAD would normally field at least three supervision
missions every year to focus primarily on key implementation issues, sort out problems, assess benefits
and draw lessons, and provide advice to implementing agencies. The first IDA/IFAD mission would
include a project launch workshop to provide orientation and training for key staff in implementing
agencies on the project cycle, procurement and disbursement procedures, accounting and auditing
requirements. Nevertheless, full responsibility for project supervision would rest with implementing
agencies and PIU. Proposed experts on supervision missions are presented in Annex E.



- 39 -
Implementation Completion Report
5.11   An implementation completion report would be prepared by the PIU on the basis of Bank's
guidelines no later than six months after the Closing Date of the credit. The report would highlight
problems and successes experienced during implementation, both physical and financial and assess the
impact of the project to determine whether the project objectives were achieved.



- 40 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Project Benefits
6.1    The Project would generate substantial economic and financial benefits.  Benefits include
increased wool and lamb production, increased wool and lamb prices. In addition, the Project would
contribute to sustainable management of the country's pasture resources and would reduce the incidence
of brucellosis among humans. More importantly, the Project would contribute to the emergence of a
more efficient sheep farming sector which will contribute to reduction in rural poverty in the long run.
This will be done through the provision of critical support services and financial support for the
establishment of farmers' grassroots organizations. The project's training and technical assistance would
have favorable capacity-building effects that would be critical to the management of the sector's transition
in the medium and long-term.
6.2    The provision of Livestock Support Services, through ATAS, would be critical in: (i) realizing
the genetic potential of the existing fine-wool merino sheep and the new improved dual purpose sheep
breeds (production effect); and (ii) improving the quality of wool and lamb (price effect). The production
effect would consist of increased lamb and wool production.  The price effect would consist of
incremental value of wool and lamb as a result of entry on the international markets, increase in quality
of wool and lamb, and product differentiation. Both effects are detailed in Tables 6.1 a-d and are
summarized in Table 6. 1. As indicated in Table 6.1 by the "with" and "without" scenarios, the project
is assumed to have no major impact on the overall size of the national flock. It would, however,
substantially alter the flock structure and composition and improve the flock's productivity and quality
in terms of both lamb offtake rate and wool production. The bulk of lamb production would be for
export (para. 3.17).
6.3    The provision of Animal Health Services would be associated with benefits accruing from the
control or eradication of brucellosis in both animals and humans. These include decrease in human illness
and decreased reproduction losses in sheep. The former benefits are difficult to estimate. Reduced
reproduction losses would result in improved lambing and a corresponding increase in lamb offtake as
detailed in tables 6.1 a-d. Since it is not possible to isolate the impact of animal health services from that
of livestock support services, the parameters underlying the production effects (Table 6.1) assume
effective control of brucellosis and other diseases.
6.4    Sheep breeding and research support would enhance the genetic potential of the existing fine-wool
merino sheep through the introduction of new genetic material for developing a breed capable of
optimizing wool and lamb production in the country. It is estimated that an increase of about a kilo of
greasy fleece per head would become a permanent feature of sheep production after ten years. In
addition, the average weight of lambs would increase by almost 50 percent. Pasture monitoring,
complemented by ATAS advisory services, would enable sheep producers and rangeland supervisors to
avoid localized overstocking and pasture degradation.  Improved pasture management and fodder
production would reduce the pressure on natural pastures. More importantly, it would enable sheep
producers to replace high cost concentrates with long-term low cost pastures and thereby substantially
improve the profitability of sheep farrning ( Table 6.1 a-d). However, the short-term costs of improved
management of natural pastures would be higher than the cost of concentrates, but these are expected to
substantially decline after the initial investment have been made. This decline has not been reflected in
the economic justification of the project because it is not possible to reflect such changes within the
framework of the gross margin models upon which the calculation of the project's rate of return is based.



- 41 -
6.5    The development of sheep and wool private enterprises, consisting of the establishment of the
SPGAs, RSBAs, KSBA, and the WMC, would enable sheep and wool producers to respond appropriately
to international market signals. This would improve the efficiency of the domestic marketing system for
lamb and wool. Wool testing would enable KSBA to use product differentiation as a major pricing policy
instrument to obtain premium prices on the greasy wool international market. Certification of Kyrgyz
wool would enhance international buyers' confidence and minimize market risks and transaction costs,
leading to increased producer prices and exports.
Farmers' Financial Returns
6.6   The beneficiaries of the Project would be private participating farm enterprises. Eventually, the
project would benefit all sheep producers in one way or another. At full development, the Project would
benefit approximately 14,000 households grouped into about 3600 farm units, which would employ
approximately 37,367 persons who provide for a further 112,000 family members. These persons would
receive an estimated additional net income of US$25.0 million per year under the project. By co-
incidence this group is among the less well off and are located generally in remote regions and
mountainous areas that are not well suited to other activities. The project would therefore contribute
significantly to rural poverty alleviation.
6.7    Gross margins per livestock unit, as proxy indicators of farm enterprise profitability, have been
estimated for three types of farm models, based on sheep breed (Tables 6.1 a-d). These consist of the
three breeds currently found in the country: (i) Alai/Fat-tailed Sheep for meat production; (ii) Kyrgyz
Fine-Wool Sheep for fine wool production; and (iii) a new Kyrgyz Dual Purpose sheep to optimize lamb
and wool production.
6.8   The following major assumptions underlie the calculation of the annual gross margins: (a) 2000
head units per farm; (b) an exchange rate of Som 10.5 per US dollar; (c) value of skins is not included
in calculation; (d) Kyrgyz wool price = 70 percent of Australia wool price (clean) in 1995 for "with
project" case; 50 percent of world wool market prices for "without project" case; and (e) meat prices
are projected at 40 percent of current Middle East and European market prices and assumed held constant
over the project period.
6.9    Based on the above assumptions, the following annual gross margin per livestock unit were
estimated (Tables 6. la-6. Id):
Farm Model             With Project (USS)   Without Proiect (US$)
Alai/Fat-tailed Sheep         n.a.                1.78
Kyrgyz Fine-Wool Sheep        5.98                3.20
Dual Purpose Sheep            5.59                n.a.
6.10  It is evident from the "without project" case that sheep production under the current marketing
conditions in the country is only marginally profitable. With the project, sheep production in general
would be extremely profitable. The project would have impact on lamb and fine wool production by
promoting the adoption of an improved Kyrgyz Fine Wool breed and an improved dual purpose sheep
breed. These two breeds would eventually outperform the Alai breed. Essentially, all sheep enterprises
would benefit from the improved marketing and prices, improved lamb offtake and productivity associated
with the Project. Cash outlays for the adoption of the new technical packages at the farm enterprise level
would range between 53 and 74 soms per animal and might not require external financing or credit
(Tables 6.1 a-d). They constitute about 30 percent of total variable costs, a higher percentage of which
is accounted by non-cash inputs, such as family labor and natural pastures.



- 42 -
KSBA Financial Projections
6.11   KSBA, once established, would operate the wool marketing center, testing, and information
center. Each of these activities would be operated as a profit center, maintaining separate books of
accounts in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles and following the accrual system
of accounting. The major sources of revenue associated with these operations would be warehouse fees,
lot building fees, broker's fees, promotion charges, and wool testing markups. Warehousing fees would
be paid by wool sellers for holding wool in the central store for obtaining core and grab samples and for
storing the wool up to two weeks after selling or auctioning. Buyers would be charged a storage fee on
wool held in store beyond the standard two weeks after sale. A lot building fee would be levied on small
lots that require to be amalgamated to form a standard lot of one ton for sample testing and sale. Brokers
would be charged a fee of I percent of gross sale proceeds to be paid by producers. Producers would
also be charged a promotion fee of 1 percent on gross sale proceeds to cover promotion and wool
marketing center expenses. A 33 percent markup would be imposed by KSBA on wool testing (local and
foreign).
6.12   No revenue other than testing fees is expected in the first year .of operation. KSBA's financial
projections relating to marketing, testing, and information operations are presented in Tables 6.7 to 6.9.
The projections show that these operations would be highly profitable, except in the first year of
operation. The operations would also generate sufficient internal funds for expansion after the third year
of operation. KSBA, as a profit center by itself, would rely on membership fees and member annual
contributions, both of which would be set at reasonably low levels. It would make losses in the first three
years of operation and thereafter make modest profits. Such losses would, however, be compensated by
profits from the other commercial operations under KSBA beginning with the second year of operation.
KSBA's consolidated financial projections indicate a healthy financial situation for the organization.
Nevertheless, the importance of competent management to KSBA's future financial situation cannot be
over emphasized.
Economic Benefits and Costs
6.13   The project's private benefits and costs have been derived from the annual gross margin models
(Tables 6. la-d). Using a standard conversion factor of one (reflecting the current equilibrium exchange
rate of the som), the models' financial private costs and sales values were converted into border economic
values. Fixed project costs consist of public expenditures by the Government and producers' associations
for implementing the project. Direct economic benefits of the project, over a 20 year period, would
consist of the value of incremental wool and meat production and increase in lamb and wool prices,
resulting from the provision of support services, animal health services, sheep breeding research, and
establishment of a new marketing system for lamb and wool. The new marketing system would facilitate
entry onto the international markets for Kyrgyz lamb and wool and permit these products to fetch prices
obtaining in these markets..
6.14   Project costs are into two categories: public and private costs. The former consist of all
incremental expenditures related to project implementation by the Government or producers' associations.
Private costs are those project-related incremental expenditures made at the farm level, including costs
of production, marketing, and transportation. The opportunity cost of producers' participation in
associations would be negligible and difficult to quantify. Although some project expenditures, for
example, most of the costs for the establishment of SPGAs, RSBAs, KSBA and ATAS, have long-term
institution-building effects and, hence, have economy-wide externalities, they have been treated as direct
project costs. This, of course, leads to understating the project's rate of return.



- 43 -
6.15   The "without" project scenario underlying the economic analysis postulates that the existing
Kyrgyz fine-wool breed, supplemented by the Alai breed, would continue to dominate the national flock.
However, both breeds would not reach their genetic potential in terms of productivity and production
quality because of relatively poor husbandry at the farm level. The sheep industry's access to world
markets would continue to be constrained by inadequate marketing infrastructure and poor quality of
products. Product prices would therefore increase very slowly and might never be at parity with world
market prices. Wool exports would continue to be the major source of foreign exchange earnings for the
industry. The "with" project scenario, on the other hand, would consist of the following changes: (a)
the improved Kyrgyz fine-wool breed, supplemented by the introduction of a dual purpose breed, would
dominate the national flock and largely replace the other existing breeds after eight years of project
implementation; (b) the structural change in the national flock would gradually lead to lamb exports being
the major source of foreign exchange earnings, leaving wool exports to play a secondary role in the
sheep industry; (c) the sheep industry's access to world market for lamb and wool would substantially
improve as a result of improved marketing infrastructure and product quality, leading to increased product
prices which might be at parity with world market prices; (d) animal productivity and quality would
considerably increase as a result of improved animal husbandry and nutrition at the farm level and in
response to incentives embedded in the new marketing system for both lamb and wool; and (e) despite
the increased lamb and wool production for export under the project, the Kyrgyz Republic would remain
a small producer and price taker in the context of the world markets for both products.
6.16  In view of the above scenarios, the key assumptions used to estimate the project's economic rate
of return include (a) adoption of the new sheep technology would be completed in 8 years of project
implementation; (b) lamb prices are conservatively projected at 55 percent of current Middle East and
European market prices and held constant in real terms; (c) fine wool prices are conservatively projected
at 50 percent of current world market prices and which are expected to rise to 70 percent over the next
five years; and (d) the establishment of 150 producers' associations over the life of the project.
6.17   Under these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return was estimated at 57 percent. This
high return reflects, to a large extent, the high opportunity cost of the existing market distortions which
have depressed both prices and quality production in the industry. At the same time, it underscores the
need for structural reforms and price incentives to stimulate the adoption of productivity-enhancing
technology in the industry through the project.
Impact on Women
6.18   Women in the Kyrgyz Republic play a major role in agriculture, including sheep and wool
production. They appear eager to participate in new income-generating activities, but they lack resources
and technical knowledge. Most of the existing local NGOs' activities are largely directed toward welfare.
The proposed project would reverse this trend by actively involving women in project activities, including
extension service and credit.
6.19   Women's daily work routine depends largely on the structure of the household's flock. Since ex-
state/collective farm sheep flocks are distributed on per capita basis within a household or family, all
women own sheep, although they usually regard this as a joint household asset. They normally reserve
the poor quality wool for felt and rug making. Overall improvement in wool quality would therefore lead
to upgrading of the quality of these products. To ensure that women participate actively in the
implementation of project activities, a position for a women's advisor would be created at oblast level
within the ATAS. This advisor would ensure that the project provides women with appropriate training
in awareness of their role and benefits, organization and management and technical skills.



- 44 -
Impact on Poverty
6.20   The majority of private sheep producers are found in remote mountainous areas of Naryn, Talas,
and Issyk-Kul. They have virtually no alternative economic activities. They constitute the poorest of the
rural poor in the country. Until recently their incomes were further depressed by Government export
taxes on wool, hides and skins and by the virtual collapse of the traditional domestic marketing system
for wool. The recent removal of export taxes and improvements in the domestic wool marketing system
will have considerable impact on raising the incomes of these farmers. Sheep and wool productivity gains
under the project would also result in improving their incomes. At full project development, about
14,000 households, owning a total of 7.2 million sheep, would benefit from an incremental income under
the project of about 155 percent.
Sustainability
6.21   Once completed, project activities would be sustained. Incremental staffing and associated
recurrent costs would gradually be transferred to the beneficiaries through the farmers' associations that
would be promoted and established under the project. The improved policy environment, especially for
production and marketing, and the productivity gains, would provide financial incentives for farmers'
organizations to consolidate and expand their newly acquired assets or activities. Sheep and pasture
research and disease control activities would be the only project activities that would continue to be
financed by the government budget after project completion. These would be kept within manageable
limits and could be partially financed by the sheep industry through a levy.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
6.22   The impact of incremental recurrent expenditures on the government budget for agriculture would
be small. The total incremental recurrent expenditures per year would average US$622,000 per year over
the implementation period, with ATAS, sheep breeding research, KSBA, and wool testing component
accounting for the largest share. It is estimated that the Government would disburse US$1.7 million of
the operating costs. IDA and IFAD will provide the balance of US$ 1.6 million out of total US$3.3
million. About 55 percent of the total incremental recurrent expenditures would be transferred to the
sheep producers associations by the fifth year of project implementation. Recurrent expenditures for
sheep and pasture research, disease control activities and overall project management would be the only
ones that would continue to be financed by the government budget after project completion. Most of the
KSBA's commercial activities (e.g. marketing and wool testing) would become self-financing in the third
year of implementation.
6.23   The project would also institute full cost recovery for Credit funds on-lent for training, technical
assistance, operating expenses, goods and civil works to sheep producers' associations through charging
an interest rate that fully reflects the market cost of such funds. It is envisaged that the producers'
associations would become financially independent by generating adequate operating revenues from
membership dues, wool storage, and marketing fees which would be set at levels to allow full cost
recovery. The gradual transfer of extension services and wool and lamb marketing activities to
producers' associations are envisaged as an effective strategy for cost recovery under the project.
Impact on Private Sector Development
6.24   The major thrust of the proposed project is to transform the sheep industry from a centrally
planned and government-controlled industry into an export-oriented and efficient production system
largely managed and controlled by producers. This empowerment of private producers would take place



- 45 -
through the formation of village-based producers' associations and establishment of private enterprises.
This would entrust the critical elements of project implementation in the hands of profit seeking
enterprises. The associations would play an important role by taking over most of those tasks the state
can no longer effectively perform. The proposed project would support the establishment of sheep
producers' associations to initially address four critical issues in sheep production and marketing,
including the development of an efficient export-marketing infrastructure for lamb and wool; provision
of advisory services (know how) to individual private sheep producers; management of common pastures
on a sustainable basis; and control of unregulated sheep breeding and adoption of improved technologies
among small private producers. These tasks would be implemented by the associations with technical
support provided by government agencies and technical assistance. Within the framework of these
grassroots associations, producers would continually respond appropriately to market signals in terms of
product mix and quality. The project would also support the privatization of certain services which
traditionally have been the domain of the state, including veterinary services by encouraging private
practice by veterinarians, and sheep breeding by encouraging private sheep breeders to participate in the
sheep breeding program under the project.
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
6.25   A risk for the project is that the international and domestic prices of lamb and wool do not turn
out to be as high as projected.  In the event of this happening, the incentives for adoption of new
technology, increased productivity and improved lamb offtake would not materialize. If the assumed
prices for Kyrgyz wool declined by 15 percent (i.e., were only 55 percent of the assumed world market
prices), the project's rate of return would be reduced to 49 percent. If, on the other hand, prices for
lamb declined by 10 percent, the project's rate of return would fall to 36 percent. A 15 percent overall
reduction in project benefits would reduce the rate of return to 34 percent. A slower rate of adoption of
new technology and full conversion after nine years would reduce the rate of return to 36 percent. The
project's viability is therefore extremely sensitive to product prices (especially lamb prices) and adoption
rate and, hence, to the quality of lamb and wool which would determine the level of prices to be obtained
in the international markets. A 10 percent cost overrun would reduce the rate to 44 percent, implying
the project might be sensitive to increase in the incremental operating costs at the farm level.
6.26   The success of the project is also dependent on the ability to export meat to foreign markets.
There is a large and accessible Middle Eastern market and the expectation is that live animals will be
transported by air or truck and that major investments in transport will not be necessary. The project
conservatively assumes that domestic lamb prices will remain only 55 percent of Middle Eastern and
European prices; this margin should be sufficient to allow for the export of Kyrgyz meat.
6.27   Due to the transition, the project has high risks. The project could be adversely affected by an
array of factors, including: (i) macroeconomic instability; (ii) delays in implementation of reforms
pertaining to land, market liberalization, and enterprise privatization; (iii) institutional uncertainty and
weakness surrounding the establishment of new farmers' organizations and a new farmer's advisory
service; and (iv) delays in implementation of the Project. The prospects for macroeconomic stability
appear good, given Government's commitment to both the stabilization and structural reform programs
(paras. 1.6-1.11). Implementation of land reform and market liberalization and enterprise privatization
would be key to the success of the project. Government's commitment to reforms in agriculture is
strong, but remains to be translated into actions. The price and land reforms are now well advanced and
would be difficult to reverse at this point. The project's risks associated with delays in establishing the
new farmers' organization and advisory service would be minimized by requiring up front appointments
of the PIU consultants and agreements on their establishment, staffing, and funding of ATAS.



- 46 -
6.28   Another factor is the local capacity to cope with the demands of a range of new functions in the
marketing, distribution, testing, and research of wool. Many of these functions are foreign to the existing
personnel. A strong technical component has been incorporated in the project design to overcome this
weakness. Regular supervision would also be required for several years. While there is a clear
leadership role for Government to initially promote the formation of these new organizations, it is
envisaged that they would ultimately be controlled by farmers. Specific risks exist in terms of sharp
deterioration in greasy wool production and quality, themselves a consequence of the deficiencies the
project seeks to correct. In the short term, however, these risks might result in unused capacity of the
new facilities. But contingency plans can be devised to cope with this situation. For instance, the wool
storage, handling, and selling complex could be used for skins and hides when it is not fully used by
wool. The wool testing facility could be used for research when not fully utilized for commercial testing.
The envisaged annual reviews and adjustments in project workplans and budgets to take into consideration
previous year's implementation experience would minimize risks associated with project implementation
and permit continual flexibility in implementation. Intensive supervision would also be required in the
initial years.
Enviromnental Aspects
6.29   The Project is expected to increase enviromnental protection through research and extension
activities focusing on improved management of the country's natural pastures. The establishment of a
pasture inventory and monitoring system would guide farmers' and rangeland supervisors' decisions
regarding the use of pastures in the short to medium-term. This, complemented by ATAS advisory
services, would result in avoiding localized overstocking and pasture degradation. The proposed
improvement in pasture management and fodder production would reduce the pressure on natural
resources. It would be required, under the project, that grazing rights be granted for land management
units large enough to support sustainable grazing systems (para. 3.52). The producers' associations, to
whom most of the grazing rights would be granted, would be required to adhere and enforce regulations
and practices for improved pasture management among their members (para. 3.52). Finally, the project's
emphasis on the production of quality animals (rather than quantity) in response to market requirements,
would provide adequate incentives for improved management of pastures and fodder by sheep producers.
The project would discourage the present practice of using chemical for sheep dipping and, instead, rely
on spot-spraying on animals.  The Project has a "B" environmental assessment category.  An
environmental mitigation statement is contained in Annex B.



- 47 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
The following agreements were reached during negotiations
7.1    During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would:
(a)    ensure that sheep producers' associations shall be granted, on a leasing basis, grazing
rights without prejudice to other users of pastures, whether individually or collectively
organized (para. 3.7);
(b)    include, inter alia, provisions in respect of staffing of the PIU with qualified individuals
in sufficient number, and the management responsibilities to be carried out in accordance
with a project operational manual: such manual to be attached to the PIU Management
Agreement and to constitute an integral part thereof (para. 3.8);
(c)    transfer formally the ownership and management of the wool testing facility to the
Livestock Institute by December 31, 1996 (para 3.22);
(d)    establish the position of a female Women's Advisor at the beginning of implementing
ATAS each oblast (para. 3.28);
(e)    ensure that the breeding stock at and ownership of the Asyl Mal farms participating in
the project's breeding program would not be substantially changed without consulting
IDA and IFAD (para. 3.44);
(f)    ensure that grazing rights leased by the Borrower to sheep producers' associations and
other users shall be for land management units large enough to support sustainable
grazing system in respect of the respective size of the sheep management units; and the
lease contracts and administrative acts relating to the granting of grazing rights shall
include adequate provisions stipulating grazing regulations and practices designed to
establish good pasture management practices, and shall be duly implemented (para. 3.53);
(g)    on-lend Credit funds for goods and civil works to producers' associations and their
affiliates as a loan at the full cost recovery basis to be denominated in Som (para 4.4);
and
(h)    ensure that the review and adjustment of the project would take place every year during
project implementation (para. 5.1).
Conditions of effectiveness
7.2   It was agreed that the following will be the conditions of effectiveness for the IDA Credit and
IFAD Loan in addition to those in the respective general conditions:
(a)   the execution of the PIU Management Agreement with an international consulting firm,
satisfactory to the Association (para 3.26);



- 48 -
(b)   that fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the IFAD Loan and the IDA Credit (para.
4.3); and
(c)   the Borrower will deposit the Som equivalent of US$25,000 into the Project Account.
It was agreed that the Borrower will ensure provision of adequate funds for the project
in its Budget for 1996, including the above mentioned amount.
Condition of disbursement
7.3    Borrower shall provide the Association with a satisfactory feasibility study relating to the local
production of veterinary vaccines (para 3.40).
Recommendation
7.4.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and reconmmend that the Executive Directors approve it.



- 49 -
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIL ANALYSis SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 6.1:    Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Computation
Table 6. la:   Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Improved Kyrgyz Fine Wool (with project)
Table 6. lb:   Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Kyrgyz Fine Wool (without project)
Table 6. lc:   Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Kyrgyz Dual Purpose Sheep Breed (with project)
Table 6. Id:   Sheep Enterprise Gross Margin Models: Alai Strong Wool and Fat-tailed Meat Sheep
(without project)
Table 6.2:    Kyrgyz Wool Marketing, Testing and Information Center - Profit and Loss Account
Table 6.3:    Kyrgyz Wool Marketing, Testing and Information Center - Balance Sheet
Table 6.4:    Kyrgyz Wool Marketing, Testing and Information Center - Funds Flow Statement
Table 6.5:    Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association - Profit and Loss Account
Table 6.6:    Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association - Balance Sheet
Table 6.7:    Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders' Association - Funds Flow Statement



- 50 -
Tble 6.1: Initemal Rae of Return (IRR) Compurtston
W7h Prq.ot        _                         _                                ___
1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8       9        10   11-20
Fleck Size (000)  __
KFW    5500    5000    3506    2479    1945    1454    1015        633        O 0                O
IKFW  ___0 __0            500    1000    1500    2000    2500    3000    3516        3516     35191
DPS       0        0     500    1000    1500    2000    2500    3000    3510        3516     36161
AMi     200     158      158     159     159      158     159     159      158      159       159
Total   5700    5158    4464    4837    5103    5612    8173    8791    7190         7190     7190
Farm units
KFW    2750    2500    1753    1240       973      727     508     317        0        0         0
IKFW       0        0     250     500      750    1000    1250    1500    1758       1758      1758
OPS_       0       0     250     500      750    1000    1250    1500    1758       1 758 1758
Abli    100      791      79 _   79        79      79      79      79       79        79       79
Total   2850    2579    2332    2319    2552    2906    3087    3396    3595         3505     3595
No. of Shnm  SU fer mn (1000)1      _
KFW     1917    1743    1222    I84       678     507      354     221        0        a         0
IKFW       0        0     330     675    1013    1350    1689    2025    2373        2373     2373
DPS       0        0     367     734    1101    1408    1835    2202    2581        2581     2581
Alai    121      96       96      96          86       96      9 969   6              96       96
Total   2039    1939    2022    23691  2987    3421    39721  4844    5050           5050     5050
Pirc of Motkg 11                                  I
KFW      0.8     0.9      0.9     0.8      0.8     0.9     0.8      0.8     0.9       0.8      0.8
IKFW      0.8     0.9     0.9      0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8     0.9       0.81      0.8
OPS      0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8      0.9     0.8     0.8     0.9       0.8       0.8
Alai    0.96    0.80   0.96    0.96    0.86    0.96    0.86    0.86    0.96         0.se1    0.88
Volve of Mast 21  (US mginl                                        I                        I                  I
KFW    35.08   31.99   22.36   15.81   12.41    9.27    6.47    4.04 O.DO0.00                 0.00
IKFW     0.00    0.00    9.79   17.57   20.36   35.14   43.93   52.71   61.78       81!L       1.78
DPS     0.00    0.00    9.81   19.211  2.82   343   48.03   57.84   67.55          67.55     87.5
Ala    3.25    2.571   2.5      2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57        2.57     2.S7
Totalvaluofmost   38.33   34.48   43.32   55.16   70.15   85.41  101.00  116.96  131.90    131.90    131.90
Wool (too)
KFW   10560    9600    6732    470    3734    27921   1948    1215           0 1       0         0_
IKFW       0  -   0    1189    2379    3589    47571   5948.  7138    8363           8363     8363
|PS   a_           0     795    1591    2389   3191    3976    4772    5592        5592      5592
Akl     314     248 248          2481   248       248     248     248     248       24        248
Total  10874    9848    664    9977    9836   10978   12120  13371   14203    14203    14203
Wool PriciA  31   ___              __I
KFW     1.40    1.40    1.70    1.90    2.40    280    3.00    3.00    3.00         3.00      3.00
IKFW     1.40    1.40    1.0    1.90    2.40    2.80    3.00    3.00    3.           3.00      3.00
OPS    1.40    1.40    1.70    1.90    2.40    2.80    3.00    3.00    3.00         3.00      3.00
Al|i    0.80    0.70    0.80    0.90    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00        1.00     1.00
Value of WOl (U   moIIen)   !I
KFW    14.78   13.44   11.44    9.041   8.96    7.92    5.85    3.85    0.00        0.00      0.00
IKFW    O0    0.001   2.02    4.521   8.56   13.32   17.84   21.41   25.09         25.09     25.09
DPSI   0.00    0.00      1.35    3.02    5.73    9.91    11.93   14.31   16.79     16.78     16.78
Alil   0.19    0.17    0.20    0.22    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25         0.25     0.25
Total valu of wool   14.97   13.61   15.02   16.91   23.50   30.291  35.86   39.62   42.11     42.11    42.11
--M            --am 481463j3.8j2.   Mr.71  17.091  12.32l -7.86 - .0m               0.0Ol    0.00
IFW                0    10Q1   22.00   34.92   U.4I  e1.0 6671a.86                   S8.861   86.86
oPSi   0.0    Q.00   10.0    22.24 j  34.5S   47.33   s9.98   7t1.i    84.33    94.331   84.33
I            Xil   3.44    2.         2.7 371    2.7sl    2. 11        2.82    2.82  si2         2.82      2.82
r.wsin-e*       53.30   48.07   59.34   71.97   93.65  115.70  136.86  158.57  174.01    174.01   174.01
(meat  * wool                    _        _                                                __I I_I I_
VA*    cost      (US$ mibal                                 _____                              __
KFW    49.05   44.5aj  31.26   22.111  17.34   12.97    9.051   5.64    0.00        0.00      0.00
IKFW     0.00    0.00    9.40   18.90   29.20   37.60   48.991  58.39   66.091   69.09 o s .os
DPS    0.00    0.00    9.10   19.20   27.30   36.40   48.50   54.60   63.99        63.99    63.99
Alai    3.21    z2.541    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54             2.54      2.54
Flix Pre  Coat      5.6     3.9      3.5     2.2      1.7      0        0       0o    0           0      0 
TrealeCet           57.66   50S2J  55.90   63.84   77.07   89.48  104.08  119.17  132.61    132.61   132.61
_tA_     w__      4.55    25    2.54    8.13   16.57   26.21   32.79   37.40   41.40             41.40    41.40
F          E       r1   -  F          I       1     9 -      l        
11 Lamb pnc are about  % of Middle Eato and Euep.n rmnaket pnrcu fer amb.
21 Totael  e  fom  tab e       tat mh e   mod  thi  number of farm unhL 7s
3IFito wool pd ei pfices about 60% of eurramt wotid maiket prines which are oxpacted to rue through ths nai  five ears.



- 51 -
Table 6.1: Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Computation
Without Project |
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10 11-20
Rock Size
KFW    5500   5000   4506   4479   4945   5454   6015   6633   7032            7032     7032
Alai    200    158    158    158    158    158    158    158    158             158      158
Total   5700   5158   4664   4637   5103   5612   6173   6791   7190            7190     7190
Farm Units
KFW    2750   2500   2253   2240   2473   2727   3008   3317   3516            3516     3516
Alai    100      79     79      79      79      79      79      79     79        79       79
Total   2850   2579   2332   2319   2552   2806   3087   3396   3595            3595     3595
No. of sheep sold
KFW    1917   1743   1570   1561,  1723   1901   2096   2312   2451            2451     2451
Alai    121     96      96      96      96      96      96      96     96        96       96
Total   2038   1838   1666   1657   1819   1997   2192   2408   2547            2547     2547
Price of Meatikg
KFW     0.84    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64     0.64
Alai   0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69     0.89
Value of Meat   (USt million)
KFW    35.081  31.89   28.74   28.57   31.54   34.79   38.36   42.31   44.85    44.85    44.85
Alai   3.25    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57    2.57     2.57
Total value of meat   38.33   34A6   31.31   31.14   34.11   37.35   40.93   44.87   47.42    47.42    47.42
Wool Iton)                                      I
KFW   10560   9600   8652   8600   9494   10472  11549  12735  13501    13501    13501
Alai    318    251    251    251    251    251    251    251    251             251      251
Total  10878   9851    8903   8851    9746  10723  11800   12987  13753    13753    13753
Wool Pricelkg 11   |                     _
KFW     1.40    1.40    1.70    1.90_   1.95    2.10    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50     2.50
Alai   0.60    0.70    0.80    0.90    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Value of Wool us Mallion)                        I_     r
KFW    14.781  13.44   14.71   16.34   18.51   21.99   28.87   31.84   33.75    33.75    33.75
Alai   0.19    0.18    0.20    0.23    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25     0.25
Total value of wool   14.97   13.62   14.91   1857   18.77   22.24   29.12   32.09   34.00    34.00    34.00
Total Revenue   53.30   48.07   46.22   47.70   52.87   59.60   70.06   76.96   81.42    81.42    81.42
(meat plus wool)
Variable Cost   (lSt million)
KFW   49.05   44.59   40.18   39.94   44.10   48.64   53.64   59.15   62.71    62.71    62.71
Alai   3.21    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54    2.54     2.54
Total               52.28   47.12   42.72   42.48   46.63   51.17   56.17   61.68   65.24    65.24    65.24
Alf tlReven          1.05    0.95    3.50    5.22    624    8.42   13.88   15.28   16.18    16.18    16.18
Incrumntal Benefit  0.00    0.00   12.12   24.27   40.78   56.10   65.81   79.61   92.59    92.59    92.59
Incrmental Cost     5.60    3.80   13.08   21.36   30.44   38.32   47.90   57.48   67.37    67.37    67.37
Net Benefit        .5.60   .3.80   .0.96    2.91   10.33   17.78   18.91   22.13   25.22    25.22    25.22
Internal Rate of Return  20 yrs     57%
11 Asuumes, in absence of project, that domestic prhce of fine wool rises to 70% of world price over eight years
21 Lamb (meat prices are 80% pof 'with project projected prices.                       _______



- 52 -
Table 1.1.: SHEEP ENTERPRISE GROSS MARGIE MODELS 4IKFW With Project
(2000 head unite)
Improved Kyrgya Fine Wool- 22 micrem fiber diameter
Stuck Schedule            No.      Va1.       Sales    Birthd    Dh   Shmin
No.                            No.       Kg
Culled Ewes              1500        25        300      1500         75      1500     6750
On yrEwes                 500        26        100                   25       475      1900
Ewe Lambs                 750                  225                   25
Wether Linbs              750                  725                   25
Totel Flock              3500                 1350      1500        150      1975      8650
Returns
950 Lambs @3Sg. live wt. x *0.801kg. ie ($281h         2800 21
300 CULL EWEs S4Okg.livewigbht x$0.42Jkg ($ 1 6.81hd)   5040 [31
100 om yea EWEs @ $35 each                              3500 [41
Wool Sales 4757 kg. cbLanB $31kg                       14176 [51
TOTAL SALES                                            49316
Costs               VARIABLE COSTS
Shaing              1975 at $0.31head                    583
*Vaccinn, Drench, Insecticides 3500 @ $2.01hnd          7000
Advisory ssrvius @O0.2ihnad                              700
*Artificial Insmination       2000 at $2.0lhead         4000 [61
*Fuol    2 litroulhead at $0.331Lsr for 2000            1320
Fed       Roughag  1.5kgsId14O daysl*0.051kg fr 2000     000 171
Pasture Lene, Imrvemenh, Mnagment Costs                14848 [01
Wool seing costs    Std Testing ($0.02141kg gay)         185
Clssing, Skirting (*0.0214)kg        185
Waehoue, Belig ($0.08751kg           757
Prm. & Broking (2% ef Gross)         284
'Sheep traport services       3% of rvene               1479
TOTAL VARIABLE COSTS                                   37349
Morning             GROSS MARGIN                                           11967
GROSS MARGINISHEEP                                       5.98 [9]
Cash OutlylSheop                                           7
Noetse o di Grs Magin Estknates.
1. Locnl Cate in *US, st 10.5 sorl*I[Doc'941
2 Lambs bor in Api May, sod Sept. Nov. a live lambs, international market
3. Sold an local mutton carcus markt a cdle after weaning.
4. Om-yew repiacement breeding EWEs sel around world at 1.1 to 1.3 tims
Maket Me prices
5. Assunes Kyrgyz wool 570% of world mrket price of US$4.25.
S. Asmns fth smen; *1.00 for ram,  1.00 for imominator, supplies, equipment.
7. Emerpncy slppns of ucerne or clever hay
8. Recoge majer nree for inproed putures and pature _magement.
9. Gros marginsheep is baed on 2000 herd unit
10. Anes  rape lot size of 1,000 kg.
11. Wool parption at shring shed.
12. Fnl p        and beling for extemnal market at rayon or oblast wool store.
* Entbl Cah Outlays



- 53 -
Table 1.11: SHEEP ENTERPRSE  ROSRS MARGIN MODELS- KFW WItlet Pr est
12000 had udiu)
Kyrgyz Re Wed 22 micr fier disamter
Stock Schehb               No.      VX        Sale,       i       Death    S bas
Ne.                            Na.        Kg
Cuid Ewas                1000        200       216        860        60      1000       4000
On yr Ews                 404        100       121          0        25      4U0         1840
0  yr Wetber             404        100       361          0        25       480        1840
Ewe Lunb                  426                                        21
Wither Liamb              425                                        21
Totl Rock                2650                  687        850       152      1920        7880
482 Lamb. at 30Kg he wt0.71 kg (US*21I                 10122 [21
215 Cubd Ew e  35k be wtJO 3SAg (US*10A6h4              2834 131
3840kcbm weeIat 311                                    11520 [41
TOTAL SALES                                            24276
Ce h
VARIABLE COSTS
Shoing              1920 it 001.l4red                     289
Ciching             2000 at $0.06 hrad                    100
oChmniialr Viccuin
DOnch
Iniecticl           2658 at $08leO d          2126 151
Advinary sefvrcn                                           10
*Artificial dm.nnitn          1404 t 00.9 Ihrod          133
hFl                 2hldtu dst $.3311f r1020             1287 (61
Feid Suppbmnt
* Cnc. 300 gmid x 140 dyil*.081k fa r2000              S804 [71
Rwghup  1.3kpld x 140 dpi*0.019li fw 2000             6918 I81
(Rg fem 32 to 5 peranlrnteorvi)
Wed InA cse:        T"th                                    0
Warhmhg Idt b.I_                       0
PrimL & Brii                           0
Trfnipst smime    1.0% if ide rvt                        243
TOTAL VARIABLE COSTS                                   17669
GROSS MARGIN                                            6407
GROSS MARGiN ISHEEP                                      3.20 1
Coh Ouepy shhep                                            5
Not.. tithe km s Mw    Estmte.
1. Licl casb b US. at 10.5 saudllDsc'S41
2 OlMer sli.p ktmeid  m.wkt
3. YeApr iheep -  ltaII   malut
4. Assuav. Knpz wel -60% of wid pice c
5. mIebl vwecsm  & .e.ticWla
S. Esthete fr. flbW ti
7 & 8 Neede fwr l    sem bird (2000) r ber h-  mi  ed I      W f Mhm witd
9. Grin awgim bad2000 hardu t
S Entel cub oudhp



- 54 -
Tabll 8.1c SHEEP EUTERPNSE GROSS MARGIN MODELS - DPI With Prejet
12000 head malta)
Kyruyz Deal Purpse. Sheep Breed - 20 21 nlere fihr
Stock Modeldle           _N        V         Sab       Bkt      D        S
Ne.                           No.        Kg
Cuid Ewae                1500        20       300       1650      76.0      150       4860
On yrEwas                 500        30        100                25.0       475      1425
Evw Lam_.                 825                 284                 41.3
Wither Lami.              825                 784                 41.3
3860                1487      1650      182.0      1975      0275
Returns
1068 Lambs 03g ve wL x U0.lkg In ($2891               29887 [21
300 Cd EWEs 040g lin wt x 10.421kg (1US116.81hl        5040 [31
100 myer EWEs W t35 ewh                                3500 141
WedSas              3181k. at *3Ik*cbm                  9413 [51
TOTAL SALES                                           47940
Cab                 VARIABLE COSTS
Shearig             1975 at 00.31head                   593
Vaccms, Dmeah, huwtticti SZOOIhead x3650               7300
Advisry rvicau 90.2fhiaw  x 2WO head                   400
'Antificial haemat            2000 at $ZOlhead         4000 11
*Fel      2 trsfn ad. at .331l r 20W                   1435
Feed @i.Gk rughag1dryx8Oiyx$.05kR   fwr 2000           300 [l
Patinr Loew, klpyrev rmts, Manameat cut               11500 181
Wl ng cutb
Teting S $0.02148c Pury                                  134 [91
Classin. S*dt  I *0.02141kg psy                          134 1101
W hbsme, Baeg S $0.08751g                                548 [111]
Prm. & Selu Cost 12% of ge)                              1in
*Shep trmpet servcs           3% of nvuev              1435
TOTAL VARIAUBE COSTS                                  3869
Marinb              GROSS MARGIN                                           11171
GROSS MARGINISHEEP                                      5.59 [121
Cah Outbylheep                                             6
Nets. to to Gros. M6 IN Estia.
1. Vae w  tUS, at 10.5 sml0kIDec'41
Z Lamn bse h Api May, sold SepL - NNe. s in  _mbs, hite oAd   mu&t
3. SdId on bcal mutton ewcm   mbt as is adfr d aaws
4. O-yea rmpicmet hrsag EWEs ul - d wwWd at 1.1 to 1.3 tims
mowat lmb pie"
5. Assumn Kyrgyz wed @50% of wedd mekat strong wal pice af USt4.25.
6. Assme huh senr *1.00 fwr rm   1.00 fa hisemintr, supple, equimnt
7. Emrncy supple of lknr   or clver hay
8. Recepem  m*r seeds far ipred pstues am  psture maaennt.
9. Assames mar   let sh of 1,000k.
10. Woel peraae a sheal ehd.
11. Fhld gadig xsd h  l5 far extnl maet at dra   r aMst wea stoes.
12. Brms mwgIhep ib ae   2000 herd unit
* Enticaheouderi



- 55 -
Table B.1d: HEEP ENTERPRISE OROSS MARGIN MODELS. Abla Wftbout Project
(2000 head witb)
Alai Strong Wool and Fat-taid Most Sheep
Stock Schedule             No.      Vlu        Sals      Bithe    Deaths   Shsanw
No.                            No.       Kg
Cud Ewes                 1500       14.6        340      1400         90      1500      5490
On yrEwes                  500      14.5                              25       475      1062
Ewe Lanbs                  712        25        187                   36
Wither Lambs               713        25        677                   30
3426                 1214      1400        186      1975      7142
Ratumns
874 Lambs at US$32.51hd                                28418 [21
340 Evwes at 14kg  0 088kg (USS 1 Z041hd)                4094 [3]
3142kg at *1kgclean                                     3142 [4]
TOTAL SALES                                             35652
Costs               VARIABLE COSTS
Shoanng             1975 at S0.141head                    277
Cnatching           2000 at S0.051hlad                    100
*Chemials Vaccinen
Drnch
Insecticides         3425 at $0.81head         2740 [5]
Adviory servicue                                           10
IAitifichl Inneinaion          2000 at $0.0951oS ad       190
*Fu                 2.5 Z6ltnslhoad at S0.3311 for 2000  1650 [61
Food Supplemant
*Conc.    325 InulD  1500YSt0.O081Kg for 3239          12789 [71
Roughap   1.5kp1dll60dys*0.0l9k1g for 3239              13848 [0]
Laour
(Ranp from 32 to frio perons)
Wool soing costs   Testing                                 0
Waehomhig & lot huilding                0
ProL & Brokdng                          0
Shop trnsport nervicn          1.5% o  enua               488
TOTAL VARIABLE COSTS                                    32089
Maruns              GROSS MARGIN                                              3683
GROSS MARGINISHEEP                                        1.79 191
Cub OudayiShohp                                             6
Notos to the Gross Margin Estmdas.
1. Vaus aeo US, at 10.5 s6*mJ1[Dac 94]
2. Younpr sheep - local narket
3. Oldbr shep - local meksat
4. Assum  Kyrgyz cben strong wool -50% of world market prike of US$2
5. Includes vaccims & insecticids
8. Estimts fnm fi Id trips
7. & 8 Al sold in winttrlarly spring. concentrebs & roughap  needd for whoel herd
9. Gross magin per sheop   bhued on 2000 herd unit
* Entail Cuh outlays



T abe 6.2: KYRBTZ WOOL MARKETIEG, TESTING AID INFORMATION CENTER * PROFIT AMD LOSS ACCOUNT
(Amounts in US dollars)
Yer I    YTr 2    Y"r 3    Ywr 4        Yer 6      Y5r I      Yar 7      YVr 8      YSr I
Wool Production (tonnes grsy)1l          13,953    13,746    12,128    12,736      14,278     17,534     19,772    24,343     26,080
Wool Production (tonnes ceInJIl           6,977     6,873     6,064     6,368      7,139      8,767      9,886      12,172     13,040
Market Sher (%)12                            20        25        30        35         40         45         50         55         60
Price (US $IKg.U3                           1.40                2 .60     2.86       3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00
Warehousing (Ssllsr.6.25cuntsIKg gpyjI4  174,413   214,781   227,400   278,578    356,950    493,144    617,875    836,791    978,000
Warehousing (Buyer-1.35contuKg( gsy.)14  37,673    46,393    49,116    60,173     77,101    106,519    133,481    180,747    211,248
Lot Building (Sedler.2.5cntsdKg gsy.)14  69,765    85,913    90,960   111,431    142,780    197,258    247,150    334,716    391,200
Brokr's Fm (Seller-1 % of gross vauelu5  19,534    34,365    47,299    63,739     85,668    118,355    148,290    200,830    234,720
Promotion Chere (SelIer-1% of gross volue)/5  98      137       158       182        214        283        297        365        391
Te ting FmS  1.33 time teting fhal6      54,969    56,178    28,707    81,300    102,545    139,921    173,559    233,109    249,742
Total Reven                          350,451   437,707   443,542   595,403    765,258   1,055,459  1,320,131   1,786,557  2,065,301
Reursent Exuoned7
Salaiu and Allowances                    33,477    49,314    46,082    52,390     92,500     94,500     97,500    100,000    101,500
Testing Fsee7(a)                         41,330    42,239    21,684    61,128     77,101    105,204    130,495    175,270    187,776
Utilities                                 2,067     2,112     2,158     2,206      2,400      2,600      2,800      3,000       3,200
Communications                            2,067     2,112     2,158     2,206      2,400      2,600      2,800      3,000       3,200
Supplies & Mailing                       21,078    22,070     7,554    10,000      12,000     14,000     16,000     18,000    20,000
Space Rental                              2,067     2,112     2,200     2,300      2,400       2,500      2,600      2,700      2,800
Visit to local wool stores                5,166     5,279     5,400     5,500      5,600       5,700      5,800      5,900      6,000                            vl
Fuel & Insurance                          3,100     3,168     3,238     3,309      3,415       3,500     3,600       3,700      3,800                            O
Totol 1kviiont EApen                   11,351   125,408    90,375   13.9,039'  i97,516    230,604    261,595    311i,570    328,278
Amortization Costsl8                          0         0   190,1,918 919,099    8           190,918    190,9168   1          190,918
Deprecibtionl9                                0         0         0   164,194    184,194    184,194    184,194    184,194    184,194
InterestlI0                                   0         0         0         0     31,570     29,455     27,682      25,828     24,097
Income Tax Q 50%                        123,050   154,681    81,175    40,626     80,380    210,144    328,121    537,024    668,908
Total Expenm                         233,401   283,018   302,487   554,777    684,878    845,315    992,510  1,249,533  1,395,393
Prefiftfleeli 123,050   154,681    81,175    40,526    80,380    210,144    323,121    537,024    008,908
NOTES:
(1). Wool production numbers are from table 5 (a).
(2).  Market share is assumed to be 20% for the first year rising to 60% by Year 9
(3).  Wool price is taken at the existing price of US$1 .40 per Kg. increasing to S3.0 (70% of the world price of $4.25) by Year 8
(4).  Warehousing fee is projected @ 6.25 cents and 1.35 cents per Kg from the seller and buyer respectively and lot building revenue @ 2.5 cents per Kg. from seller, all based
(5).  Broker's fees and promotion charge are based on gross sales value; ie. 1% of (Clean wool production * Price per Kg.)
(6). Testing fees revenue is projected at 33% mark up on the testing fees.
(7).  Recurrent expenses are shown at the figures inthe project costs as per table 108 and 109 whereever available. For later years, the figures are estimates.
7 (a). Testing expenses are per cost table 108 from Year I to Year 4. From Year 5, they are projected @ S 12/ton. It is assumed that 40% of the greasy wool would be tested in Y
(8).  Deferred costs are amortized over ten years from year Year 3
(9).  Depreciation is computed @ 2.5% on buildings & fixtures and @ 10% on stores & office equipments from Year 4.
(10). Interest on loan is @ 1% per annum amortized over 15 years (with a holiday of initial four years). Interest accrues from the fiflth year.



Tabe 6.3: KYRGYZ WOOL MARKETING, TESTING AND INFORMATION CENTER - BALANCE SHEET
-Amour m US -o n-
ASSETS                   Yar I    Yer 2    Yar 3       Yr m4      Year 6     Year       Yar 7      Year8       Yar 9
Csh mi hend nd at Budc                    29,254    48,615    81,092    90,091     51,926      55,765     79,832    113,480     23,323
Invesrnentrll                             80,000   400,000   700,000  1,100,000   1,650,000   2,200,000   3,000,000   4,200,000   6,800,000
Fixed AIbtu2
Budkip & Fituns                          200,574   406,383   617,502   617,502    617,502    817,502    617,502    617,502    617,502
Stun & Office mi Other Eqmmnu           1,081.482  1,132,365  1,360,923  1,431,929   1,604.782   1,504,782   1,504,782   1.504,782   1.504,782
Total Groa Fixd Asset                   1,262,056  1,538,728  1,978,426  2,049,431   2,122,284   2,122,284   2,122,284   2,122,284   2,122,284
Le Depreciation                                0         0         0   158.630    324,50      480,482    656,378    822,293    988,209
Tetf Net RIWodAss et                    1.282,058  1, 38,728  1,978,426  1,890,801   1,797,738   1,631,822   1,485,908    1,299,991    1,134,075
Tr_iN & Advisoy Servcesco hferrdJ3       392,639   8391 !3.9   .      ; j.0 1 201.275   i,251,6i5 1,2   1,2,i;576   1,i29,56i   1,29,i576i   1 .2915 i 8
Less mortiad                                   0         0   120127   245,244    374,402    503.559    632,717    781,874    891,032
~~~~~~~~~~~~.. _._.f....... . ........  . ........... ...........   .....................   _  ..............  .
Not coal of Aitry SmWcen & Truer         392,8 3    30 j3   1,091, 147  1,005,921    917,175    788,017    658,859    529,702    400,544
TOTAL ASSETS                            1,743,949  2,826,481  3,840,555  4,092,913   4,416,837   4,575,604   5,204,597   6,143,172   7,357,942
UABIUTIES
incon Tax P.yabb4                        123,050   277,730   358,905   399,531    479,911    690,055   1,018,176   1,555,200   2,224,108
Long Tnrm Lonalh                        1,397,848  2,121,020  2,922,854  3,043,751   3,157,015   2,945,494   2,768,245   2,582,772   2,409,726
Equty16                                  100,000   150,000   200,000   250,000    300,000    360,000    400,000    450,000    500,000
Retaimd Emimg                            123,060   277,730   358,905   399,531    479.911    690,055   1018,176   15 200   2224,108
Eg*t& ReW EwI                   3,052             427,730   5501,418176  ,505,200   2,724,109
TOTAL IUABIUlIES & EQUS Y               1,743,949  2,826,481  3,840,565  4,092,813   4,419,837   4,876,604   5,204,597   6,143,172   7,357,942
NOTES:
11)  I  suwned that a exce hfurds w4 he ntad *udtiy.
(2) Vakes of fixd asets we bed on propt cot tlsb 107 and 108.
(3) Cost of advisoy uiess d tr_ai incurred diring prct knpinwntatin has been deferred id anortind over 10 yeas from Year 2.
(4) honax taxs accmuted as payab" nd is cnaid each yewr.
(5) Long erm        m b_ repaid frn mYer 5 ovr a pedod of I yean with cmst l 1% per wnm.
(61  It is  iaid that KWMTIC w  be abl to rie an eqity of t 100,000 at rncption Wd add on t50,000 every year thereafter.



Tak 6.4: KYRGYZ WOOL MARKEING, TESTING AMD INFORMATION CENTER - FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
lAmounts in US dolbrs)
SOURCES                  Yar 1    Yer 2    Yer 3    Yuar 4        Year 5     Yer 6      Yer 7      Yer 8      Yar 9
Net profit                               123,050   154,681    81,175    40,626     80,380    210,144    328,121    537,024     68,908
Dspreciation                                   0         0         0   184,194    184,194    184,194    184,194    184,194    184,194
Arortization                                   0         0   190,918   190,918    190,918    190,918    190,918    190,918    190,918
Interest                                       0         0         0         0     31,570     29,455     27,682     25,828     24,097
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ "   ............. ,..........  .....   .......................... ......  ...................
Intenal Cash Guration                    123,050   154681   272,093   415,738    407,062    6147711    730,915    937,964   1,064717
Equity                                    50,000    50,000    550,000       0,000   50,000    50,000     50,000     50,000     50,000
Other Labilities                         123,050   154,681    81,175    40,626     80,380    210,144    328,121    537,024    568,908
Loans                                   1,397,849   723,171   801,834   120,897         0          0          0          0          0
Totl Souree                          1,693,9   1.082,532  1,205,102   627,261    117,442    874,856  1,109,036  1,524,988   1,787,025
APPLICATIONS
Capital Investment                      1,262,056   276,672   439,698    71,006    72,852          0          0          0          0
Other Investment                          30,000   340,000   300,000   400,000    200,000    300,000    600,000   1,000,000   1,300,000
Debt Service
Interest                                    0          0         0         0     31,570     29,455     27,682     25,828     24,097
Principal                                   0       -0           0         0    113,264    211,521    177,249    185,473    173,048       1
Totsl ft Sebvie                               0         0         0         0    144034    240,975    204931    211,301    197,143          0
ChaW in Working Capial                     9,254    19,351   103,258   105,5       54,922     92,904     99,173    128         97
Doefrred Charges                         392,639   446,50    362,136    49,890     40,411         0           0          0          0
Total Afficatioone                   1,893,9  1,082,532  1,205,102   627,261    617,442    874,855   1,108,036  1,524,888  1,787,025



Tabe L.: KYRGYZ SHEEP INEEDER'S ASSOCIATON - PROFRT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
UAmeato in US du_                 __
Yor I       Yor 2       Yar 3        Ye r4       Y  ow Y6l                Yew 7        Ye rI       Yaw 9
Toet  nbr of mmubml                                 900        1,500       2,000        2,600       3,250        3,600       4,000        4,500       5,000
Aw    shoohap per nmbr2__ 350                                   450          500         600          660         550.         600         600          600
Meubw Joig Fe" S*p.m per     r                      900         600          500          BOO         650         350          400         500          500
A_I DO U     l56canat par dhop emwd              47,250      101,250      150,000     195,000     268,125      297,000     360,000      405,000     450,000
Tota lwavsa                                    48,150     101,850      150.500     196,00       218,77M     297,350     360,400      405,500     460.600
Opwaorog Cst14
Sbrui  & Alowuie                                  14,891      20,683       34,017      40,809       51,973      63,117      54,285       55,480       56,700
Vas"  Oparaios                                     9,117      12,472       22,394      22,976       23,573      24,092      24,622       25,164       26,717
GawWd Sarvie.                                     33,226      U,892        62,270      63,896       65,5560     6,998       08,472       69,978      71,618
Total Opwatig Cta                              57,235      77,846      118,886     127,680      141,102     144,207      147,379     150.622      153,836
k... Profit                                (B,085      24,004       31,814      07,920      127,673     153,143     213,021      264,878     296,656
Amnultin Coet4                                        0            0           0            0      115,403     116,403      115,403     115,403      115,403
0      8pr.chtianll                                   0       13,323       14,185      14,185       14,185       5,289       5,289        5,289       5,289
_tbmat oule17                                          0           0            O           0       17,597      16,503       15,399      14,284       13,168
hieamaTa x 50%                                    14,5421      5,340        8,814      26,807       (9,7561      7,974      38,465       59,961      81,358    o
Not Profit af Aa.iasa                      (4,6421     6,340        8,814      26,867        (0,7561      7,974      38,406      68,951       81,358
MProMef Iw f,wKNTEC/9                          123,050     154,1         51,175      40,a28       00300      210,144      324121      537,024      55a5
TOTAL MET PROFTI(LO1S3     118,601     110,021       8J.988      07.404       70,24     218,118      3661516     596.175      750,2
IOTES:
1. It is stimst      wi b900 nwmh   byd tad ofYr1 YId tIt dthpnbawWiwifech 6000 by rYe 8
2. Awop Wip pw              _ .ais as essumptins.
3. RFau ismanly frunn a m thn. a-,e afeof $1 per      d nn  an annual 6 dm cdponfoof I5eants per Wap ownd byaoeh member.
4. Opawot costs for t. fIfot 6year how I. bad on Ute prq    catc i Tobb 106 ad frn Yar 6, they hawe ben proecbd to wmr   by 2.2 % .voy yew.
5. Dafwad ct  a weqully mrtitod ovr tan year tr   t th  ya.
6. e    n  is priW d at20% an v ibu s   t 10% on squ*a      an stwig tmb .
7.     aon bmn is proW    atano rnaoef 1% per _   bd on a    15 ywortfn n chedule with o c    piod of fin yam.
8. Nat profitflLosa) afor tan of KWMTIC is conId wh the figms of KSBA.



Table 6.5: KYRGYZ SHEEP BREEDER'S ASSOCIATON - BALANCE SHEET
(Amotb si US dolh_
ASSETS                                         YurI         Yar2        Yer 3        Year 4      Yar 5        Yer B       Yar 7        Yewr        Yar 9
Cash i hnd and at Ban                            48,150       50,000       50,688      48,189       47,367      85,145       51,870      38,997       75,870
Inest.entull                                     100,000     250,000     450,000      700,000    1,000,000    1,050,000    1,200,000    1,400,000    1,000,000
Fixed As12
Equpinmnts                                       41,229       44,087       52,885      52,885       52,885      52,885       52,885      52,886       52,885
Ve..obs                                          44,572       44,572       44,484      44,484       44,484      44,484       44,484      44,484       44,484
Totl Gros Fixed Assts                            85,801       88,059       97,309      97,369       97,369      97,369       97,369      97,309       97,309
Las Deprecation                                       0       13,323       27,508      41,094       55,879      01,167       60,456      71,744       77,033
Tof Not taedAssets                               8501         75,336      6.  75,436,202                                    30,913       25,65       20,336
Tfming & Advisory Services costs dhferredl3      313,118     663,107    1,031,381    1,089,149    1,154,032    1,154,032    1,154,032    1,154,032    1,154,032
Lass aniortied                                        0            0           0            0      115,403     230,806      348,210     401,613      577,010
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   ii             i               .d .......   . .   . ..... . ........  ....... O.. .....154....... ......80 ......................
Not cot of AdiSarySuvces &T                     313,15i      663,167    131..                    1,038,628     83,2                     o 0418      577,0918
rOTAL ASSETS (ISIA)                 547,M9    1,93J,103    1901,530    1,N1,913    2127,4J5    2974572    2059.50         21f 7,041    2273222
Asob of KWMTIC                                1,743,948   2,920,481   3,840,065   4,092,013   4,416,837   4,575,004   5,204,597   0,143,172   7,357,942
CONSOUDATED ASSETS   2,291,018    3,964,985    5,442,495    5,993,826    6,544,323    6,750,176    7.295,203    8,300,213    9,131,104
UABIUTIES
Income Tax Payablel4                              14,542)        798        9,012      30,480       20,724      34,698       73,162     133,114      214,471    8
Long Tomi LoanslS                               456,154      880,908    1,382,605    1,568,053    1,774,038    1,055,177    1,544,280    1,440,813    1,344,279
Equity16                                         100,000     150,000      200,000     250,000      300,000     350,000      400,000     450,000      500,000
Retaird dE                  *                      ..... . .... ...{.(4,542)  798  9,012  38,480    20,724      34,698       73,162     133,114      214,471
Totd 4vdly & R       EinodEa7iks                 85,458      150,798     208,612      286,480     326,724      384,688     473,162      583,114     714,471
TOTAL 1lA M TILiES & EaUfTr[(SBAJ         5 S47,050    1,035,503    19001,530    1,581,913    2127,485    2,974,S72    2,990,905     2157,041    2273,222
Liabilities Equity of KWMTIC                   1,743,948    2,820,481    3,840,665    4,092,813    4,416,837    4,675,004    5,204,597    0,143.172    7,357,942
CONSOUDATED EaUITY & LIABILITIES   2,291,018    3,804,985    5,442,495    5,983,820    6,544,322    0,750,176    7,295,203    8,300,213    9,631,163
MOTES:
(1)  It is assuned tht al excess funds wi be invested suitably.
(2) Vds of fixed asts are based on propct cost tab 106.
(3) Cost of advisory services and trairig incurred durig propct implmentation has been deferred and anortizd over 10 years from Year3
(4) Income tax is accounted as pay"bb and is accrued each year.
(5) Long tenno  as bebing repaid from year Year B over a period of 15 years with interest e 1% per annun.
(6) It is assunsd that KSBA wi be able to rain an equity of t 100,000 at inception and add on t50,000 every year thereafter.
(7) The asts and lblties of KWMTIC are being consolidated in the financial statements of KSBA.



Table 6.7: KYRGYZ SHEEP BREEDER'S ASSOCIATION - FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Ainoain US dola)       _
SwrourYcr I                                               Yer 2       Yew 3       Yfr 4       Yar 6        Y Year Ym 7             Yer 8       Yar 9
Not  at                                         (4,542)      5,340       8,814      28,867       19,76B)      7,974      38,465      59,951      81,368
DO rcim                                              0      13,323       14,186      14,185      14,186       5,289       509         6,289       5,289
Ahni                                                 0           0           0           0      115,403     115,403     115,403     115,403     115,403
hitue                                                0           0           0           0       17,597      16,503      15,399      14,284      13,158
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _5                    137 .      .........___ . ....... ........... ........ ..... .. . ..... ....... ...__ ......  ....__  
itanW Cuh Go.watin                              _4,5    lO1          B B3 23,000                41,053 137,429  45168   174,555     194,927     215,207
Eqity                                           60,000      50,00       60,,0000 50,000          50                        ,000      50000       50,000
Odi. Lkities                                     4,642)      6,340       8,814      28,867       (8,756)      7,974      38,465      59061       81,368
LOW                             _              466,154     430,754     495,698      185,448          0           0           0           0            0
s*Taed i184A . Se .                  457,95      5*77         577,512    )34369      1t7,573      291143      28192a1     3657        344
KWMTICe' Searm                                1,193,139    1.082C532    1,20C,102  127,201      617,442     87,815    1.109,036    1,524,988    1,787,02C
TOTAL SOURCES   2,191,018    1,87.290    1,782,B13    930,829     795,114    1,077,98    1,372,0C7    1,B29,8BB    2,133,590
APPlCATIONS
C*itd bnhununt                                  86,801       2,868       8,710           0           0           0           0           0            0
Odth. I_Mnt                                    100,000     160,000     200,000     250,000           0      100,000     150,000     160,000     200,000
DebtSi-im
hitant                                             0           0           0           0       17,597      18,6503     16,390      14,284       13,158   oh
Prbc,d_                                            0           0           0           0      118.861     110,887     103,47      96,535      90,636
rToDtsk .r                                          0     0           0                 0      138457      127,400      11496 .  110,919        109,63
Chaw in Woai Cqpta                              (1,850)      1.850         588       4,400      (23,667)    (24,258)     f5,8461     44,069      36,872
DehfenedChla                                   313,118     350,040     368,214      57,768       64,882          1           a            0           0
Sob redf 1    am                              W7,W       594757      577,512     30JV         177,073    334143       20J1        miui        3446O
KWMTne. Applaiemn                             1,193,949    1,082,532    1.205.102  827,261      617.442     874,355    1,109,036    1,624,93   1,717,021
TOTAL APPUCATIOS   2C,191,013    1,587,290    1,732,13     930,629     795,114    1,077,998    1.372Z067    1,829.861    2,133,590



Ezpanibuu AicuuwM  by Co nId- Ilass Coms
Al DO_d Tdbl_ CJS$)
n vdp. mg o Uvemlock hinpord
-   III    IDEpL of
Lvwdock _-     u     and                           Shee ON Wool Pri      I
D0na-               Sho  R&D Supot                    D     b_pmi
Ag_cAWA                            Pee111AM Nd                 Wad    Wool Teting
Plated     Trlms and                    _a        Land     Ky    Se_      M Oa          and                      Phyl
-               Advhay       Ani"       bemu        R umes    b             and Gd         r hhtdon               C_uilrmncks
Unr t       SON  Hs  H        _    R       RmeAh  RID      Assocedin    Contdrol     Sevi          Total      %       AmUM
L       we Cod.
A. MMl Works
Cndruclo n                                               50,00.0    s000.0             -            -   540,000.0           -    640,000.0   10.0    64,000.0
L Goods
hWpds wd Mdwk                         -      81,000.0  1,OD -.0  1.736,5000.0             8 30,000.0   180,000.0      11,800.0   3,512.300.0   5.7   201,230.0
Cuesu En Cnmurn dlmis           32,000.0     40,000.0    70,0W0.0    16,000.0    30,000.0     23.000.0                      -    211,000.0   10.0    21,100.0
Equad and = hdlhary             11,00.0    114,150.0   528,00.0   254,700.0    158,000.0      41,000.0   338,200.0    486,S50.0   1,933,400.0   10.0   193,340.0  V
T1nl                            40,000.0    189,000.0   120,0W.0    40,000.0     w,m.o        20,.0  $0,08000  589,000.0   10.0 58,900.                     0
Subtotl Goods                     83,000.0    424,1500  2,218,500.   2,047,200.0    268,S00.0   87,000.    598,200.0    498,750.0   6,225,700.0    7.6   472,570.0 ;      j
C. TrdMn.Wl                             -    225,000.0    52,200.0    50,000.0     50,000.0    131,800.0   240,000.0          -    741,W0.0        -          -
D. TraInIg-Locel                  24,000.0    258,000.0   100,000.0         -    100,000.       70,000.0   240,000.0          -    792,000.0 M
L Technca Aaalgance
I anIIonel Conaukeds           434,0W.0    900,000.0   312,000.0   210,00.0    156,000.0    900,00.0   378,000.0    126,000.0   3,416,000.0     -
Lood Caiuawds                  420,D00.0           -         0            -            *            -   135,000.0                 51,500.0      -
Subtotal Techncal Asstance       854,WO.0 _ 90,.0   318,500.0    2156,WO                       900,O.0   513,00.0    128,000.0  3,977,500.0       -
Total Invedmad cosa                961,000.0   1,807,150.0  2,739,200.0  2,357,200.0    574,90.0   1.188,800.0  2,131,20.0    624,750.0  12,384,200.0    4.3   536,570.0  n #4
. Recurredn coats
A. Saml.e                          3,500.0    483,300.0    16,300.0   119,80.0    114,9000     150,100.0   243,120.0    46,500.0   1,329,220.0     -           -
B. Minwimc                              -    167,500.0           -          -            -            -                       -    167,500.0      -
C. OthwrOpwrhg Coms               88,500.0     13,500.0    64,800.0   710,000.0    120,240.0    324,W.0    34,500.0    262,5009   1,815,040.0     *
TotalR      tCos                     9,000.02 664,300.0233,1000.0    2351400                     474,1.0   277,620.0    30s,ww.0   3,111,760.0
Total ASUSECOSTS                  1,050,0W.0         2,971, Z.0   2,300.0  3,186.700.0    810,040.0   1,662.900.0  2.408,820.0    933,750.0  15,495,060.0    3.5   536,570.0 S
Pho cdC     ucI                   8s,300.0     42,415.0    76,860.0   20s,720.0    26,090.0      8,700.0   113,820.0    49,875.0    536,570.0      -           -M
Price Cmodnenc                    47,712.7    129A09.0   175,1072    128,891.8     23,452.1    90,65e.4   123,6625      26,361.8    745,253.6    2.3    17,458.0
Totdal PROJECT COSTS              1,108,012.7   2,643,274.0  3,224,2572  3.525,311.8    860,382.1   1.762,256A   2,646,302.5   1,009,986.8  16,M7.73.6  3.3   564,028.0
Tomn. -                                                                                                   -          -.                    .       .
Foreign Efhag                    601,2532   1,758,634.8  2,904,472.3  2,733,4022  547,345.2   1,237,506.8  2,026,392.2    917,116.6  12,726,1232  4.4   554,028.0



Expendure Accounts by Copoets - Tobtas induding Cotingenc
All Dibld Tabls (US$)
Developrmet of Uveatock Support
Services
Strnghtang Dept of
Livestock Managmt an                               Shep and Wool Privat Entepris
Developrimt         Shep R&D Support                   Devdopmwnt
Agricultural                       Pasturesd                    Wool    Wool Tesing
Proect     Training wnd               Shep        Land      Kyrgyz Shep  Marketing      and
hnetatlon   Advisy           Anil       Breedng    Resourcs    Breedws   and Qulity  Inbmion
Urit       Sevices       Health    Resrch        R&D       Associaon    Control       Sutvice      Total
L nvestbnen Costs
A. ClI Works
Consructon                                   -            -    55,715.0    55,715.0           -            -   617,502.4           -    728,932.4
B. Goods
InpeA endWMials                              -      94,272.5  1,617,576.8  1,967,471.5        -       3,342.9   211,278.6    13,148.7   3,907.091.0
CornpAes and Cemmuniafions             35,657.6     45,576.8    79,644.5    17,828.8    33,429.0     25,834.0          -           -    237,970.7
Equxmert and Machiney                  12,257.3    132,854.4   603,002.3   286,037.4    177,065.2    45,993.9   388,516.3    543,500.4   2,189,227.2
Tmran                                  44,572.0    219,969.2   135,454.3    45,745.9    89,144.0     22,286.0    91,491.9          -     648,6.3
Subtotad Goods                           92,486.9    492,672.9  2,435,677.9  2,317,083.7    299,638.2  97,456.8   691,286.7    556,649.2   6,982,952.2
C. Trainng4in                                  -    233,902.4    54,265.4    50,650.0     50,650.0    142,221.8   251,145.4          -    782,834.9
D. Tranng - Local                        24,312.0    273,950.8   102,616.9         -    101,300.0      76,200.4   251,415.5                829,795.6    ON
E. Techncal Assistanee
lntemationuCornsubrts                 448,917.8    927,169.4   320,897.7   216,058.2    159,940.8    935,609.6   392,956.0    129,112.9   3,530,662.4
Local Consulants                      448,166.7           -     6,701.9          -            -            -   144,053.6           -    598,922.1
Subtotal Technical Assistance           897,084.5    927,169.4   327,599.6   216,058.2    159,940.8    935,609:6   537,009.6    129,112.9   4,129,584.6
Total InvesbTme Costs                   1,013,883.4   1,927,695.5  2,975,874.8  2,639,506.9    611,528.9   1,251,488.6  2,348,359.6    685,762.1  13,454,099.7
II. Recurren Codst
A. Salaries                               3,598.5    521,002.5   180,381.5   127,378.9    121,920.8    162,373.5   261,129.3   49,123.5   1,426,908.6
B. Maitenance                          .       -    180,170.6          -           .            -            -           -           -    180,170.6
C. Olher Operatng Coats                  88,530.8    14,405.4    68lODo9    758,426.0    126,932.4    348,394.3    36,813.7    275,101.2   1,716,B04.6
Total RcurrndtCosts                        92,129.3    715,578.5   248,382.4   885,804.9    248,853.2    510,767.8   297,943.0    324,2247   3,323,B83.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                      1,106,012.7   2,643,274.0  3,224,257.2  3,525,311.8    860,382.1   1,762,256.4  2,646,302.5   1,009,986.8  16,777,783.6
TaM                                            -                              -                       -
Fonegn Exchange                         601,253.2   1,758,634.8  2,904,472.3  2,733,402.2    547,345.2   1,237,506.8  2,026,392.2    917,116.6  12,726,123.2



Projet Components by Year - InvestmentURecurrent Costs
All Detailed Tables (USS)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996        1997       1998        1999        2000        Total
A. Develpmnent of Livestock Support Services
1. Projet Implementation Unit
Investent Costs                                                          372,074.9   276,463.9   179,148.6    91,903.2    94,292.7   1,013,883.4
Recurent Costs                                                            59,868.3     8,418.6     8,104.3     7,768.0     7,970.0     92,129.3
Subtotal Project Iplemethation Unit                                        431,943.2   284,882.5   187,253.0    99,671.2   102,262.7   1,106,012.7
2. Strenghtening Dept of Livestock Management and Deveopmnent
Agricultural Trainig and Advisory Services
Investment Cosb                                                        728,200.1   626,229.7   306,608.1   134,055.6   132,601.9   1,927,695.5
Recurrent Costs                                                         83,775.1   115,730.3   139,373.4   171,388.6   205,311.2    715,578.5
Subtotal Agricutural Training and Advisory Services                      811,975.2   741,960.0   445,981.4   305,444.2   337,913.1   2,643,274.0
Animal Health
Investment Costs                                                       603,292.2  1,043,703.2   481,728.5   426,201.3   420,949.7  2,975,874.8
Recurrent Costs                                                         40,418.7    59,034.4    55,237.5    49,015.1    44,676.8    248,382.4
Subtotal Animal Heith                                                    643,710.9  1,102,737.6   536,966.0   475,216.3   465,626.4   3,224,257.2
Subtotal Strenghtenhng Dept. of Uvestock Management and Development       1,455,68.1  1,844,697.6   982,947.4   780,660.6   803,539.6  5,867,531.2
Subtotal Development of Uvestock Support Services                           1.887,629.3  2,129,580.2  1,170,200.3   880,331.8   905,802.3   6,973,543.9
B. Sheep R&D Support
1. Sheep Breeding Research
Investnt Costs                                                          1,797,639.4   350,974.0   259,147.0   224,090.7    7,655.7   2,639,506.9
Recurrent Costs                                                          157,926.7   175,024.5   179,575.2   184,244.1   189,034.5    885,804.9
Subtotal Sheep Breeding Research                                          1.955,566.1   525,998.6   438,722.2   408,334.8   196,690.1   3,525,311.8
2. Pastures and Land Resources R&D
Investment Costs                                                         560,877.8    25,058.4    25,592.7          -           -    611,528.9
Recurrent Costs                                                           74,820.2    38,663.4    62,318.1    24,288.7    48,762.8    248,853.2
Subtotal Pastures and Land Resources R&D                                   635,698.0    63,721.8    87,910.8    24,288.7    48,762.8    860,382.1
Subtotal Sheep R&D Support                                                  2,591,264.1   589,720.4   526,632.9   432,623.6   245,452.9   4,385,693.9
C. Sheep and Wool Private Enterprise Development
1. Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association
Investment Costs                                                         398,919.4   352,907.2   377,011.9    57,767.7    64,882.4   1,251,488.6
Recurrent Costs                                                           55,411.1    75,767.7   116,126.7   125,054.0   138,408.2    510,767.8
Subtotal Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association                                 454,330.5   428,675.0   493,138.5   182,821.8   203,290.6   1,762,256.4
2. Wool Marketing and Quality Control
Investment Costs                                                         741,399.5   581,925.3   784,878.9   140,699.5    99,456.4   2,348,359.6
Recurrent Costs                                                           41,877.4    49,825.9    63,533.8    70,437.3    72,268.6    297,943.0
Subtotal Wool Marketing and Quality Control                                783,276.9   631,751.2   848,412.6   211,136.7   171,725.0   2,646,302.5
3. Wool Testing and Information Service
Investment Costs                                                         613,295.5    61,632.7     3,519.0     3,610.5     3,704.4    685,762.1
Recurrent Costs                                                           74,860.7   105,077.1    97,678.6    37,964.8     8,643.5    324,224.7
Subtotal Wool Testing and Information Service                              688,156.2   166,709.8   101,197.6    41,575.3    12,347.9   1,009,986.8
Subtotal Sheep and Wool Private Enterprise Development                      1,925,783.7  1,227,136.0  1,442,748.8   435,533.8   387,363.5  5,418,545.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                         6.404,657.0  3,946,436.5  3,139,582.1  1,748,489.2  1,538,618.7  16,777,783.6
Total Investment Costs                                                    5,815,698.8  3,318,894.7  2,417,634.5  1,078,328.6   823,543.1  13,454,099.7
TotlRecurrent Costs                                                        588,958.2   627,541.9   721,947.6   670,160.6   715,075.6   3,323,683.9



Components Projct Cost Summary
All Dabded Tabls
%     % Total
(SOn)                                (US$)                  Foreign   Base
Local       ForS.n        Total       Local      Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Devekomn_t of Livestock Support Sevices
1. Prect hpeeton Unit                                                 5,050,921.2   6,079,078.8  11,130,000.0   476,502.0    573,498.0  1,050,000.0  55       7
2. Slreaghtenng Dept of Lvestox Manag_ ent and Devopnwnt
Agur    Tralning and Advboy Svic                                    8,740,083.7  17,457,286.3  26,197,370.0   824,536.2  1,646,913.8  2,471,450.0   67      16
nimal HeM                                                           3,218,185.4  28,288,194.6  31,50S,380.0   303,6D2.4  2,o8,897.6  2,972,300.0    90      19
Subto  Stenqteng DepL of Livesack Managemnt and DevWopment           11.958,289.2  45,745,4808   57,703,750.0  1,128,138.8  4,315,611.4  5,443,750.0  79     35
SubtaloDeveopment of Livesock Support Services                         17,u09,190.4  51,824,559.6  68,833,750.0  1.604,640.6  4,889,109.4  6,493,750.0  75     42
B. Sheep R&D Support
1. Sheep Brdhg Re"ech                                                 7,860,673.8  25,918,346.2  33,779,020.0   741,573.0  2,445,127.0  3,186,700.0  77      21
2. Pasr aNd  Land Roeeoce R&D                                         3,175,920.7   5,410,503.3   8,588,424.0   299,6152    510424.8    810,u40.0    83       5
Subtl  Shep R&D SWport                                                 11,036,594.5  31,328,849.5  42,365,444.0  1,041,188.2  2,955,551.8  3,996,740.0  74     28
C. Sheep and Wool Privat Entepr  O oprnt
1. KyrgWz Shee Sweden Associaon                                       5,156,109.2  12,470,630.8  17,6740.0   486,425.4  1,176,474.6  1.662,900.0     71      11
2.WoolMfignd widQueRyContrIl                                         6,184,488.2  19,349,003.8  25,533492.0   583,442.3  1,825,377.7  2,408.820.0    76     16
3. Wool Testg and hibonfon Sevice                                       938.163.6    8,959,586.4   9,897,750.0    88,50o.0    845,244.0    933,750.0  91      6
Subol  Shpand Wool Priva Entarprie Develpment                      - 12,278,71.0  40,779,221.0  53,057,982.0  1.158,373.7  3,647,096.3  5,005,470.0    77      32
Todi BASELNE COSTS                                                      40,324,545.9  123,932,630.1  164,257,176.0  3,804,202.4  11,691,757.6  15,495,960.0  75    100
F-    Crhgen_s                                                                 -   5,887,642.0   5,887,842.0         -    536,570.0    536,570.0     100      3
Prc Co n                                                              2,623,053.7   5276,634.2   7,899,687.8   247,457.9   497,795.7    745,253.6    67       5
Toti PROJECT COSTS                                                      42,947,599.5  134,869,0S.3  177,844,505.8  4,051,660.3  12,726,1232  16,777,783.6  76    108
z
zr



Expendiure Accounts by Yers - Base Costs
All Debied Tables (USS)
Bas cost                                Foreign Exchange
1N         1107        lowS       1N          2000        Total              Anount
L hwesbvmU Code
A. ClV Works
Consruction                        230,000.0   180,000.0   180,000.0         -          -    640,000.0   100.0    640,000.0
B Goods
Inpis and Maerials                1,390,500.0   481,700.0   606,700.0   606,700.0   426,700.0   3,512,300.0   100.0  3,512,300.0
CompuArsand Commuricabon           163,000.0    6,000.0    36,000.0     5,000.0    1,000.0    211,000.0   100.0    211,000.0
Equipmen and Machinery            1,124,150.0   568,825.0   148,375.0    46,025.0    46,025.0   1,933,400.0   100.0  1,933,400.0
Tranwport                          323,000.0    91,500.0    91,500.0    31,500.0    31,500.0    569,000.0   100.0    569,000.0
Subtotal Goods                     3,000,650.0  1,148,025.0   882,575.0   689,225.0   505,225.0   6,225,700.0   100.0  6,225,700.0
C. Training-Int'l                .  279,000.0   179,200.0   185,200.0    72,800.0    32,800.0    749,000.0   100.0    749,000.0
D. Trainkg - Local                   290,100.0   190,600.0   173,100.0    66,600.0    71,600.0    792,000.0    10.6  83,952.0
E. Technical Assistance
International Consulbnts         1,461,000.0  1,275,000.0   666,000.0    14,000.0       -   3,416,000.0   100.0  3,416,000.0
Local Consulnts                    114,750.0   112,650.0   111 550.0   111,550.0    1 1 1,000.0    561,500.0    10.6  59,519.0
Subtotal Technial Assistance       1,575,750.0  1,387 6500   77,550.0   125,550.0   111,000.0  3,977,500.0    87.4  3,475,519.0
Total Invesbnnt Costs  *             5,425,500.0  3,085,475.0  2,198,425.0   954,175.0   720,625.0  12,384,200.0    90.2  11,174,171.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          208,140.0   223,640.0   278,880.0   285,280.0   333,280.0   1,329,220.0    10.6    140,897.3          0"
B. MaIntenance                        23,000.0    28,250.0    33,500.0    38,750.0    44,000.0    167,500.0    10.6  17,755.0
C. Ow Operatfng Costs               350,260.0   351,900.0   364,640.0   288,500.0   259,740.0   1,615,040.0    22.2    358,934.2
Todal Recurent Costs                   581,400.0   603,790.0   677,020.0   612,530.0   637,020.0   3,111760.0    16.6    517,586.6
Total BASEUNE COSTS                   6,006,900.0  3,689,265.0  2,875,445.0  1,566,705.0  1,357,645.0  15,495,960.0   75.5  11,691,757.6
Physical ConVgnies                   315,565.0   107,802.5    68,757.5    31,422.5    13,022.5    536,570.0   100.0    536,570.0
Price Contin                          82,192.0   149,369.0   195,379.6   150,361.7   167,951.2    745,253.6    66.8    497,795.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                   6,404,657.0  3,946,436.5  3,139,582.1  1,748,489.2  1,538,618.7  16,777,783.6    75.9  12,726,123.2
TOM_s
Foreign Echange                    5,554,051.6  3,170,544.0  2,281,902.8  1,001,523.8   718,101.1  12,726,123.2



Tabke 101. Projea Im    nttion Unit
Debied Cots
AU Detaied Tables (USS)
Quane                                                            Tota  Includhg Conomnie
UnK       low        19S7     1096     1900      2000     Total   Unit Cost   1*9           1917       10          1m          2000       Total
L lieveatnus Cofta
A. Adviemy 6.1*ss
P.ed m ru                            month             6        12        6         -        -        24    14,O0D     85,092.0   174,808.8    89,574.3          -               349,2751
Acoo_mtiProcwmnt                     month             6         1             -                       7    14,000    85,092.0    14,550.7                      8-           -    99,42.7
Subh  Adetmy Owvle                                                                                                     170,184.0   189,fS9.5    89,574.3         -           -   448917.8
S. Locet ttpub
Proect Mrnw                         per                2         2        2        2         2        10    21,000     42,548.0    43,852.2    44,787.2   45.951.6    47.146.4   224,083.3
Fmwxclewlew                         PemorVyr           1         1        1        1         1         5    21,000     21,273.0    21,826.1    22.393.6   22,975.8    23,573.2   112,041.7
PrOcznin Speck"                     petaVyr            1         1        1        1         1         5    21,000     21,273.0    21,828.1    22,393.6   22,975.8    23,5732    112,041.7
Sukbbta Local Expqb                                                                                                      85,092.0    87,304.4    89574.33   91903.2    9429-27448166.7
C. CUe Eqorpult
Con                                 computr           10          *        -        -        .        10     2,000     22,286.0                                  -           -    22,286.0
Pril                                 prhu              5         -         -                 -         5     2,000     11,143.0                      -          -           -    11,143.0
Fo                                    fax              2                   -        -        -         2     1.000      2.228.8          -                       -           -     2,22&8
Phdotocopls-4.g                      each              1          -        -        -        -         1    10.00      11.143.0          -           -          -           -    11,143.0
.mm                                  each              1          -        -        -        -I1             1.000      1,114.3          -           -                              .-  -   1,114.3
4Awdt Drive                           cw               2         -         -        -        -         2    20,000     44,572.0                     7.           -                     2.0
_aU OI6.e   -mM                                                                                                          92,486.9                         -                   .    92.486.9
D. Trelng
Coaueput i dudy taw wnotx                              3              -             -        -         3     8,000     24,312.0          -                      .           -    24,312.0
Toh            Cost                                                                                                       372,0 74.9   278,463.9   179,148.6   91,903.2    94,292    1,013,883.4
IL ftemw,ui Costs
A. CPua ll blpue.
Lel CO _Mancjs                       uoat                                                                               2.026.0     1,039.3      533.2           -          -      3,598.5
PIU Sqppw taff                     persmnw             8         8        6        8         8        30       600      3.646.8     3,741 8     3,838.9    3,93.7      4.041.1    19.207.1
Vee Opuron                            sech             2         2        2        2         2        10     1,750      3,545.5     3,637 7     3,732.3    3,829.3     3,928.9    18,873.8
SaUMY                                un3ut                                                                              5,065.0                                              -     5,065.0
mlee nosm                                                                                                              45,5f5.0 --                                          -    45,585.0
Totdl RecuutCota                                                                                                           so    3                  8. 1043    77680       7970.0  92129.3
TOW0                                                                                                                      431,943.2   284,882.5   1871253.0              102996271.2 1.7 10,012.7



T*b0I AW_Tnag NW A& S                     hut
D*_kd TwmN
UlS1 eeT1 1wmn                                                                                                       T_ o 1 nT1 m Tdum CTdow
E_"wDOh_r                                                                              0.5-                                 2.5    sBA  U   18o2,160.0   IG?' e.e  e5sM2.6                                       4e5.3s3.3
_      S_m*                                    _ ds                         1V*                                               2    1 o,p0p    182.340.0    187,e.e              -.                             3e9,42p.e
fte6d_e Spdl                                  WAF               3     .                                                       a e   1Ap         45s5 s.o1    40,770.2--- t5.
_I L_ ATA   Vlpso                                                                                                                                410.2115.0    420,231.9    95.972.5                              0 27.10A 
C _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~md                              3           I                                                 a           2,000  e,e  .e      2,2ee.5      2,34e.0      2,407.0                  13s,725.3
F_                                            Pw                3           1                                                 0          2,000   e, s1.e101   2,2ee.5      2.34e.e      2,407.0           .      3,725.3
_                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  2      *           -           .           .2                   2 Poo       4.45f7.2          --.-                                           4,457.2
Fox_l                                                           2             1                                                                              e1,o e.e,143.3  1.173.0   1,203.5      1,234.0      Cm@.1
Fall           X1               2           1           1           j           I             t       1,000      2,27e.e      1,sa.X       1,17s,0      1,20s.5      1,234.l      e,se3.r~~~01.00  222841 1,13.3 1,73.  1,03.  1234$  sW.
C_    TA $  q _tm'                                                                                                                                29,971.9      G,Bs".       7,03e.0      7.221.0      2,4es.e     s2.500.0
1._*mpa o
$411                  2           1                                                 6 I     e .ooo     2,22e.e      1143.3       1,173.0      i,203.5      1,234.0      G.903A
SmF_h  Tom                                   o                2           1                                                 a           l,ooo  2.221.0      1,143.3      1,173.0     1,203.5       1,234.0      6,9e8.i
M"SFhv Pkwdw                                               2           1           1                  1                          4,500     10,02e.7      5.l44.7      5,27B.5      5,415.7   s,sse.s       31 ,424.2
_PO9                                                          2           1           1           1     I            e             2,000      4,457.2       2,29e.s      2.34e.0      2X407.0     2.44es.e    13,see.3
wow  pe                                      Od               2           1           1           1           I             a         25         55.7         20.e         29.3         30.1         30.0        174.e
C&AMNPf                                     pro               2           1           1           1           1             e      e,0op      13,371.       e,eso.e      7,03e.0      7,221.0      7,40B.7    41,8011.9
_                                ~        ~       ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~      ~ ~~~~Sd  2  1  1  1  I  e  l,oo  2,22e.A  1,143.3  1,173.0  1.2113.5  1,234.e      e,se.i
Tl_ih                                        Id               2           1           1           1           I             e      2,500       5.571.5      2.ese.2      2.N22 5      3,ooe.7      1,pe7.0     17,457.9
_Olw    1Oc                                                                                                                                    40,170.5      20,eo7.5     21.143.3     21.e93.0    22,257.0    125.e71.3
C_                                S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  2       1           1           1           I             a      4.500     10,028.7      5,144.7      5,278.5      5,415.7      s,sse.s     31,424.2
Sm d stcst                                                 2           1           1           I           I             e      4.500      10,0211.7     5.144.7      5,278.5      5.415.7      5,s55.5     31.424.2
Id               2           1           1           1           I             e      4,500     10.02e.7      5,144.7      5.278.5      5.405.7      5,55e.s     31,424.2
a      F     _Lad "                                                                                                                              300ee.i      i5.434.2     i5se35.5     16247.2      16eee9.e     s42n2.5 
D. V d         Evs                                                                                                                                70.258.0     30,04i.0     3e.978.7     37.s40.2     30es2e.0    220,14.8                                      0
Mb4WD                                                                                   I           Ie          I             a 1500 1           3wo ,429.0  17,140.1     17,595.0     1D,052.4     10,521JS   104,747.2                                      X0
_ew~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2                                        1           1           1           I      e            12.00P      20,7a3.2     13,719.3     i4,07e.0    14.441.9      14,B17.4     $3,797.8
mowreyde                          ~~~~ca           10           5           5           5           5            30        900      10,02e.7      5,144.7      5,27e.5      5,415.7      5,558.s     31,424.2
L T,kf                                                                                                                                            70.200.9    3e,013.1      3e,s4s.4     37.910.1     3e,es.1r1.  219,9s.2
h*t                                          Ps                10          Io           o           .           -            30      7,500      75.075.0     77.95P4      79,077.1           --    233,902.4
Su$ Tnsbbg                                   per"               t           a           e           O           e            30        eso       3,e4e.8      3,741.e      XR3,9Ms      3,s3e1.7    4,041.1    19,W7.1
Et. Sdtirf T h9                                p               30          30          30          30          30           ISO        eop      1e,234.0     1s,n.70.     1s,104.5     Is,S3.M      20.20.0    se,o35.7
Fmnm_T g*                                     morth           500         250         2s0         250         250         1,500        IW0      soeso.o      25.M.5      2eess1.0      27,352.2    2soe3.3    150,707.9
Totd    -     Cg1                                                                                                                                 148e50se    12efe93.5    12se0s.5       sose4M.4     52uO1.0    507ss63.2
L Twrwtcd*                                                                                                                                        728.200.1   eU22,n.7    3M.W6a.1    134,056.e        M.26411.0  i,927,05s
sus                                           "WY               *           9          12          Is          le           eo       1,e00      10.940.4    1e,a37.3     23,033.4     20,540.3     30.370.1    116,721.4
E_wNsall                                      "WY              27          42          57          as          *1           27e      1,200      32,821.2    52.3e2.e     72,11M.1     90,590.3    10W.110.2    357,U43.4
ass   sStr                                    U-1               2           2           3           4           s            le        eop      I1,215.e      1,247.2      1,919.4      2.e25.8      3,3e7.0     10,375.7
Drhmm ~ ~  ~      ~     ~    ~     S Wb'            3                       4           s           e            21        Soo       I,11ZIA      1.e70.0      2,5511.3     3,282.3      4.04i.1    1357e.0
mh emd                                        mrh       a      .s          l            .5                      -          365    e oo          MUGA0  I1 i24.9             M9B.9                                 22,4tS.2
_ * dwiAm                                                                                                                                         57,74a.0 a   s5s2.e    100,771 .r 23. se. 20.
4WD                                           p.m.              2           3           4           5           e20                  1,750       3,545.5      5.4se.5      7,4e4.5      s,573.3     ar,jes.      37.92e.4
se"                               ~~~       ~      ~      ~    ~      ~    ~      ~    ~      ~    ~      ~     ~~~P.O.  2  3  4  5  e  20  1,750  3,545.5  5,45t.5  7,4a4.5  9573.3    11,781.0     37.e2e.4
c.r                                            Pa               2           3           4           s           e            2D      1,750       3.545.5      5,45t.5      7,4e4.5     .sn71.3      11.ne.t      37,4126.4
CdGnal 9Vk           p                                                                                                                            IDAM3.5    1e,38s.0      22,30N.6     2s,719.8     3s.3ss.e    113.470.2
0m  ski le                                                     12          1 2                     1 2         12 2    eo               75        911.7        IM3.4        950.7        9U4.7       1.010.s     4,901.9
P&T                                          wUm               12          1 2         1 2         12   t                     o        IO        1508,23.4    1,070.8      1.019.A      1,9N0.4     2,020.0  s,eo3.s
E_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wm                                I    _      I           I           I           I             5     12,500     12.Me.5      12.991.7     13,329.5     13,e7e.      14,031.7     88,691.5
To  Rm       css                                                                                                                                   s.,397.e     1s.7s7.s     10,2DB.7     It,AWA.      17.062.5    811.008.
ToS                                                                                                            a7751       IISnoo       445g3eng4    305'44482    233759t31   2.ta.27 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0107.2 74.1100  4506 A 30,44.    37.131    .63,4. 
i E_usnbe b S |g .s_beg dh  d5 . rolcu T ueo b d s  Sp,ora p wn ,  hio ppo h o fl



Tl 103. Fb   HaM
Detailed C..b
Al Da0a Tea (US$)
Quanrtlil.                                                                 Totals ibelLudina Conti l9flh
Unit               1      17          1000         100          2000         Total    Unit Cot    Is"           17          1           10n0        20         TOt
&k Equip-n
CmtA*                                          Canv                  6            -            4            .            .           10     2.000     13,371.6                9,384.0           *           -    22,766.6
POW0~                                           p.ie 6                                        4             -            -          10      2,000    13,371.6           .     9384.0            *                22,755.6
Sd                                                S                  6            -           6                          -           12     2.000     13,371.6               14.076.0           -          -    27447.6
Fox                                              to                 ea                         -            -                        6      1.000     6,665..                       -           -           *     6,66s.s
Lob ELAr                                          idph               2            -            -            -            -           2      10.O0     2,226.6           -           -                             2220.6
LoalES n     Ss                                                      2            -                  *                   -             210.000 2z         60                                                     2Z26.0
o0  ~aUIac 84                                     -42****2                                                                                 1so        2s.                                       -           *     2s.
-q                                                  ii12                                                                       - -     2    10.00032,8439                                         -               126.446.1
bc ~ Ca" Bpi m      d                           nmi                  2            1            -            -                        3    14,000    20,364.0    14,650.7            .           -           -    42,914.7
otwc spad                                         o                  1            1                         -            -           2    14.000      14.1820     14,550.7          -                       -    20.732.7
E qdwiitg8                                      magih                3            2            1            1            -           7    14.000    42,46.0    20,101.5    14,929.1    15,317.2             .   101,893.7
Pfac.nwug-Vm  udayoda                            omit                3            2            -            -            -           5    14.000    42,46.0    29,101.5             -           -           -    71,647.5
R.g,"y Sp*Ma                                    nmxh                 -            -            I            -                         1    14.000           -           -    14929.1            -           -    14129.1
F.          Y S1    Var    k                    wood                                                                                                  Wo,760.0          -           -           -  *             60780.0
h_pr.~ day                                                         150          6s            22          22                       260        25      3 796. 18714.9            56.5        W017           -      67019
StMctalAdvlaotyauva                                                                                                                     19221.e    69,019.3    30,444.6    15,919.0             -32t9.
C. Tiulln
hITdg                                           pa                   2            2           2             -                        a 6    8.700     17.262     18,064.5    16,564.7           -           *    54,26.4
Loed v" ohV                                                         50     W      0                         -            -         100      1.000           so,e        so.0  sts66S        *  -           - 1o
Subo  Tra                                                                                                                                              6s,272      70,051.4    18,554.7           *          .   1s56.z3
D. T    _utopon
4VW*U                                            e                  -            3            -            -            -           3    20.000            -    68,596.3           -           -           -    e.s596.3
ca                                                cv                 3                         -                                     3    20.000     66,s86.0           .           -                       -    66
Ubtota T      _npmtion                                                                                                                                 66,858.0    66.596.3           -           -           *   135,484.3
E C      aW U                                      .l              t1w,0            *            --                        -        1.000       60     55,715.0           -          -            -          -    55,715.0        C
F. 191__                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %
Vacdra pwchmn                                                      50o 1.000               1,500        1.500        1,500        6,000      250    126.25.0   256,834.5   399,885.3   410.2023   420.949.7  1,61576.8
Pwcl O_as o .qgnanlOvawt                         It                                                                                                         -   556201.7           -            -          -   55S,201.7
Subtotal Uoao                                                                                                                                                                             4102823   4209497  217377.5
T~ tov      w Coot.                                                                                                                                     603,292.2  1,043.7032    481,728.5   426,201.3   4209497  297 .574.6
L Recuren Co0
A  uina  Remouroga
1. _obf
vtowVW                                                             3            5            5            5            5           23     2100       6,381.9    10,913.0    11,196.8    11,487.9    11,766.6    51,7612
&poprt dS                                                          2            4            4            4            4           18 a      o       1823.4      3741 6     3638.9       3s7        4041.1      17383.7
SubtEt Epdmo                                                                                                                                            206.3    14,654.7   'U05.        1Lm268      1           69,160.
L Dl@Useis
Vg00t                                           o                  2            5            5            5            5          22      2,O1       4,254.6    10,913.0    11,196.8  11,U 47.9    11,785.6    49.638s
TadII                                          YEAR                4            6            6            6            6          20      1,20       4,8824     7,483.2     7,677.8      7.877.4    8.062.2    3563.1
Tr"                                            V                   2            3            3            3            3           14      900       1.8234     28062        s8792      2,964.0     3,030.8    13,493.7
aIoUs_ mm                                                          2            5            5            5            5          22        100       2Oe6        519.7       533.2       547.0       5613
Subowl DagnoSs                                                                                                                                        l1,143.0    21,7M2     22,61       22,800.4    23,4601 10 1 .479,
3.CuLtTM"                                        y-                  6            2           2             -            -          10      1,000     6.078,0     2,078.7     21327             -          ,    10,29.4
4. Ada SOW                                                           4            4           4            4             4          20      1,200     4.st4       4,968a      5 118.5     5,251.6   s.31t2       26809.5
Sublotal Huan  _mou                                                                                                                                    302r8.7    43U 4.443    4544.                   ue6 447t.s8-    5.U.3
S. AWd R_asch As                                                                                                                                        5.085.0      5196.7     5,331.8     5.470.4          .    21.0631
C. PF npg  sn                                                                                                                                                      10 393 4     5533160  B                    -    20.7902
TOWItalRce  CoUt 418.7 C9,0344    552.                                                                                                                                                        U,4015T1     678 
Tetal                                                                                                                                                    U43.710.9.  1.19,737.6   536ss6.0    45,2163   465.8264 ' 3,724,257.2
*              w tiebjot puno0Uulein1dpi



70 -                                          ANNEX A
...--   so                        j* n;4t,en   -yy    att         I.o       *qr iv"e  na. 03t
X~ ~~~~~* z1 z  ss                                                   .e   351-I-  
..   ........R I   In. ..   o. o   . . . . . . .....  . . ..... . .    .   . .    .    .   .   . I   
. *  @ |  S S   o o    .   e  . . . .  . . .  . .
...        .. . .       -R  R  -Z t z                       t  w         - i !     i   
.   .    .  . r.  .     -    -   -                                       --T-
"~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                   II z1 I'     t   ttt     4  n^_  eyQ-,        g   o- -  II  .8    o ,
.....  . .           ..... . ..                               . J~~Ii
X   I.                             I                                  R I hi~ "    -    e  --"---    '.Ss -1    -F-e    1AI
I:                                                     - ......  .... . .  ..........
-H  _ i     .. . .. . ..   .   .     .     .... ..     ...
1-u         -------  -             ---    ------- ---
f. d d                    i  d                                                     d
IflUIIR  I RM~~~~  *I~~I~~  II



TO. 105 Pac a  Lw4 0t.C     A-.. h
it Cab
Al Dods  Ta. (LES)
f lnan                                                                  San cow                                                    TOWd hCit. Ci -hatig
URN        ion         ori iiOn    1                                                       ir   7      as   Ain            20         rc           is         tiOr       Ig M       I st       21t         Ta*
L SWegmaNCee
A. Pulls,       0yfw
comomad
C-.W"         --*N               3                                             5     2,0o       6.0005                                           -       ,000.0     0,01.                                            .0,MA
Cod                                                          3         -3                                         1.000     3,*--0                                                  3,0000      34.2                        -  *                  -     3,342*
atm.             T                             t                                                                            3,000.0          *                                      3.000.0     3,3420                                                  33- 42A
Et6 r _                                      t               7         .        .        .       -         7       100        700T-                                                   700.0      7000            *                    -           -       71t0
iAt-         _lif,t 1-,700*    11,7000                                                                                                                                                           20,6374           -          -                          20R637A
2 4WD                                                          2                      .             -        2    20,000     40,000.0                                                40,000.0    44.72.0           -          -  .44,72
be        '     Como                       us                5         -  -                           5  1 003m           0      9, - .------                                        s .0 . .O D.0                         O,i                     t 5 *     -  -_ 0.0
-Ai-oreek" MflTOO 1o70                                                                                                                          -           -          -              100,700.0   116.0104          -           *          *              110,0614
IL C_ontd au mic_tt
c    _                                    ,E__                         -        .        .       -         3      tODO      gas                                    -          -,0009             0,51                                                    .M i    it'
3        *        -        -        -         3     toOw       i,000.0         -          *.o                                      0                . i 0009 
Om                                           -               3         -        -        -        -        2      ia        to00ws           -          -                           3 ,000.0     342             -          -          .          .     2,342.1
FWA                 Tn                          d                                                                            '                                                 110,000.0    17.I450                                 *t7Al40D
i      tel  l_                             __Itomm T.sk                                                                     XODO9            *          -          .          .      000o0      3.342D                .                -          .      33423
Pbo*md                                       _                                                                                100oo      1009o          .          .                  20m.0       1I4        114wi                     -          -       Z?5J
boAf*sIwa                                    Id              2         -        -   .             -        2      I.Om    X aosO                  - -------  -                      too .,        m.t           -                     -                  2i
it  t_S m                                                                                                                   170,1009.      100.0          -          .-              70         1i0.,424       1143                      .          -   10.51t
2.-l_te
_     mC   _                                1b              10to       -                                  I -  10    10,000   loomos                    -                         IW,OOO.    101,005             -          -          -          -   101300.0
3.4t                                           t0              2         -        -        -                 2    29,0O      40.0D9.                      .          -               40,09       44,ii72D          .                    -           .    472D
Ct*   WC _flS Amor.MUt dw                                                                                                     SlO,I9         100.0          -                         3 310.200.0   330,4144     1143           -                         3 3. ,5211
C. T       __iefl
iLAk_r
aga  Satk                                  mib               9        2        2         -          13              OO   i D.O   24.009.0    24,000.0              -          .   166,009     1l0t,4s4D    24,it4t.1    25,592.7         *150.40J
Told w4m"SCa 4iUOw                                                                                                                          24,100.0   A0OD                         -   5T4900.0   Sit,9T    21,5.4    2050,7                .          . 91,52it
BPS,.e Noafloe
_essoldw                                 Pa.aI5                        .                         I        I I '-  *   15  .o0gu                    .0o0s0 -              On.0    27,000.0       %117.0           *    0,0571           -   10.102.1    2g.giO
T    __m                                  pa.I u            12         -       9         -       *        24      Imp       14.4005          -    7.200AD               7.2co.0     ma. 0      147 .2                 t977.5                C ON=2    303471
acos*                        -        2                2         10       ow        ,4000          -     I,itO90         *    I.it.        1000.0    SA4702.    1,919A                             Z020A       0,4102
_          _      _ I,umoowgs                                                                                                2XitO9.0         -     itw.0            *     gas       ".ao 0      20,174A           *   t9i43                 20*6m.6    11,741
2 V* Opadac- T_d                             M_                                                                              I1O.O0  IS,OO         IS,OOO.0                     -    44000.0    IgS6S.0   IS,Si.I   16,9964              .          .    4,7001
3 In.  Rea4d                                  yW              2         .       9         -       O        30       340      4,320 0          -    3,2400           -     ,240.0    wo,ows0      4,3761           -    5,4559           .    3.037A     11.4I62
4 C                                          a-k                                                                               ,009Dm    1,Ot7.0    1,000       1,00.0    I,OOOD      5,DO.0       COSA      1,039      *,OA       1,Ot7A,1 1to22         5,s3.3
VANNp          a                                                                                                               49,12s.0  1w,0009    37,3409       1,0000.   22.24090   12t6,ao     4,7S6J    19,i2AA    39,7113      1.04A I   24,il0.1   13Z,6A0
IL C       _t
I Vod                                                                                                                        t                100,os0m009    IOODOO  s,.0   ID,OOD.O   IO,ODO.O    SO,OOO  10,1309    10,343A    10,.6020    10,40i    11.225J  3,33632
L H| MeoWftt
Ib _a.dww                                  1 8P-             2        2        2        2        2        10 w2a  I.SO      t0o0       3o0000    3a0nu.       2,00s.0    3,0o0.s   IwS.OO       a3.0390    twig.0    3,190.1    3,2323      331.       10,000.0
T.d."                                     pa                 4        4        4        4        4        20      1,200     4,O9    4.i00.0    4A00o0        4*000    4*,O.0    24,000.0        4,002A     4,9il J     ,1195     5.251.S   50301       2510005
&" SW1                              _--'w              2        2        2        2        2        10       oO       1,900.0   1iO.O    1,9000        100.0    1,S00.0 0      000.0      A,OA       1,070.0    1.9194     IA0004     2,0J        0,431
50    d                                  Tp It               2        2        2        2        2        10       300        o000o     iOO.O        9AS       iO.0       K9.0      3,00as        0071       i2A        029.8     $ilS        0731      3,2012
VW               2                                   .         2       720      14400   .                  .                     .      1440.0  1,460.7                         __ -7
-atgSm        -                                                                                                           11o II,it409    10.20090   10,200.0   l0,20D0    10.2000    SZ440.0    11,7013    10,8012   10.076J    11,16.7   11,440.6   56,0790
3. Cawamfofau                                                                                                                 l .OD          O.o    l,          DOD. O I.OD OO *,OD O S.OOO.O      1,013.0    1,0093 ,0 #4 1                    ,1223     5,32 5J
3510 coS         2ovi04 ZO05   21.2000                                                                                                                 1200.0    2.)20.0   21.200.0   107.4400    z22342    2ZO4.0   220.J    23.154.0   22,797.7   11t407A
C. T S              ttdow.
I    _                                        _.i.2                                                          2       io       1,200.0          .                                      1.20D0      121.                                                    1.215.6
2 0                                          WA&i            1i                                             is        so        9W.o                                           .        wo.o        9117                          5 -     *                011.7
_ TS            ,t,tt                                                                                                            2100.0          *          -                          210DO        Z127.3          .                                       X    t
T ib_C_                                                                                                                          72-60.0   27200    S4,4400    22200.0   43200.    "S. _40.O    74,2J                X6AA   Z,310 I   24.205.7  46.7Q92    24i0i3J
T000O,00   41,300.0   ilZ4400    222000   43.4400   510,040.0   630,.0   03.721.6   67,0101    24.2W67    4g732J     o.3a2.1
zE
Z:



Tal 108. Kyrgyz Shap Breadms Aaochicn
DOtied CoAt
AN DeWed Table (US)
OuiNlee                                                                   Tdte Including Caflngseia
Unit      in         16.7        i          1n  2in                 TOs       Uni Cost      1n          1.7        in           In          2000        TOtS
L h     e  Cae
A. Group            Adelptf  dloass- bwvrn
Av                                                  yew              I          I          1           -                        3   150,000    151,950.0   156,900.7   159,954.1            -                467,604.8
Gm  Suepvbmn mnd           d sem                    yeWr            1           1          1           -I                       3    150,000    151,950.0   155,900.7   150,964.1           -           -    47,4.8
SubKe  Group       -        Adebleoy Uen                                                                                                         303,900.0   31 1,801.4    319,906.2             *        -    9356,.6
Computer                                          Copuer            4           -           .          -           -            4     2,00o      8,914.4           -            -           -           -      8,914.4
PW                                                 prlts            4           -          .           .           -            4     2,000      8,914.4           -           -            -           -      8,914.4
Sd_we                                               Ot              2           -          .           -           -            2     2.000      4,457.2           -            -           -           -      4,457.2
Phocopier                                           Pm              2                                  .           ,           2      1,000      2,228.6           -           -            -           -      Z228.6
Otto Furnji                                         set             6           1          3           -           -           10     1,500     10,028.7      1,714.9     5,278.5           *           -      17,022.1
Fo                                                  am              3           1          3           -           -            7     1,000      3.342.9      1,143.3     3,519.0           -           -      8,005.2
Sharey Pedgo                                      peckge                                                                                         3,342.9           -           -                               3,342.9
_EIs     -                                                                                                                                        41,229.1      2,868.2     8,797.5           -           -     52.884.8
C. VehIcle
Car                                                 car             I           -                                               1    20,000     2Z286.0            -           -                  -           22,286.0
4 WD                                                car             1           -          .           -           -            1    20,000     22,286.0           -           -            -           -     22,286.0
Sublot Vehicled                                                                                                                                   44572.0            -           -            -           -    44.5720
D. Trolng
Study Ptr                                          peson            ,           2          2           2          2            8      8.000            -     16,629.4    17,061.8     17,505.4    17,960.5    69,157.1
AueAount                                            nwk            24          12         12          12          12           72       150      3,646.8      1,870.8     1,919.4      1,969.4     2,020.6     11,427.0
Fid aW                                             peron            5          15         25          25         25            95       600      3,039.0      9.354.0    15,995.4     16,411.3    16,838.0    61,637.7
PFdwalFwmem Aaockllcon                              PFA            50         200        250         400        500         1,400        50      2,532.5    10,393.4    13,329.5      21,8817     28,063.3    76,200.4
Sublota  Trdlngn                                                                                                                                   9,218.3  _38247.6    48306.1         57,767.7    64.8824    218422.2
TotS R neatnt Coeta                                                                                                                                398,919.4   352,907.2    377,011.9     57,767.7    64,682.4  1,251,488.8
IL Recurrnt Cod
A So  lce and Al b'c
Oawlapmoatofter                                     oily            1           1          1           1           1            5     2,400      2,431.2      2,494.4     2,559.3      2,625.8     2,694.1     12,804.8
AslontDalopmntOtow                                  Moly            2           3          6           6          6            23      1,800      3.648.8     5,612.4     11.5167     11,816.1    12,123.4    44,715.4
Audi nmage                                          MIy              I          A          1           1           1            5     2,400       2,431.2     2,494.4     2,569.3      2,625.8     2,694.1     12,804.8
AeabtrtAuditMnar                                    oiy              -          -          1           2          5             8      1,800           -           -      1,919.4      3,938.7    10,102.8     15,961.0
Accounat                                            M/y             1           1          1           1          1             5      1,800      1,823.4     1,870 8     1,919.4      1,969.4     2,020.6     9,03.6
Fldw                                                 o/y            2           5          8          12         18            43       so        1,823.4     4,677.0     7,677.8     11,816.1    16,184.5    42,158.8
atca CII                                            o/y             3           4          7           7          7            28       700      2.127.3      2,910.1     5,225.2      5,361.0     5.500.4    21,124.0
DOku                                                MIy             1           1          1           I          1            5        600        607.8       623.6        639.8       656.5        673.5     3 201.2
Subtalel Sw e and Alowanrc                                                                                                                        14,891.1    20,682.8    34,016.9      40,80.4    51,973.3   162,373.5
L. Veic  opherpor
car                                                 pa.             1           1          1           1          1             5     3,000      3,039.0      3,118.0     3,199.1      3,282.3     3,387.6     18,006.0
4WD                                                 p.a.            2           3          6           6          6            23     3,000      6,078.0      9,354.0    19,194.5     19,693.6    20,2D5.6    74,525.7
ubO  Vehice peen                                                                                                                                   9,117.0    12,4721      22,393.6     22,975.8    23,573.2    90,531.6
attca S_plfl                                        p.              -           1          1           1          1             4     7,000            -      7,275.4     7,464.5      7,668.6     7867.7     30.258.2
Post atgrph                                         p.a.                                                                                         7,091.0      7,275.4     7,464.5      7,658.6     7,857.7    37,347.2
Pubkaln                                             p.a.            1           1          1           1          1             5     2,000      2,026.0      2,078.7     2,132.7      2,188.2     2,245.1     10,670.6
Ratabl                                              adto            4           5         10          10          1o           39     3,000      12,156.0    15,590.1    31,990.8     32,822.6    33,676.0    126,235.5
Audi                                                p.a.             1          I           1          1           1            5     10,000     10,130.0    10,393.4     10,2S 3.e    10,940.9    11,225.3    53,353.2
5ub_t Gee  ServIe                                                                                                                                  31,403.0    482818s ss 71e.2         61,20a.e    62,1      s 257,82.7
Totd Recurren coab
Tou tewn                                                                                                                                             55 41i. i   75,7e7.7   11e 126.7    i25,054.0    1u ,408.2   510,7e7.8
Tots                                                                                                                                                454,330.5    428,676.0   493,1U.5    182,821 8    203.2906e  1,762256 4
z
z



Table 107. VWoMdm n9 r*d Oually CAnN
DOWled Cof
All Debbld Tabi" (UST)
Q,_,Zb                                                                        Tom*b Ineuding ConUngmach
URN        is"          1U7            1          lo"          2000          Te1a1     Unlt Cost    1#           1n7         Iw_         1@          20Doe        Tobl
L h_*obm  Com
A. Tecncl A1_lee
wow4 Mul    Cow      w                mhn               S             9            9            -                         27 n   1,0C      1n ,SM o    i3O,966.6   114.361.5          -           -    392,sse.0
I_rdw of       l  b                  mnth               9            9             9            9            9            45      3,00D0    27,3510     28,02.1     Zt,7917     29,540.3    30.308.4   144,053.6
SulW   _        T     _ sdtw                                                                                                                 15u,ss.O    09,018.7   1b3,153.2     2s,uo.3    30,30t.4   s37,00s.6
L CtIl Ww
R_nm                 m         t                     4,00 0 2        to 0    4.eo       o       -            -   10,800             45    200,574.0   14U,052.2   211,13S.4                       - -  W,6.M.7
RohaNin   I         t C                qn                -        1,Z00                         --                      1,200       45            -     6i1736.7          ---                           611 736.7
SubW   CNN Wo                                                                                                                               200,574.0   205,788.9   211,139.4           -                 17.50z 4
C. E*d_ml
1. 6le " "
Fo1                                  "                2                         2             *-                         4    35,000     7t,0010            -    U,10St        -8                    180,11068
wow Pma (Aft)9                                        4             2            2            2            2            12    10,0 0  4U,67Z0         2zz,es4  23,45s.9    24,069.9    24,es.7   130,663.0
WK4                                  ram           5,000        5,000        5.eoo)       5,0C0        5,ODD         25,000        7     39000DD5     40,014.5    41,054.9    42.1223     43,217.5   205,409.7
we dbP                    *           w .20.                       20           20           2a           20           100        sO      1,114.3      1,143.3     i173.0      1,Z03.5     1,234.8     5,6S6.6
M.  o                                "                2             *2                        --                         4      7,0oD    15,e00.2           -     16.422.0                      -    3;o2022
Spam  _W Zs- 2                                                                   2                                       4     xooo       4.457.2           -      4,6SZ.0          --                 9,149.2
Pur'M                                a                2             -2                        --4    20.001)    44.572.0                                          4esr.91-                      -    91,491.9
"-hs wb eqo-Am                                        2             4            4            --1o                               750      1.671.5      3.420.8     3,5`19 0         -                   ,6M.3
C'" _he  d W*O                                        10            ---                                                 10      X500     27,85S7.5          -           -Z--                           7,857.s
_w Walu olal_m                                                                                                                            250,84e.2    67,453.0   219.350.4    67.395.7    6s,148.0    680,193.3
2.Om    0    _m
Dow                                  41               2             -2                        --4                                150        334.3           -       351.9           -           -        686.2
ahf                                  OR               e             -            s0 *0 -                                          s         n.s                     293.2                                571U
SW_                                                   2             *2                        --4                                seo      1.114.3                  1,173.                              Z   2s7.3 
Fie    t                                              4             -4                                                   a        250     11,114.3          -      1.173.0                             Z  287.3    -4
T *_ Mt                                               2             -2                        --4                                150        334.3           -       351.9           --                   686.2      W
Fu                                                    2             -2                        --4                               I,o=      2,2211.5                 2,346.0          -*                 4,574.0 
w a4"l_ .w0sun                                                                                                                              5,404.4           -      5,688.0          -1-1,093.4
sum" EVoa                                                                                                                                   2OZ250.5    s7.4530 o    zs,03s.4    67,305.7    0s,1411. o    e1,28s.7
CL Tdllks
ho Trq                                flo               4             3            3           2             -12    20,0C0                 t1,o40.0    6Z300.3    U3,981.6    43,7e3.4            -   251.W4.4
G                                     on               50           10o          150                  -                  300       600     J0,390.0    SZ300.3    95,97zs             *           .    188.72ns
SW"i                                                    20           40           40            --10o                              eom     12,i56.0    24,19U.1    25,5927              ............ . . .L sZOs
sub _   Tw                                                                                                                                  113ste.0    149U64.7    1sss546.8     4 u7e3 4          -    oZsfo.e
TOW kve_1wf COWb                                                                                                                              741,380.5  5U1925.3   784,t7t 9    140,60 J5    09,456.4  Z345.350.5
fIL RWM Comb
_    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yw                        2            2            2            2            2            10      1,SDo      3,039.0     3,118.0     3,1SS.I     3.2C7 3     3.397.6    11e,006.0
Go     _ (w Un)                      _xw               so            so          120          12D          12D           500        90      5,470.2      7,4U3.2    ii,518.7    11,816.1    12,123.4    48.409.0
Gravleogao                            "W                2             4            4            6            6            22      11,20     Z431.2       4,988.8     5,11t11.5   7.87n.4     8,082 2    26,499.2
_           _midm                     Yew               2             2            4           4             4            Is      1,2DD     Z431.2       Z494.4      5,11tS5     5,251.0     s,3u11.2   20,su3e
SOONy                                 Yew               2            2             4           4             4            16       eoo      1,U23.4      1 ttO t     3,838.9     3,9U1 17    4.0u1.11    isBssZO
_opa                                 monh               is           18           la           is           is            90       too     10,940.4    11,224.9    11,S1t .7    11,31&.1    12,123.4    57,021.4
Temp.lw                              monh              120          IGO     X0                240          240           950        W       7,2M6        O.O77.6  1 Z,7S6.3    15,7S4.8     1.164.5   51,986
DrW                                   Yew               2             2            4            4            4            le       720      1,4U8.7      1,4ee.e     3,07i. 1    3,151.0     3,23zs      Z,1X1Q,3
Su_e LeBr  _W"                                                                                                                               J4,87.7    42.654.4    56,175.9    ozuw1         64,5M.2   281,129.3
IL Op_or CeFb
I RN'  mnourit                                                                                           2,025.0    Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Xto  078.7  Z,132.7  Z118.2  Z245.1    IO,M7.f
C _  _                                                                                                   2C2fl0      Z0787       2,132.7      2,1U.2      2,2451     10,670.s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zo.0 Z0S.  Z32    IS.  Z24.     t's.
FuMwla                                                                                                                                      2,431.2      Z4s4.4      2,559.3   x 625.3  xe94.           12 *xto4-8 
_   4                                                                                                     808.5       519.7       a33.2        s47.0       581.3     2,667.7   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.  60.  M2  4.066.3 ZM.
34f"   Mo _  CA                                                                                                                               6,M8.7       7,111.4     7,357 9                 7,4.  7,45.5   3U,613.7 
TOW llow _   CON                                                                                                                               41,87".     4s,s2s.e    43,108       70YY.3       22U.:6  2s7.e4,3.0 
Towl                                                                                                                                             Q7u,n.s    31.751.2   86U,41Z86   211,138.7   17i,725.0   ZW46302 5 



I.~~~~~~~~~~~I
8 8                                                     . . . .8.1
-.s.    8~.m.-...  ...  .*.3...              ..2    . . . ..  .                    .,...... . . 
IL
Vt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
. . . . .  . . . . . . . .4.    4
v XgNNV                                              tL -3~~I~   ~                                                 ft



- 75 -                               ANNEX B
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX B
ENV1RONMENTAL MITGATION STATEMENT
1.    The Kyrgyz Republic, with the assistance of the Bank, is in the process of finalizing the
preparation of a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) that outlines high priority environmental
issues in various sectors of the economy. In agriculture and the rural sector in general, the draft NEAP
highlights the following issues as high priority:
(a)    Water management and water supply issues that have emerged with the failure to
maintain water infrastructure in urban and rural areas have important health and
agricultural production implications. Immediate investment in rehabilitation and essential
maintenance of water infrastructure, and reforms in water pricing policy (including water
charges for irrigation water) have been identified as priority strategies for mitigating the
problems of water supply contamination and falling agricultural productivity and incomes;
and
(b)    Poverty and some traditional practices in rural areas (e.g., grazing resource and forestry
management) have contributed to serious degradation of soils and grazing resources and
are reducing the income potential of local farmers. The draft NEAP recommends general
strategies for better management and reducing the pressure on these fragile natural
resources. The proposed project's interventions would help to implement, in targeted
fashion, some of these strategies.
2.    Land Use. The project will provide for a system for continual inventory and monitoring of
natural grazing resources. The analyses and output of this system would be used to protect
environmentally sensitive areas, giving particular priority to reducing overgrazing in natural pasture areas
where this is already a problem. The monitoring system would also provide data and information that
would be used by Agricultural Training and Advisory Services (ATAS) staff to guide farmers' decisions
regarding the use of local pastures in the short-run. The project would also support research and
development of pasture production improvement with emphasis on the spring-autumn production in two
agro-ecological regions in which pasture availability is a constraint to sheep production. Resulting
improved yields would reduce the existing pressure on natural pastures.
3.    Animal Husbandry Practices. Through the establishment of an agricultural advisory service
(ATAS) and sheep breeding research, the project would promote the following environment-friendly
practices among sheep and wool producers:
(a)    Sheep Husbandry. Private and cooperative sheep farmers would be provided with
advisory services covering all aspects of breeding plans, stocking and culling rates.
ATAS staff would focus their advice to farmers on strategic feeding of conserved fodder,
management practices to improve animal nutrition and reduce prevalence of diseases,
optimal stocking rates for sustainable grazing, and improved pasture establishment
techniques and management. Improved management of shedding during winter and the



- 76 -                               ANNEX B
heavy grazing intensity near the sheds in few weeks prior to and after winter shedding
would be improved to reduce pasture and soil degradation;
(b)    Veterinary Practices and Sheep Disease Control.   ATAS staff would focus on
enhancing farmers' skills to identify and control diseases and the integration of animal
disease control with husbandry and nutritional aspects. The use of chemicals for sheep
dipping would be discouraged. Instead, farmers would be encouraged to use spot
spraying methods on animals;
(c)    Animal Disease Control. The project would also provide for a nation-wide eradication
of Brucellosis in sheep and, consequently, in humans. An international quarantine
protocol with neighboring countries to prevent the spread of the disease in the region is
envisaged.  In controlling animal diseases, the Livestock Institute would develop
reconmmendations for ATAS staff for safe use by farmers;
(d)    Fertilizer Use. No extensive use of fertilizers is envisaged under the project, except in
the production of fodder. Since alfalfa would be the major fodder produced, its demand
for chemical fertilizers would be minimal, reducing the incidence of water pollution.
ATAS staff would encourage farmers to use organic fertilizers which are becoming
popular with the increase of prices for inorganic fertilizers;
(e)   Irrigation. No new irrigation schemes are planned under the project. Fodder production
under the project would be done in the existing schemes. ATAS staff would focus on
enhancing farmers' skills to use irrigation water more efficiently than hitherto; and
(f)    Wool and Meat Processing. The project would have indirect effects on the existing
practice of wool scouring and operation of slaughter houses. Since much of the scouring
would be done by the private sector, it is important that Government set specific
environmental standards which must be met by all scouring plants, particularly with
regard to affluent water treatmnent. Much of the project's lamb output would be marketed
live and internationally and would have no environmental impact.
4.    Conclusion. The project would have a mitigating impact on some of the major environmental
issues that have been identified in the draft NEAP as high priority. The project has a "B" environmental
assessment category.



- 77 -                              ANNEX C
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX C
ILPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) would contract the execution of the project to a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
2.    Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). With funding provided under the
Japanese Grant, prior to credit effectiveness, a procurement consultant would be dispatched to Bishkek
to assist the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) in the selection of the management firm that would
staff and supervise the PIU (terms of reference for the firm and each one of the three expatriate
consultants are attached as Annex F), as well as the initiation for the recruitment of the Extension
Director who would be in charge of establishing the Agricultural Training and Advisory Services
(ATAS). The PIU shall be financed by IDA.
3.    Agricultural Training and Advisory Services (ATAS). This component is to be implemented by
the Department of Livestock Management and Development (DLMD), under a contract awarded by the
PIU. ATAS would be set up by the head and staff of DLMD, reinforced by an expatriate Extension
Director (see 1 above); PIU would award a contract to this DLMD, and would supervise the development
of ATAS, on the basis of approved yearly budgets. ATAS shall be financed by IFAD.
4.    Animal Health. This component is to be implemented by the Directorate of Veterinary Services
(DVS) of MAF, under a contract awarded by the PIU, which would supervise the implementation of this
component. DVS would enlist the assistance of the Oblasts in which the eradication of Brucellosis is to
be started. PIU would issue a contract for the Brucellosis Expert, under the terms of reference appearing
in Annex F, who will act as Senior Adviser to the Director of DVS.
5.    Sheep Breeding Research. This component is to be implemented by the Livestock Research
Institute (LRI). The PIU would negotiate a contract with LRI for the delivery of sheep breeding services,
and the PIU would award the contracts* for the Animal Breeder, Reproduction Specialist and Animal
Nutrition expert. New breeding material (semen) would be procured through ICB, under the supervision
of PIU.
6.    Pastures and Fodder Resources. This component shall be carried out jointly by the State
Scientific Center of Land Resources and Use (for monitoring, evaluation, and grazing areas protection)
and the Scientific Industrial Enterprise (the ex-Pastures and Fodder Research Institute, for pasture
research support). During the first year, the activities will be supported by a pasture management
specialist (TA), while during the second and the third year, a Pasture Management Specialist will only
evaluate the activities by a visit of 2 months. A fodder haying/storing Specialist (TA) will be provided
during the first year for two months to review fodder haying and conservation strategies and advise on
improvements. Annual budgets would be established and approved and supervised by the PIU. PIU
would award the contracts for the Pasture Management Specialist, and the short-term Fodder Specialist.



- 78 -                             ANNEX C
7.    KSBA/Group Development Services.  PIU  would issue an invitation for bids from
NGOs/Consulting firms who are willing to organize the development of farmers and sheep breeders
groups, associations and/or cooperatives, according to the specifications of Annex F, and award a
contract to the selected firm. Under the terns of the Contract, in addition to group development, the
implementing NGO/Consultant would fulfill all the duties, legal or otherwise, of the future apex
institution, KSBA, until such time that the KSBA is formed, and its board of Directors legally elected.
PIU would supervise the implementation of the Contract on the basis of approved yearly budgets, and
also award the contracts* for the two expatriates who would fill the positions of Group Development
Advisor, and Group Supervisor and Financial Specialist. This component is to be financed by IFAD.
8.     Wool and Lamb Marketing System. This component will essentially be implemented by the
farmers/producers themselves, which are to be organized in groups by the NGO/Consultants. The
implementation of this component would be supervised and facilitated by this NGO/Consultant under
separate annual budgets to be approved by the PIU.  These budgets will include all expenditure for
equipment, salaries and recurrent costs for the satisfactory implementation of the component, which is
to be financed by IDA.
9.    Details of the Implementation Plan are shown in the following diagrams.



.   .. . . . . ..   .. . . . .   . .. . . ... .. .
Ii          II~~~~~~~~~~~~i
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
ko (
I ''I-I-----~~~~~~~~1
10
00
a
3 XTNN-V       6L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Mu  ~~~~  MM   M  ~~~~~   MUM   ~~~~~b
.. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .  .. . .   . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .   . . .. . . .  . . . ..   . . . . . .. . . . . . . . ..W.. . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
II                    '''''Ii   iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Ij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
liii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
08 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



I f'IIiufj. I1i111i
10
.   .   . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . .   . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .
3.
a.1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0'at
DYmv                                                isT -



Sheep and Wool Private Enterprise Develoment (SPED)
11996      1       1997        1         1998              1999                2000                2001
ID    Task Name             _Qtr I Qtr 2|Qtr 3|Qtr4 1Qtr tr Qtrt ZQtrt 3Qtr4 1Qtr tr Qtr2 QtrSQtr 4|Qtr I |Qtr 2|Qtr 3|Qtr 4|Qtr 1 lQtr 210tr 3Qtr 4t  Qtr 2Qtr3Qtr4
I    L Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Associafon
2    Prepare ICB procurement package to contract NGO consuftants
S    Complete ICB Procurement
4    Bank Review bid documente
6    Bids issued
6    Contractor setected/awarded by PIU
7    Contract organize SPGA & RABA                                                  _
a    Provide key technical assistance
9    Training                                                              __                                                       ___
10        Study Tour                                                                _
11       Auditaccounts
12        Field Staff                                                                  _                _
13        Private Farmers Association                                                 _
14   Affiliate SPGA & RSBA into KSBA                                                      _            _
15   Incorporate KSBA
16   Contractor hand over the mgt.of KSBA to the selected committee
17   Supervision of KSBA                                                                                ____                           _
18   II. Wool Marketlng and Information Service
19   PIU subcontract the implementation of WMS
20   Contractor recruit wool marketing specialist
21   Develop Wool Marketing system
22   Build wool marketing and dispilay facility in Bishkek
23   Faciliate wool sales                                                       I
24   Disseminate ln'tl market info, to local producers & buyers 
25   Establish Regional Wool Stores by RSBAs                                     _                      _



I          It  II *3    F M    Ii         I  I  I U  S M
I I I I ~I I 
~~~Ii                                   11  E
1 ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
cr
cir 
q rni
10
ci
0 
ci
10
Ci
0
D XVN                              - 8-



i rn     m m p r m * m ~.               -l          0 &   -am rl-
a                                     U     4 *                  
cn ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~      u   u       ~       ~       -    -
0~~~~~~~~~~~
W~~~~~~~~~~
3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
-010
4
40ar
Ca)
..   . .   .   . .. .. . .. .. . .    . .     .. .. .. . ..   . . ..   . .. . .. .     .    . .. . .   ..   . . .. .. . ..   . .. . .. .   .   . .     . . .. ..   .   .   .. .
C.)
0r
Z) XaNRV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 8S -                                                                                ANNEX C
ab .............................................................................................................
.aaXj
a    4aaxN                                                                                



PRoJECT OBjEnvEs AND MONITORABLE INDICATORS
Project Objectives                     Activities or Strategies                        Monitorable Indicators
1. Increase profitability and     Promote sheep breeder associations.             Increase in production and productivity of lamb (5
efficiency of sheep and wool   Provide training and advisory services to sheep  million sheep) and wool (14,200 tons) at full
farming.                        producers.                                     development.
Develop competitive markets for lamb and wool.    Increase in gross farm incomes by 115 percent at
full development.
Adoption rates of new technologies by sheep
producers averaging 12 percent per annum.
Reduction in use of concentrates in winter to
zero by project year 9. 
2. Create viable producers'        Organize sheep breeders' and grazing associations.   Growth in membership of associations by 20  0
associations.                  Registration of sheep breeders' associations.   associations each year.
Training of sheep producers.                    Financial viability of sheep breeders'
associations (70 percent viable).              I
Number of associations established (150 associations
at full development).
Business throughput of associations (80 percent of                o
lamb and wool value at full development).                        o,
Incidence of brucellosis in sheep (less than 0.05     
percent at full development).                      t
Availability of and quality of advisory services
to producers (full coverage at full development).
3. Develop competitive markets for  TA and training for market and information    Increase in share of good quality lamb and wool (65-
lamb and wool to obtain         development.                                    70 percent top quality).
premium prices.                Development of wool stores and lamb auction     Increase in average product export prices (up to 70
facilities.                                    percent of world market prices at full
Development of wool testing facility.          development).
Train farmers in proper wool shearing and       Trend in trade margins and marketing costs (not
handling.                                       exceeding 30 percent at full development).
Percentage of high grade wool per district/
oblast (averaging 80 percent top quality).
4. Improve management and          Assume adequate grazing rights.                 Quality and quantity of winter and fall pastures (85
sustainability of range pastures    Enforce improved pasture and fodder management    percent at full development).
and fodder.                     practices.                                     Trend in sheep stocking rate and average                          I
Assess and monitor status of pastures.           management units (double original number at full                 x
development).
Number of violations against proper pasture
management (not exceeding 10 percent of
licensees).



- 87 -                               ANNEX E
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX E
SCHEDULE OF PROJECT SUPERVISION
Semester                   Expected Staff Reguirements               Staff Input
(staff weeks)
FY97 I
Accountant/Procurement                          4
Disbursement
Economist
FY97 II                    Livestock Specialist                             6
Extension Specialist
Animal Breeding Specialist
FY98 I                     Livestock Specialist                             4
Cooperative Specialist
Wool Marketing Specialist
FY98 II                    Animal Breeding Specialist                       4
Range Management Specialist
Procurement Specialist
(Mid-Term Review)
FY99 I                     Economist                                        12
Range Management Specialist
Wool Marketing Specialist
Cooperative Specialist
Livestock Specialist
FY99 II                    Economist                                        4
Financial Analyst
FYOO I                     Livestock Specialist                             4
Range Management Specialist
Wool Marketing Specialist
FYOO II                    Economist/Financial Analyst                      6
Livestock Specialist
Cooperative Specialist
Range Management Specialist



- 88 -                             ANNEX F
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOpmNT PRojECr
ANNEX F
A. TORS FOR PROJECr IMLEAMTION UNITU
Head of the PIU
(1)    Responsibilities: The PIU will be contracted by the Minister of Agriculture and Food to manage
the execution of the project. The PIU will have operational and financial autonomy, including
the authority to select and sub-contract specific project activities or components to local and
international consultants or government agencies. The PIU will be managed by a Head who will
be internationally recruited. The PIU Head will be fully accountable to the Minister for
satisfactory execution of the entire project. His specific responsibilities will include:
(a)    Overall management of the project, including providing guidance and direction in the
transformation of the Kyrgyz sheep industry into an internationally competitive and
export oriented production system;
(b)   Personnel management and training;
(c)    Management of procurement of goods and services under IDA/IFAD guidelines and
oversight of sub-contracts with project implementation agencies;
(d)   Proper management of funds through introduction of a new project accounting and
financial control system consistent with IDA/IFAD requirements, and budget planning
and control;
(e)    Establishment of a system for project monitoring and reporting;
(f)    Preparation of a Project Operational Manual; and
(g)   Arrangement for timely audit of all project accounts.
(2)   Oualifications and Experience:
(a)    Proven extensive international experience and technical ability to manage large livestock
projects of the scale of the SDP and good knowledge of sheep products markets at
international level;
(b)   Fluent in English; knowledge of Russian will be an advantage;
(c)    Proven skills in commercial negotiations at the highest level, and in dealing with senior
government officials and business executives;



- 89 -                               ANNEX F
(d)    Sound knowledge of World BanklIFAD project implementation procedures, including
procurement, disbursements, and reporting and monitoring;
(e)    Ability to lead, manage and motivate a team of international and local consultants to
achieve results; and
(f)    Advanced University Degree.
(3)    Duration: Assignment will initially be for two years, extendable to a period to be mutually
agreed at renewal.
2.    Finance Manager
(1)    ResRonsibilities: The Financial Manager (FM) will be internationally recruited to assist and be
responsible to the PIU Head in carrying out all project responsibilities related to financial matters,
including preparation of work plans, budget planning and control, introduction of a new project
accounting and financial control system, management of the Project Account and special accounts, project
reporting and monitoring, and arrange timely audits of all project accounts, and preparation of a Project
Operational Manual.  He will particularly ensure that project funds flow on a timely basis to
implementing agencies and special accounts are replenished on a timely basis. He will also train local
counterpart staff.
(2)    Oualifications and Experience:
(a)    Proven international experience and technical ability in setting up a project management
and accounting information system in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
standards;
(b)    MBA, or similar accounting/finance professional qualification;
(c)    Fluent in English, knowledge of Russian will be an advantage;
(d)    Familiarity with IDA/IFAD procurement and disbursement procedures; and
(e)    Proven experience in training local counterpart staff.
(3)    Duration: Assigmnent is initially for two years, renewable on basis of mutual agreement.
3.    Procurement Specialist
(1)    Responsibilities: The Procurement Specialist will be locally recruited to assist and be responsible
to the Head of the PIU for implementing project responsibilities in respect of management of international
and local procurement of goods and services in accordance with IDA/IFAD guidelines, preparation and
supervision of sub-contracts of specific project activities or components with local and international
consultants and government agencies, preparation of a Project Operations Manual, review of performance
of sub-contractors, and training of local staff and sub-contractors in procurement matters.



- 90 -                                ANNEX F
(2)    Oualifications:
(a)    Proven experience and technical ability to manage international procurement of goods and
services in accordance with IDA/IFAD guidelines;
(b)    Working knowledge of English, fluent in Russian;
(c)    Proven experience and skills in procurement negotiations and in dealing with senior
business executives and government officials;
(d)    University Degree in Management; and
(e)    Technical ability to train local staff and subcontractors in procurement management.
(3)    Duration: Assignment is initially for three years, renewable for additional two years upon
satisfactory performance during mid-term review of the project.
4.    Senior Livestock Technical Adviser
(1)    Responsibilities: The Senior Livestock Technical Adviser would advise and assist the Head of
the PIU in the technical coordination and program management of the project.
(2)    Duties:
(a)    Advise the Head of the PIU on project-related technical matters;
(b)    Review the programs and activities of the different services involved in project
implementation and evaluate their technical and operational efficacy--and on this basis,
prepare the Annual Work Program;
(c)    Prepare and issue the bids for the different sub-contracts to be awarded under the project;
participate in the negotiations and supervise their implementation;
(d)    Prepare and submit to the Head of the PIU semi-annual and annual progress reports on
the implementation of the Work Program; the annual report should include an evaluation
of the progress achieved, and comments on shortfalls, problems encountered and
measures introduced to overcome these difficulties;
(e)    Train counterpart personnel in the PIU, coordinate program planning exercises, and
internal program evaluation;
(f)    Assist the Head of the PIU in representing the project to other local or international
organizations, and in seeking international funding sources to meet the project's financial
needs; and
(g)    Ensure smooth working relationship among the staff of the various services implementing
the project components, and of the consultants and technical assistance personnel; and



- 91-                                  ANNEX F
(h)    Involve his local counterpart in all these duties, and train and supervise him accordingly.
(3)    Oualifications and Experience:
(a)    Fluent knowledge of English; knowledge of Russian would be an advantage;
(b)    Post-graduate degree in animal science, or a related field, with at least five years of
experience in implementing or assisting in the implementation of livestock projects
preferably in developing countries;
(c)    Demonstrated skills in interpersonal relations and administration, and shown ability of
a team leader; and
(d)    Special consideration will be given to candidates being familiar with sheep breeding and
wool marketing, mountainous farming, peasant farming systems, farmer organization, and
having worked in Central Asia previously.
(4)    Duration: The assignment would initially be for three years, extendable to five years if deemed
necessary after the mid-term review of the project.
B. TORs FOR AGRICULTURAL TRANING AND ADVISORY SERVICES (ATAS)
1.    Extension Advisor
(1)    Responsibilities:  The Consultant would be required to assist in the creation of ATAS in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF), in Bishkek. In a first phase, ATAS would be involved in
livestock extension and training. The Consultant will work with the Director of the Department of
Livestock Management and Development (DLMD) to develop an advisory service for private livestock
producers and put in place an institutional framework, in consultation with existing donor funded
extension activities. Specifically, he shall have the responsibility of producing all extension and technical
services literature, organize training seminars for newly hired extension staff (who may have no practice
of extension and/or working with private farmers), and as a second step, conduct the same seminars with
farmers and/or farmer groups. For these activities, the project has provided funds to hire an Extension
Specialist to assist the Director during 12 months in each Year 1 and 2 of project implementation.
(2)    Duties: The Extension Advisor's first task is to produce a fact-finding report on the livestock
husbandry, production and feeding practices and wool handling system needed in the country. This will
be accomplished through the Breeders Associations, ATAS Specialists and Agents, and Technical
Specialists in other project components. He and this team will then:
(a)    Determine appropriate training programs for staff of ATAS and sheep breeders;
(b)    Review the training facilities available and their standard;
(c)    Identify potential sources of livestock advisors/agents and their training needs;
(d)    Prepare a detailed three-year training program, and liaise with the Agricultural Institute
for teaching/training agricultural staff in livestock practices. If positive, arrange, in



- 92 -                               ANNEX F
consultation and agreement with the PIU, for a contract with the Institute to train the
livestock extension staff needed at ATAS; and
(e)    Supervise the implementation of the contract with the Agricultural Institute.
(3)    Oualification and Experience: MSc or PhD in agricultural communication or extension, with at
least 5 years experience in planning and implementing agricultural and livestock extension programs for
smallholder farmers in developing countries.
(4)    The specific topics of extension messages and the training would be market driven, but are
expected to include, inter alia: sheep lambing, husbandry and health, shearing techniques and wool
handling, wool classing, wool pressing and packaging, general shed management and machinery
maintenance, fodder production and conservation, and pasture management. The Consultant will liaise
with the Wool Marketing Expert who will be hired to coordinate the Wool Marketing System component,
and who will assist in those matters that are specific to him, such as wool classing and packaging.
(5)    With the first group of extension staff trained at the Institute, the Consultant will hold
demonstration and seminars among private farmers consecutively in each of the six Oblasts of the Kyrgyz
Republic. Extension staff trained to serve in the field, and those stationed in each one of the Oblasts,
would take a central part in this aspect of training.
(6)    The Consultant's local counterparts would be the Director of the Department of Livestock
Management and Development (DLMD). Both will liaise closely with the NGO/Consultants carrying out
the Group Development activities which would lead to the creation of the Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders
Association; this liaison shall take place at every level, village, rayon and oblast. The Consultant would
keep close relationship with the Senior Livestock Advisor in the PIU.
C. TORs FOR KYRGYZ SHEEP BREEDERS ASSOCIATION (KSBA)
1.     Group Development Advisor
(1)    ResDonsibilities: The Group Development Advisor will have responsibility for the establishment
within KSBA of the promotional and technical services for the primary village associations which will
be the shareholders and eventual owners of the KSBA and regional associations. The assignment will
be for a period of three years and the selected candidate will work as a member of the KSBA
management team.
(2)    Duties: On the basis of project documents, namely the Loan Agreements and the Staff Appraisal
Reports, the Group Development Advisor will:
(a)    Establish the organizational structure of the KSBA Group Development Division to (i)
carry out its development and promotional duties; and (ii) to provide the necessary and
sufficient company secretarial, audit, supervision and inspection services for the orderly
expansion of member groups' activities;
(b)    Draw up and recruit the initial staff establishment;
(c)    Prepare the Annual Work Program and Budget for the first year of KSBA operations;



- 93 -                                ANNEX F
(d)    Review and revise the draft by-laws of the Association to ensure they meet the provisions
of Kyrgyz law and cater to the requirements of member groups;
(e)    Review and revise the draft by-laws for member groups;
(f)    Draw up a manual of operating procedures for divisional promotional activities and for
the audit, supervision and inspection procedures required by the terms of KSBA and
groups' by-laws;
(g)    In cooperation with the Group Training Advisor, prepare model book-keeping and
accounting procedures for member groups; prepare the financial reporting and routines
to satisfy the requirements of the model by-laws; prepare a simple but comprehensive
manual for the maintenance of member groups' finances;
(h)    In cooperation with the Group Training Advisor, prepare a simple but comprehensive
manual for the conduct of group affairs, which shall include, inter alia, meetings (General
and Committee), voting rights and procedures, the rights and duties of members, the
election, duties and responsibilities of the officers of the group;
(i)    Prepare and put in place the financial and progress reporting procedures for group
development affairs as required by PIU; and
(j)    Have general responsibility for the orderly implementation of the component and
management of the Division during the period of the consultancy.
(3)    Oualifications
Essential qualifications for the position are:
(a)    A degree or professional qualification in economics or finance;
(b)    A minimum of 15 years of senior management experience in cooperative development
(eg. as a Registrar of cooperative societies), or in a commercial organization in the
private, cooperative or public sector;
(c)    Good knowledge of computer applications and demonstrable command of financial
administration;
(d)    Experience in the management of projects funded by IBRD, IFAD, EEC or other bi- and
multi-lateral donors;
(e)    Field experience in FSU or other Eastern European countries; and
(f)    Fluency in written and spoken English.
It is unlikely that candidates under the age of 45 will have the requisite field experience. The
position calls for a high degree of self-reliance; the ability to live and work in an unstructured
situation with minimal facilities; and the capacity to motivate inexperienced staff. In particular,



- 94 -                                ANNEX F
experience in the coordination of the activities of a number of agencies to achieve the goals of
the commercial and rural development will be of value.
(4)    Duration. The period of the appointment will be 36 months and the appointee with be based in
Bishkek.
2.     Business Manager
(1)    Responsibilities: The Business Manager, as the Chief Executive Officer of KSBA, will have
responsibility for the conduct of its affairs until the formal handover of the organization and its finances
to a properly constituted Board of Directors of the Association in accordance with the provisions of its
by-laws.
(2)    Duties: On the basis of project documentation, namely the Loan Agreements and the Staff
Appraisal Reports, the Business Manager will:
(a)    Prepare the Annual Work Program and Budget (AWP/B) for the first year of KSBA
operations;
(b)    Review and revise the draft by-laws of the Association to ensure they meet in full the
requirements of Kyrgyz law;
(c)    Define and put in place the administrative organization of the Association;
(d)    Draw up a manual of operating procedures for KSBA administration;
(e)    Draw up and recruit the initial staff establishment;
(f)    In conjunction with the consultant accountant, open the books of account; prepare the
initial capital structure of the Association; set out the basic accounting and book-keeping
procedures; and prepare the financial reporting routine; prepare a detailed manual for the
administration of the Association's finances;
(g)    In conjunction with the Head of the PIU, draw up a schedule of investment for the KSBA
subsidiaries;
(h)    Draw up the Articles of Association (or By-laws as appropriate) for the registration of
KSBA subsidiaries;
(i)    In conjunction with PIU and consultant staff, prepare the AWP/B for each subsidiary;
* (j)    Establish and the operational financial and administrative routines for each subsidiary to
ensure conformity with KSBA procedures;
(k)    Prepare and put in place the financial and progress reporting procedures for KSBA and
its subsidiaries as required by PIU;



- 95 -                               ANNEX F
(1)    Together with the Group Development Specialist, draw up and put in place the
organization and administration of the Group Development Division; establish its
promotion, audit, inspection and field supervision routines; prepare the group, member
and staff training programs;
(m)   In co-operation with the Head, PIU, establish the operational duties and working
procedures for the Commercial and Services Divisions of the Association;
(n)    Establish the on the-job and formal training programs and routines for the staff of KSBA
and its subsidiaries; and
(o)    Have general responsibility for the orderly implementation of the component.
(3)    Oualifications: Preference will be given to those candidates with:
(a)    Experience in the management of projects funded by IBRD, IFAD, EEC or other bi- and
multi-lateral donors;
(b)    Field experience in FSU or other Eastern European countries;
(c)    A good knowledge of computer applications;
(d)    Commercial or public sector experience of financial planning, and in particular of
detailed budget preparation and processing;
(e)    A degree or professional qualification in economics or finance;
(f)    A minimum of 15 years of senior management experience in a commercial organization
in the private, co-operative or public sector; and
(g)    Fluency in written and spoken English.
It is unlikely that candidates under the age of 45 will have the requisite field experience. The
position calls for a high degree of self reliance, the ability to live and work in an unstructured
situation with minimal facilities; and the capacity to motivate inexperienced staff. In particular,
experience in the co-ordination of the activities of a number of agencies to achieve the goals of
the commercial and rural development will be of value.
(4)    Duration: The period of the appointment will be 36 months and the appointee will be based at
Bishkek.
D. TORs FOR WOOL MARKETING CENTER (WMC)
1 .    Wool Marketing Coordinator
(1)    Responsibilities: The Wool Marketing Coordinator will work in close cooperation with the
Consultants entrusted with the promotion of sheep producers' groups or associations. The new system
being based on farmers and producers and/or groups of the same, the Coordinator would keep permanent



- 96 -                                ANNEX F
contact with the NGO/Consultants who would set-up these primary groups and, eventually, advise on the
creation of the apex institution, the Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association (KSBA). The Wool Marketing
Center would become part and property of KSBA. The Wool Marketing Coordinator, identified and
contracted by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), will keep the PIU fully informed of his activities
and copy all his progress, and other, reports to the Unit.
(2)    Duties:
(a)    One of the objectives of the project would be to assist the sheep industry to set up a new
wool marketing system built around the following structure, and designed to maximize
the returns to the farmers;
(b)    Grading at the local (county) wool collection center, which is of crucial importance to
ascertain homogeneity and quality of the wool;
(c)    Local wool stores to be owned and operated by producer groups, operating as marketing
cooperatives;
(d)    The new marketing system would incorporate incentives for improved wool production
and harvesting practices by producers, through verification of wool quality by
independent testing, marketing in lot sizes accepted by international buyers; and
(e)    The Wool Marketing Coordinator would establish the WMC and facilitate its adoption
and implementation of the following actions (the list is not exhaustive, and the Consultant
could suggest and add other actions):
(i)    make arrangements for the efficient storage of greasy wool and facilitate the
sampling of greasy wool for testing and display purposes;
(ii)   develop and implement a wool store inspection service to enhance the quality of
greasy wool clip preparation and sale lot presentation standards;
(iii)   continuously introduce improvements and implement programs to improve the
quality of Kyrgyz wool including a register of qualified woolclassers, and a
mechanism by which wool classed by any registered woolclasser may be
identified and made secure;
(iv)   develop and operate efficient and effective wool selling facilities, which may
include auctions, tenders and/or continuous bid-offer facilities;
(v)    develop and implement an internationally acceptable set of wool selling
regulations for the purpose of facilitating security and confidence by all parties
involved in greasy wool sale transactions;
(vi)  implement an effective wool clearing house system to enhance efficient delivery
of wool to buyer's transhipment and final destination points; and
(vii)  contract the testing of wool samples by local and foreign laboratories.



-97-                                  ANNEX F
The final target is to promote buyers' confidence in wool quality control and adherence to
contracts. This would be facilitated by the creation of a Wool Marketing Center (WMC) which
would have as objectives to improve the quality of Kyrgyz wool, advertise and promote wool and
sheep products both within and outside the Kyrgyz Republic by increasing the level of
competition among buyers of Kyrgyz wool.
(3)    Oualifications: The Wool Marketing Coordinator must have had a long career in the wool
processing and trading, of which at least 10 years in a position of responsibility in the technical and
marketing aspects of the industry, with full knowledge about international transactions. The specialist
would have a proven track record in demonstrating ability to interact fruitfully with producers and farmer
organizations. Understanding of, and experience in quality control and marketing of hides, skins and
leather, is desirable. Fluent knowledge of English is required; knowledge of Russian would be an asset.
(4)    Duration: His stay in Kyrgyz is estimated to last the first three years of project implementation.
He will have the assistance of an International Expert on Testing/Quality for three months in the first
year, and another three-month follow-up visit the following year. Other short-term consultants that would
be made available would be in shearing, grading and sorting, for periods of six consecutive months each
in the first year, with the possibility of bringing them back when and if necessary.
2.     Testing/Quality Controller
(1)    Responsibilities: He/she will visit Bishkek for 3 months per year, during the two first years of
implementation, at the time considered most appropriate, to assist in the development of quality control,
and the adoption of work practices and procedures that meet international standards. These standards are
to be reached in the Wool Marketing Center, and all regional stores.
(2)    Duties: He/she should submit reports to the PIU with recommendations will be produced at the
end of each visit. Specific tasks to be addressed include:
(a)    Training of employees in testing and quality control of all work practices;
(b)    Assistance in setting up documentation systems, including pre and post sale documents
and sale execution records;
(c)    Training of auctioneers; establishment of efficient storage and handling methods; control,
classification and valuation of wool types to be permitted in the sale arena; and
(d)    Core and grab sampling techniques; and coordination of storage, selling and handling
with testing and recording of information.
(3)    Oualifications: The Testing/Quality Controller must possess a long experience in wool testing,,
processing and quality control, in positions of responsibility. He should be experienced in training,
motivating and communicating with people, having successfully carried-out training programs of the kind
described above. Knowledge of Russian would be an asset.
(4)    Duration: The two first years of implementation.



- 98 -                                ANNEX F
E. TORs FOR ANIMAL HEALTH SERvIcEs (AHS)
1.    Sheep Veterinary Specialist
(1)    Responsibilities: The Consultant would serve as Senior Advisor to the Director of Veterinary
Services (DVS) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in Bishkek, with whom he will work closely
and associate him in every aspect of his activities. He would have special responsibility to plan, organize
and follow-up on all aspects of Sheep Health and disease control programs. To that effect, he will review
previous Brucellosis Control campaigns, identifying strengths and weaknesses. In particular, he would
review plans and progress of the 1995-2000 campaign, and recommend additional steps and/or
improvements necessary to add effectiveness to that campaign.
(2)    Duties: The Sheep Veterinary Specialist, in concert with the epidemiologist and production
specialists will:
(a)    Determine what animal health problems will require veterinary services and supplies or
medication, and develop training and management programs for their control. Examples
are: internal and external parasites, foot rot, pizzle rot in rams, nutritional deficiencies
or toxicities; and
(b)    Organize a seminar on his conclusions and findings, in coordination with the Senior
Livestock Advisor in the PIU; prepare and leave a report on the visit with the Director
of DVS and the PIU, in which he would recommend the timing of his next visit.
(3)    Oualifications and Experience: Degree at least at the Doctorate level in Veterinary Medicine,
with extensive experience in the planning, organization and implementation of livestock disease control
programs, especially brucellosis control under conditions comparable to those in the Kyrgyz Republic.
(4)    Duration: His first visit will be for 2 months at the start of the implementation of the component,
and a follow-up second visit of one month in the following year.
2.     Epidemiologist
(1)    Responsibilities: This consultant shall review records and all available information on sheep
diseases in the Kyrgyz Republic, and on the range and incidence of these diseases in recent years. He
shall determine if epidemiology factors characterize the spread of any one of these diseases.  He shall
also review and assess the methods used in the diagnosis of these diseases, and, if necessary, recommend
improvements in diagnosis, data collection, and reporting.
(2)    Duties: He/she shall:
(a)    Establish, in cooperation with the local epidemiology specialists and the epidemiology
units, a detailed survey system for the recording of disease, with emphasis on
determining epidemiology factors;
(b)    Train staff in these tasks, including advice on laboratory testing/confirmation. He will
assist as necessary in the selection of equipment being provided for this component;



- 99 -                                ANNEX F
(c)    Keep the Sheep Veterinary Specialist, the Director of the Veterinary Services, and the
Senior Livestock advisor in the PIU fully informed of his activities.
At the end of his stay, he shall:
(d)    Present a seminar on his conclusions, and leave behind a book of instructions on the
follow-up involved; and
(e)    Prepare and leave a report on his visit, and recommend on the timing of his next visit.
(3)    Qualifications and Experience: Epidemiologist with extensive experience in Veterinary R&D,
particularly related to disease survey.
(4)    Duration: 6 months in Year 1, followed by a one-month follow-up visit in the second year.
F. TORs FOR SHEEP BREEDING RESEARCH (SBR)
1.    Animal Breeding Specialist
(1)    Responsibilities: The Animal Breeding Specialist will work with the Livestock Research Institute
to develop a sheep breeding improvement program. As a first priority, he will assess the preferences of
the producers, in order to:
(a)    Evaluate the sustainability of the genetic base available in the country, its quality and
uniformity;
(b)    Determine the future directions in breed development (e.g, in the case of sheep, the
need for meat and/or wool or other production goals); and
(c)    Review the structure of breeding research, and its linkage with private farmers.
The Animal Breeding Specialist will be assisted in the above tasks by two short-term consultants,
a Reproduction Specialist (two month each during the first two years), and a Nutrition/Feed
Analysis specialist (two month each during the first two years). The Sheep Breeding Specialist
will prepare the terms of reference of these two consultants, and time their visits on the basis of
his work plan.
(2)    Duties: On the basis of the above, and considering potential markets for sheep products, the
Consultant will develop a dynamic genetic base to optimize both wool and meat production for maximum
profitability.
To achieve the above objectives, the Consultant will:
(a)    Evaluate existing breeding activities at Sheep and Livestock Breeding Farms, assist in the
design of future breeding plans, the selection of stations and farms to be supported, and
methods of upgrading sheep breeding;



- 100 -                               ANNEX F
(b)    Determine the type of genetic material required for the upgrading program, and if this
material should be imported in the form of semen or rams;
(c)    Provide technical training as necessary to local experts, including computer techniques
required for statistical analysis of breeding data;
(d)    Assist as necessary in the selection of equipment being provided to the sub component;
(e)    Organize seminars on research findings and recommnendations in coordination with the
Livestock Institute and the Senior Livestock Advisor in the PIU; and
(f)    Prepare and leave a report on the visit to the above two officials, and recommend on the
timing of his next visit.
(3)    Oualifications: The Animal Breeding Specialist will have a degree in animal science, or a related
field, at the Doctorate level, with a broad background in animal breeding, and specialized knowledge
about sheep/wool production. He must also possess extensive experience in planning and implementing
breeding programs using the most modern procedures and technology. He would have worked for a
significant part of his career in an area with comparable geographic conditions as the Kyrgyz Republic.
(4)    Duration: The Consultancy would be initially for 6 months, followed by another 6-month in Year
2 of the project implementation, and finally one month visit in each of the subsequent years.
G. TORS FOR PASTURES AND FODDER RESOURCES (PFR)
1.    Range and Pasture Management Specialist
(1)    Responsibilities: The Range and Pasture Management Specialist will advise the State Scientific
Center for Land Resource and Use (SSCLRU) in all matters pertaining to pasture monitoring, production
and management. He will start his assignment by reviewing all the available information on current land
resource and pasture availability, and such matters as privatization procedures and policies, and "public"
land management.
(2)    Duties:
(a)    Review the state of monitoring activities and recommend improvements as necessary.
To that end, he will visit as many agro-ecological zones in the Republic to become
familiar with diversity of pasture types, and various monitoring systems;
(b)    Develop the establishment of analytical techniques of examining data, and train, as
necessary, local staff in collating and analyzing results. He will initiate consideration of
options for alternative more cost efficient systems of monitoring from Year 3 of the
project;
(c)    Develop at strategic locations optimum management systems, and recommended pasture
forage mixes, as a part of ATAS demonstration farmers. Specific attention should also
be given to restoring marginal wheat/barley lands to produce pastures;



-101-                                 ANNEX F
(d)    Organize a seminar on his findings to the senior staff of SSCLRU, and prepared a
handbook on conservation and monitoring of pastures in the Kyrgyz Republic; and
(e)    Keep the Senior Livestock Advisor in the PIU regularly informed of his work, and copy
to him the reports he issues. He shall prepare, before his departure, a report on his visit.
(3)    Oualifications. Range and Pasture Management Specialist with extensive experience in assessing
pasture availability and composition and ecological factors, as these are related to management, utilization
and monitoring of these pastures.
(4)    Duration: One full year starting with the project implementation, and return visits of 2 months
each in Year 2 and Year 3.
(5)    The  Range  and  Pasture  Management  Specialist will be  assisted  by  a  Fodder
harvesting/conservation specialist, for a duration of 2 months.   The duties of the Fodder
harvesting/conservation specialist would be to evaluate the efficiency of present fodder harvesting and
conservation practices, and make recommendations on the potentials of fodder harvesting and preservation
improvement. He shall prepare and issue a report for use by ATAS on the training of extension agents
in these topics.



- 102 -                              ANNEX G
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX G
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year             Disbursements      Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                 by Quarter            by end of Quarter
1997
1st Quarter                 0.3                       0.3
2nd Quarter                 0.2                       0.5
3rd Quarter                 0.3                       0.8
4th Quarter                 0.2                       1.0
1998
1st Quarter                 0.7                       1.7
2nd Quarter                 0.7                       2.4
3rd Quarter                 0.7                       3.1
4th Quarter                 0.7                       3.8
1999
Ist Quarter                 0.6                       4.4
2nd Quarter                 0.6                       5.0
3rd Quarter                 0.6                       5.6
4th Quarter                 0.6                       6.2
2000
1st Quarter                 0.4                       6.6
2nd Quarter                 0.4                       7.0
3rd Quarter                 0.4                       7.4
4th Quarter                 0.4                       7.8
2001
1st Quarter                 0.4                       8.2
2nd Quarter                 0.4                       8.6
3rd Quarter                 0.3                       8.9
4th Quarter                 0.3                       9.2
2002
1st Quarter                0.3                        9.5
2nd Quarter                 0.3                       9.8
3rd Quarter                 0.3                      10.1
4th Quarter                 0.3                      10.4
2003
1st Quarter                 0.2                      10.6
2nd Quarter                 0.2                      10.8
3rd Quarter                 0.2                      11.0
4th Quarter                 0.2                      11.2
2004
1st Quarter                 0.2                      11.4
2nd Quarter                 0.2                      11.6



- 103 -                                       ANNEX G
Attachment 1
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Profile
Disbursements              Profile
IDA Fiscal     By Quarter   Cumulative             Agriculture
years and quarters   IUS* million)  (US$ million)   Project   All Regions
1997    1         0.3          0.3        2.6%        0.0%
2         0.2         0.5         4.3%       0.0%
3         0.3         0.8         6.9%       1.5%
4         0.2          1.0        8.6%       3.0%
1998    1         0.7          1.7        14.7%       4.5%
2         0.7         2.4        20.7%       6.0%
3         0.7         3.1        28.7%       10.0%
4         0.7         3.8        32.8%       14.0%
1999    1         0.6          4.4        37.9%       16.0%
2         0.6         5.0        43.1%       18.0%
3         0.6         5.6        48.3%       22.0%
4         0.6         6.2        53A%        26.0%
2000     1         0.4         6.6        56.9%       30.0%
2         0.4         7.0        60.3%       34.0%
3         0.4         7.4        63.8%       40.0%
4         0.4         7.8        67.2%       46.0%
2001     1        0.4          8.2        70.7%       50.0%
2         0.4         8.6        74.1%       54.0%
3         0.3         8.9        76.7%       58.0%
4         0.3         9.2        79.3%       62.0%
2002    1         0.3          9.5        81.9%       66.0%
2         0.3         9.8        84.5%       70.0%
3         0.3         10.1       87.1%       76.0%
4         0.3         10.4       89.7%       82.0%
2003    1         0.2          10.6       91.4%      84.0%
2         0.2         10.8       93.1%       86.0%
3         0.2         11.0       94.8%       90.0%
4         0.2         11.2       96.6%       94.0%
2004    1          0.2         11.4       98.3%      96.0%
2         0.2         11.6       100.0%      98.0%
3         0           11.6       100.0%      99.0%
4         0           11.6       100.0%     100.0%
'Country profile data is not available yet as of 03/31196



KYRGYZ REPUBUC: SHEEP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Euteibd Diswment Proes
0.9     
0.8     
0.7
0.6  -                                                                                                                          Estimated Project Profile
0.5  -                                                                                                                          Agriculture: All regions
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
r-. -                                                                 %            '
0            0            0            0                                     O            0
z
IDA FReal Year                                                                                                  z
9 C)
tTJ



PROCUREMENT PLAN
Component/Item                  Contr.ct   Estimated   Procurement   No. of   Responsible     Bid        lmpimnt.
Type          cost    Method    Contracts    Agency      Documents       period
_____________ _  _(US$000)                                   Available
Eguipment
I. Software                     Goods            54      IS           I          PIU         N. A.      08/96-06/98
2. Office Equipment             Goods           203       IS          2          PIU         N.A.       08/96-06/98
3. Office Furniture             Goods             8       LS          3          PIU         N. A.         08/96
4. Video Equipment               Goods           23       LS           I         PIU         N.A.       08/96-06/97
5. Laboratory Equipment          Goods          174       IS           I         PIU         N. A.      08/96-08/98
6. Grassland Tools               Goods            7       LS           I         PIU         N.A.          08/96
7. Wool Testing Equipment        Goods          541      ICB           I         PIU         06/96      08/96-08/97
0
8. Wool Handling Equipment      Goods           589      ICB           I         PIU         06/96      09/96-08/97           3
9. Generator & batteries         Goods           26      IS/LS         I         PIU         N.A.       09/96-08/97    G        N   -
10. Fencing material            Goods           168      IS           I          PIU         N.A.       09/96-08/97                 o
11. Vaccine Mfg. Equipment      Goods           556      ICB          I          PIU         10/97      12/97-06/00
Vehicle
12. Vehicles                    Goods           406      ICB          I          PIU         06/96      08/96-08/97
Animal
13. Merino Sheep                Goods         I,114      ICB          I          PIU         06/96      08/96-06/99
14. Breeding Material           Goods           834      ICB          I          PIU         06/96      08/96-06/99
Vaccine
15. Vaccine                     Goods         1,618      ICB          I          PIU         10/96      12/96-06/00
Civil Works
16. Rehabilitation works        Works           730      NCB          4          PIU         10/96      10/96-10/98
Books                                            1.9
17. Professional Journal        Goods            19       is          I          PIU         N.A.       08/96-07/98 



Component/Item                   Contract   Estimated   Procurement   No. of   Responsible       Bid        Impimnt.
Type           cost    Method     Contracts     Agency     Documents       period
(US$000)                                         Available
Consultancy
18. Project Manager              Cons.           350    Short list      I          PIU          N.A.       08/96-06/98
19. Accountant/procurement       Cons.           100    Short list      I          PIU          N.A.       08/96-01/97
20. Brucellosis control specialist  Cons.         43    Short list       I          PIU         N.A.       10/96-02/97
21. Diagnostic specialist         Cons.            29    Short list      I         PIU          N.A.       10/96-02/97
22. Epidemiologist                Cons.           102    Short list      I         PIU          N.A.       10/96-06/99
23. Practice Mgt. Specialist      Cons.            72    Short list      I          PIU         N.A.       10/96-02/97
24. Regulatory Specialist         Cons.            15    Short list      I         PIU          N.A.          08/98
25. Feasibility study for vaccine  Cons.           61    Short list      I         PIU          N.A.       07/96-02/97
mfg.                                                                                                               I         o
26. Animal breeder                Cons.           187    Short list      I         PIU          N.A.       10/96-06/98
27. Reproduction specialist       Cons.            29    Short list      I         PIU          N.A.       10/96-02/97
29. Rangeland ecologist           Cons.           160    Short list      I          PIU         N.A.       08/96-08/98
30. Wool marketing coordinator    Cons.          393    Short list       I          PIU         N.A.       08/96-08/98
31. Int'l expert on testing/quality  Cons.        72    Short list       I         PIU          N.A.       10/96-06/97
32. Marketing/auction specialist  Cons.            57    Short list      I          PIU         N.A.       10/96-06/97
33. Local consultants             Cons           592    Short list      4           PIU         N.A.       08/96-06/00
Sub-total for consultancy                       2,262
z



MAP SECTION






iUD 2.822
-   U..) L
KAZAKHSTAN
2.  v X t _ A X f ,~~~~~~~~~~.               .0 - 6i
K- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
TAJIKISTANS                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mf
-0-~~~~~7
// \{ -< o~~~~~~ S H   
| i-_-  ._.x,._   ___45=X_  > *t--_                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
110'                  T. 'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b              ~~-                                                                         MAIN ROADS
*  -                                                                                                                                                  OT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0HER ROADS
~~~ ')    ' ~~~~~~~~~~~AZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                 *     NATIONAL CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAIOA CPIA
T A                                      J,                                                                                     I                                                     ORAS T CAPN \-r :ffiT4 _ +07-BO AT S
- 4-   -                                                                                                                                                                                0    SELRCTED CMES
t -i t  <                       (-    -  r._    INWERNAnONAL ROUNDARIES
I \     ,A.,                                                 .JSK.I-   b-I. 0..                      ,. .J ,.d ,,M Ro& Co0.
IEPUTUC                                    CHINA       l u y ,     pd .                                              - A. I. ,, 5  100
AtY 19









IMAGING
Report No:      14701 KG
Type: SAR



