Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF022691
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Agricultural Reform Implementation Support Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
Dated April
8,
1994
TF022691
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April
8,
1994, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
(the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting on its own behalf
(the Association) and 
as Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) and the Association, 
Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association
have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing
of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the
case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS
(B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds
(the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule
1
to this Agreement
(the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS
(C) the Recipient has requested the Association to carry out the 
Technical Assistance; and
WHEREAS
(D) the Association has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section
1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in 
the following areas:
(a)
review, analysis, design and implementation of agricultural reforms;
(b)
restructuring of public administration in agriculture; and
(c)
assessment of investment opportunities in the crop and livestock sectors.
Section
1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "yen" and "
¥" mean the 
currency of Japan, and the term
"Consultants" includes individual consultants as well 
as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section
1.01.
Section
1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on 
February
1, 1994 and to provide a total of 76 man-months of service between that time 
and July
31, 1994.
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Association
and the Administrator
Section
2.01. The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance 
shall be in an amount of sixty-two million seven hundred thousand yen (¥62,700,000).
Section
2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the following 
expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
(c)
office expenses, including communications and report translations, 
incurred by the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their
services; and
(d)
cost of equipment and materials procured by the Consultants and required 
for the performance of their services.
Section
2.03. The Association shall make reasonable efforts to secure the 
services of the Consultants.
Section
2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Association and shall be done according to
the Association's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section
3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the 
Association and the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out
promptly and effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions
to its officials, agents and representatives.
Section
3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
Page  3
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance
(other than
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the
Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and 
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for
their personal use;
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance from
(or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants
and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed 
under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the
Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of the Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into
such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by
them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become
the property of the Recipient; and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel
(other than nationals of the
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories)
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories;
and
(f)
ensure that any materials or equipment procured by the Administrator for 
purposes of the Technical Assistance and financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
shall be free of any tax, duty, fee, levy or other impositions imposed under the laws
and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories in respect of the
importation, manufacturing or procurement of said equipment or materials.
Section
3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by
third parties against the Administrator or the Association. The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Administrator and the Association against any costs, claims, damages or
liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection
with the Technical Assistance, except those resulting from the gross negligence or
willful misconduct of the Administrator or the Association, as the case may be.
Section
3.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services,
facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement.
Section
3.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of
the Association and the Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement. 
If any member of the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work
assigned to him by the Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied by
such member, the Consultants may request the replacement of such member, and the
Page  4
Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such request
.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section
4.01. The Recipient, the Association and the Administrator shall, from 
time to time, at the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance
and consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any
recommendations made in those reports.
Section
4.02. The Association and the Administrator may use any reports prepared 
by the Consultants for any purpose that the Association or the Administrator, as the
case may be, may consider appropriate but those reports may not be made public except
by agreement between the Recipient, the Association and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section
5.01. The rights and obligations of the Association, the Administrator 
and the Recipient under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance
with their terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof
to the contrary.
Neither the Association nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall
be entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any
provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
Section
5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence
in such default.
No action of such party in respect of any default, or any
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section
5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any 
claim by any such party against any other such party arising under this Agreement
which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Association and the 
Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows:
one arbitrator shall be appointed jointly by the Association and the
Administrator; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the third
arbitrator
(hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement 
of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the International
Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General 
of the United Nations. If either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such 
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in 
accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act, a successor
arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the
appointment of the original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers
and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name of the
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding.
Within thirty days
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph
(c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
Page  5
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such
Tribunal.
A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final
and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply 
with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be
reasonable under the circumstances. The Association, the Administrator and the 
Recipient shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs 
of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the Association
and the Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other. Any question 
concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for
payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this
Agreement or of any claim by any such party against any other such party arising
thereunder.
(k)
The Association shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the 
Recipient upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or
to pursue any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award,
except as such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by
reason of the provisions of this Section. If, within thirty days after counterparts of 
the award shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied
with by the Association, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of
the award against the Association.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered
pursuant to this Section shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed 
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address specified in this Agreement or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other 
requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section
6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section
6.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Association and the 
Administrator in writing to terminate the Technical Assistance.
Whether or not the
Recipient has made such a request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant
funds for the Technical Assistance if any of the following circumstances shall have
occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact 
that such payment may have been made by a third party) of principal, interest, service 
charges or any other amount due to the Association or the Bank: (i) under any 
development credit agreement between the Recipient and the Association, or
(ii) under 
any loan or guarantee agreement between the Recipient and the Bank, or
(iii) in 
consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the
Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Recipient.
Page  6
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement.
(c)
(i)
The Association or the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any development credit
agreement with the Association or any loan agreement with the Bank because of a
failure by the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; or
(ii) the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of any borrower to 
make withdrawals under a loan agreement with the Bank guaranteed by the Recipient
because of a failure by such borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Association or 
the Administrator, as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its
purposes, or the execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Association; or
(ii)
shall have ceased to be a member of the
International Monetary Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient, in or pursuant to this Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect.
Section
6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further
action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section
6.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section
7.01. All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be 
addressed as follows:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Agriculture
St. Kievskaja, 96
Bishkek,
720300
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
251283
For the Administrator and the Association:
Director, Country Department
3
Europe and Central Asia Region
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as
of the day and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By
/s/ Askar Sarygulov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of the Grant
By
/s/ Russell Cheetham
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the Recipient in designing and implementing agricultural reforms.
The Technical Assistance consists of the following activities, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree from time to
time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Agricultural Privatization Support Services
(a)
Support in Strategy Formulation and Implementation:
(i)
Review the status of the agricultural reform program and its 
implementation and identify implementation constraints.
(ii)
Formulate a framework for effective imple- mentation of the 
ongoing and future reform program, including policy actions,
institutional arrangements, and resource requirements.
(iii)
Define specific processes for accelerating reforms in key areas of 
agriculture, including land and farm reform, pricing and marketing
policy, establishment of farmers' associations, and
agro-processing and indicate how these can be supported by the 
project.
(iv)
Prioritize the most crucial problems and evaluate alternative 
approaches to their solution.
(v)
Identify critical areas where training and technical assistance 
would be required for the introduction of an appropriate market
information system.
(vi)
Prepare detailed project costs, indicating investment and 
operating costs broken down by foreign and local components for
each project year, for each of the identified sub-components.
(vii)
Prepare a realistic implementation schedule for each 
sub-component.
(b)
Land Registration Services:
(i)
Review the existing system of land registration, land information 
Page  8
and agricultural mapping capabilities and determine its strengths
and weaknesses.
This should include an assessment of institutional
capability, financial and material resources.
(ii)
Recommend an appropriate system for the provision of land 
registration services, standardization of a land registry system.
Assess the needed human, capital and material resources required
for its implementation.
(iii)
Identify critical areas where training and technical assistance 
would be required for the introduction of an appropriate land
registration system.
(iv)
Prepare detailed project costs, indicating investment and 
operating costs broken down by foreign and local components for
each project year, for each of the identified sub-components.
(v)
Prepare a realistic implementation schedule for each 
sub-component.
(c)
Market Information System:
(i)
Analyze the strengths and weaknesses of the current market 
information system, especially in standardization, packaging and
product qualities, sorting and grading, spatial/locational 
characteristics and trading practices. This should include an 
assessment of existing institutional capability, financial and
material resources.
(ii)
Prepare a plan for the establishment of a market information 
system which addresses the most important information needs for
various types of agricultural producers.
(iii)
Identify critical areas where training and technical assistance 
would be required for the introduction of an appropriate market
information system.
(iv)
Prepare detailed project costs, indicating investment and 
operating costs broken down by foreign and local components for
each project year, for each of the identified sub-components.
(v)
Prepare a realistic implementation schedule for each 
sub-component.
(d)
Farmer Information System
(i)
Analyze the strengths and weaknesses of the current farmer 
information system, especially with respect to linkages between
agricultural research and education to meet farmers' information
needs, their relevancy , adoption and timeliness. This should 
include an assessment of existing institutional capability,
financial and material resources.
(ii)
Prepare an appropriate plan for the establishment of a farmer 
information system which addresses the most important information
needs for various types of agricultural producers.
(iii)
Identify critical areas where training and technical assistance 
would be required for the introduction of such a farmer
information service which addresses the most important information
needs for various types of agricultural producers.
(iv)
Prepare detailed project costs, indicating investment and 
operating costs broken down by foreign and local components for
each project year, for each of the identified sub-components.
(v)
Prepare a realistic implementation schedule for each 
sub-component.
Part B:
Restructuring the Ministry of Agriculture
(a)
Evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the present organization, 
Page  9
management and operations of the Ministry of Agriculture
.
This should critically
evaluate the various institutions involved in the agricultural sector, identify
critical constraints and make recommendations to improve the agricultural sector
management. This should include an assessment of institutional capability, financial 
and material resources at present.
(b)
Prepare alternative institutional mechanisms for restructuring the 
Ministry of Agriculture, so that it is more responsive to the needs of the emerging
farm structures.
This should provide the necessary human, capital and material
resource needs.
(c)
Identify legal and institutional bottlenecks that need to be removed in 
order to implement an acceptable organization framework.
(d)
Identify critical areas where training and technical assistance would be 
required for the introduction of modern forest resource management practices.
(e)
Prepare detailed project costs, indicating investment and operating costs 
broken down by foreign and local components for each project year, for each of the
identified sub-components.
(f)
Prepare a realistic implementation schedule for each sub-component.
Part C:
Pilot Private Sector Agricultural Investment Projects
1.
This will involve assessment of investment opportunities in the crop and 
livestock sectors. In the crop sector, the following activities will be undertaken:
(a)
Analysis of farming systems and cropping patterns of various 
agro-ecological zones in the country and the interactions between crop and livestock 
production.
(b)
Construction of existing and potential farm and crop models and 
explicitly indicate the assumptions underlying such models.
(c)
Preparation of specific crop programs which, if implemented, would 
facilitate the realization of the assumptions underlying the farm and crop models.
(d)
Review of existing crop husbandry practices and technologies, with 
special reference to major crops
(wheat, cotton, tobacco, wool, and pasture), fruits 
and vegetables and evaluate the potential for introduction of improved technologies to
increase yields.
(e)
Identify specific investment opportunities for the introduction of new 
technologies for farm machinery and equipment in private farms, restructured
collective and state farms.
2.
In the livestock sector, the following activities will be undertaken:
(a)
Review existing status of livestock industry, assess its competitiveness 
and export potential under changing relative prices and exposure to world market
competition.
(b)
Identification of critical policy and institutional reforms in livestock 
and propose a specific action plan for implementation, focusing on sheep, cattle,
poultry, and fodder management.
(c)
Identification and evaluation of critical investment opportunities which 
would yield the maximum economic benefit in the short run and encourage the
participation of the private sector.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of Services, Facilities, Equipment
and Counterpart Personnel to be Made Available
by the Recipient
The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants,
inter alia:
1.
Suitable office space and meeting rooms, communications facilities, including 
telephone, facsimile and telex equipment, and the services of a qualified and
experienced multi-lingual secretary;
Page  10
2.
Access to policy-making officials of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and 
Trade as well as to concerned regional-level governmental officials; and
3.
Assistance, including transportation, in arranging field visits for the 
Consultants.
