              Document of
           The World Bank




                                      Report No: 26218

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
        (IDA-28590; COFN-03790)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.8 MILLION
    (US$ 11.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                TO THE

          KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                FOR A

SHEEP AND WOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




              June 25, 2003

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, May 19, 1995)

                               Currency Unit = KGS
                                       KGS 1 = US$ 0.0943
                                        US$ 1 = KGS 10.6

                 (Exchange Rate Effective at Closing, December 31, 2002

                                   Currency Unit = KGS
                                   KGS 1 = US$ 0.0217
                                    US$ 1 = KGS 46.00


                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 -    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AI      Artificial Insemination
APIU    Agricultural Projects Implementation Unit
ASSP    Agricultural Support Services Project
ATAS    Agricultural Training and Advisory Services
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DVS     Department of Veterinary Services
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EU      European Union
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
FSU     Former Soviet Union
ICARDA  International Center for Agricultural Research in Dryland Areas
ICIMOD  International Center for Integrated Mountain Development
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILRI    International Livestock Research Institute
KAFC    Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
KFW     Kyrgyz Fine Wool
KGS     Kyrgyz Som
KSBA    Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association
LRI     Livestock Research Institute
MAWRPI  Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NPV     Net Present Value
RADS    Rural Advisory and Development Service
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SPG     Sheep Producer Group
VAT     Value Added Tax

   Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
 Country Director:  Dennis de Tray
  Sector Director:  Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader:   Gotz A. Schreiber

                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
               KYRGYZ SHEEP AND WOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. SDP Restructuring Results                                               39
Annex 9. Technical Assistance Provided under the SDP                             41
Annex 10. Overview of Pilot Activities                                           42
Annex 11. Video and Printed Materials Prepared under the SDP                     43
Annex 12. Training and Study Tours                                               44
Annex 13. Status of Goods Received by Beneficiaries                              45

Project ID: P008513                                                      Project Name: KYRGYZ SHEEP AND WOOL
                                                                         IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Gotz A. Schreiber                                           TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 25, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: KYRGYZ SHEEP AND WOOL                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-28590; COFN-03790
                            IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
   Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                    Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (36%); Agricultural marketing
                            and trade (28%); Animal production (28%); Central government
                            administration (8%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Rural markets (S); Land
                            management (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/31/1994                                        Effective: 07/01/1996              09/11/1997
   Appraisal:    05/19/1995                                            MTR: 12/15/1999                10/12/1999
    Approval:    05/14/1996                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF KYRGYZ/MIN OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:      International Fund for Agricultural Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Wilfred P. Thalwitz
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Laura Tuck                                     Micheal Gould
Team Leader at ICR:             Gotz A. Schreiber                              Barnabas Zegge
ICR Primary Author:             Tjaart W. Schillhorn-van Veen;
                                Sandra Broka


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                 U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Project outcome is rated satisfactory. Were there a possibility to rate it "marginally satisfactory", both the
ICR team as well as the majority of Kyrgyz stakeholders agree that this would be the appropriate rating.
This was the first investment operation in agriculture in the Kyrgyz Republic.           The Bank's project
preparation team in 1993-1994 was inexperienced in Central Asia, and neither the government nor farmers
had any experience with international aid agencies. Moreover, the country was in the midst of a massive
political, economic, institutional and psychological transition, the severity and duration of which were
greatly underestimated by both the lender and the borrower.

The sustainability depends on the likelihood of further support by Government and the Bank. As both
decided during the recent CAS discussions to drop a previously planned follow-up operation, sustainability
has been downgraded to unlikely.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project were to: (a) increase the profitability and efficiency of sheep and wool
farming; (b) privatize the provision of several services to farmers, including wool marketing and veterinary
services; and (c) improve the management and conservation of natural grazing resources by farmers. To
achieve these objectives, the project was to focus on: (i) organizing the sheep and wool farmers into
farmers' associations or groups through which essential services can be channeled; (ii) developing a
competitive marketing structure with incentives for production of quality lambs and wool for premium
prices; (iii) increasing sheep and wool productivity by establishing training and advisory services for
private farmers, and supporting selected breeding activities; and (iv) developing and disseminating
sustainable pasture management techniques among sheep producers.

The objectives were clear and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in which
growth recovery in the agricultural sector was seen as a critical element of IDA's assistance program for
growth and poverty reduction. The project was the first investment operation in support of reforms in this
important agricultural sub-sector which had dominated the Kyrgyz rural economy for centuries. It followed
an early adjustment operation, the Economic Rehabilitation Credit, that included directed support for the
agricultural sector. The project was also consistent with the national environmental action plan that placed
high priority on the rehabilitation and sustainable management of Kyrgyz pastures. Although the project
was considered risky, the Government appeared committed to these objectives and, in particular, to
supporting the sheep industry which was regarded by all as an important pillar of the agricultural and
national economy.

Achievement of these objectives proved difficult as (i) the operating environment changed (leading to
redundancy or reduction of a number of physical investment) and (ii) the implementation capacity was
much lower than anticipated and (iii) the commitment by Government was variable and ambivalent
throughout the implementation period.

3.2 Revised Objective:
In view of the nearly two year gap between project design and effectiveness and major transition-related
changes (including a much smaller national sheep flock, and increased rural poverty ), the economic
environment in the country at mid-term differed substantially from that at appraisal. This change, as well
as the limited institutional capacity and associated implementation problems as well as doubts by borrower
and IDA about the achievements of the project, led Government and IDA/IFAD to agree on restructuring
the project. A restructuring mission in October 1999 concluded that the development objectives continued



                                                      - 2 -

to be relevant, but the approach to achieve them was considered too complex and fragmented in view of the
limited implementation capacity. The new focus was to be on capacity building, process development and
community development, all within the context of the original PDOs. The process development was to be
based on concepts more suited to the new, privatized operating environment through pilots in marketing,
forage production, and grazing management. The capacity building included e strengthening of farmer
associations, such as the (national) Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association (KSBA) and Sheep Producer
Groups (SPGs), - rather than create as many as possible - and strengthening of selected government
agencies. The community development objective was to encourage rural people to organize themselves to
collaborate for their mutual benefit, and it included development of community procedures on leasing,
quality control and monitoring of pastures.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project included three main components: (i) private sector development, with a focus on
private sheep breeders; (ii) development of livestock support services; and (iii) support for breeding
research. Each component included a number of sub-components.
l The Private Sector Development component comprised: (i) the creation of local, regional and national
    sheep producers associations (co-financed by IFAD), and (ii) support for wool and lamb marketing
    (also co-financed by IFAD), which included establishment of a wool testing facility and a wool
    marketing center.
l The Development of Livestock Support Services component consisted of: (i) the improvement and
    privatization of animal health services, support for brucellosis control, and strengthening the
    government capacity in diagnosis, quarantine and vaccine production, (ii) support for agricultural
    training and advisory services (co-financed by IFAD), (iii) support for pasture and fodder research,
    including harvesting and preservation of fodder, and (iv) support for pasture monitoring, evaluation
    and protection. This component also included support for a project implementation unit.
l The Breeding Research sub-component financed sheep breeding research that would reduce production
    costs and improve wool sheep breeding through introduction of new genetics, skills improvement, and
    upgrading the infrastructure at two breeding farms and an artificial insemination (AI) center.
Whereas, it was foreseen that the components would be mainstreamed country- or institution- wide in the
second part of the implementation period this proved to optimistic, in view of changes taking place in rural
areas, the limited capacity (both in the Government as well as among the beneficiaries), and debate within
the country about the directions to take in rural development and in sheep breeding in particular.

3.4 Revised Components:
While the original components were largely retained, most were scaled down during restructuring to
become more focused on gaining experience before mainstreaming. Some component parts were cancelled,
in part because they were expected to be financed through bilateral grant sources, and in part because they
appeared less relevant in the new economic environment. The long-term international technical assistance
was phased out. The planned wool testing center was cancelled because the economic justification for it had
deteriorated with the decline in the number of wool sheep from 7 to 1.5 million. Upgrading the vaccine
production laboratory was canceled, because the laboratory was privatized. The rehabilitation of breeding
farms was delayed and finally canceled, as their legal status remained undetermined for too long. As a
result, a total of SDR 2.0 million was cancelled from the IDA credit after restructuring.

Apart from cancelled investments, some misdirected investments, and the limited effort in skills
improvement, the individual components largely achieved their (down-scaled) physical outcomes. The lack
of skills development (mainly due to a lack of Government commitment) , however, is an opportunity lost.
These outcomes were to be expanded and used as models for further mainstreaming under a future project.
The cancellation of this planned intervention during the CAS debate in 2003, has reduced the sustainability



                                                     - 3 -

of the overall outcome of the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was considered risky. Peer reviewers and Bank managers raised considerable questions about
the project design during the preparation process. The main concerns included the complexity of design, the
uncertain medium-term economics of the sub-sector, the lack of IDA experience in the country, and the
large size of the TA component. Project identification and design were carried out in the early transition
period when both Government and Bank were fairly optimistic about the duration of the transition. Most of
the risks were perceived to be inherent to the transition process itself (macro-economic stability, land
reform, market liberalization) and outside the direct control of the Bank and the project. Other risks
included the uncertainty related to institutional weakness, and to ongoing reforms, and the subsequent
emergence of untested and potentially unstable new institutions. However, Government commitment to
reforming agriculture was considered strong and some of the risks were expected to be minimized by
requiring up-front agreements and conditions. The risk of institutional weakness was also expected to be
reduced by incorporating substantial technical assistance and intensive supervision. The weakness in design
reflected the weakness of the preceding agricultural sector review that did not critically evaluate the
constraints facing the livestock sector in transition, especially the presumed comparative advantage of the
sheep and wool sub-sector, before it had experienced any exposure to international competition. There were
neither clear indications nor a substantive analysis that Kyrgyz wool would be competitive on the (rather
distant) international markets. Moreover, the focus of the project was on producing and selling primary
products rather than on adding value through the sizeable local spinning industry. By selecting wool as its
major focus the project was tacitly supporting the (only partially reformed) state farms and/or large
producers, which were closely linked to the state -- but this was not recognized or identified as an issue of
note.

Project design took considerable time and resources and was finally endorsed by the Bank as the
agricultural sector was considered vital to the country's development objectives. In addition, the
Government needed the external financial and technical support in sectors with a comparative advantage
and the potential to generate a supply response in the short term. However, during negotiations the
Government questioned the design and especially the large TA component, and this led to a six-months
prolongation of the negotiations. The ensuing discussion within government revealed some differences in
opinions within the Kyrgyz administration and provided warning signs about the level of stakeholders'
commitment.

Some of the risks foreseen at appraisal did materialize:
    (i) The limited implementation and supervisory capacity in the ministries resulted in a less than
    satisfactory use of the international technical assistance. Although this lack of capacity was noted
    during the project peer review, the proposed remedial actions turned out to be insufficient or not
    workable.
    (ii) The size and quality of the international TA became a point of contention, but it was difficult to
    change this substantially once the contracts were signed. Government was unfamiliar with such
    contracting, and the contractors were unfamiliar with Kyrgyz conditions. Although the contractors did
    show some flexibility, these fixed large contracts in an uncertain environment may not have been the
    best approach under then prevailing conditions.
    (iii) The uncertain and changing legal status of some of the beneficiaries' institutions and farms
    delayed decisions on technical support and infrastructure improvement.          Some institutions were
    abolished (i.e. Asyl-Mal), some were restructured (Pasture and Livestock Institute), some were
    declared bankrupt, and the legal status of others -- such as the breeding farms -- was never clarified
    (with Government, Livestock Institute, farm management and farm workers all assuming to be part



                                                      - 4 -

    owners).
    (iv)   Stakeholder commitment varied, and the project became part of a national debate about
    development assistance in general. The perceived high cost of imported sheep (at close to 100 times
    the local market price) was the common focus of this debate. This debate only subsided when some of
    the benefits of the project became visible, and some of the key critics in academia, parliament, etc.
    became more aware of the overall development objectives.
A design flaw recognized only very belatedly was the fact that the KSBA was expected to repay
Government for some project investments, while at the same time it was expected to be able to borrow for
its working capital needs. This seriously jeopardized KSBA's wool purchasing ability and thereby its
future sustainability.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project outcome is rated marginally satisfactory despite incomplete disbursement and a smaller project
output than anticipated. Despite a project extension by 18 months, disbursements fell short of appraisal
assumptions, in large part as a result of cancellations when investments were funded by others on a grant
basis or were deemed unnecessary or inadvisable in the wake of continuing institutional transition.

Nevertheless, many of the physical targets set at appraisal, and down-scaled during restructuring, were at
least partly achieved, and the project piloted a number of other interventions that can now be mainstreamed:
   l The project helped establish 117 local sheep farmer cooperatives and a national cooperative
        association which has become an important player in the sheep industry The association's more
        recent focus on providing services to the smaller farms helped include remote farmers in the
        national economy and reduce rural poverty. This cooperative structure is backed by a workable
        cooperative law, the creation and adoption of which was largely based on the experience and effort
        of the project.
   l The improvement in sheep genetics has led to higher production volume and improved wool quality
        from the crossbreeds, and this has increased and will continue to increase the income of sheep
        producers. The project also helped in formulating an updated national breeding policy.
   l The project was instrumental in focusing on sustainable pasture use and in developing mechanisms
        for rangeland tenure at the community level. It created capacity for pasture monitoring and
        mapping, and it provided a national map of Kyrgyz pastures as well as more detailed oblast, raion
        and farm maps (excluding the 340,000 ha of sloping land). These surveys, maps and training were
        a crucial part of rangeland allocation pilots at aiyl okmotu level. The project was also instrumental
        in the formulation and adoption of a rangeland law based on the experience gained during project
        implementation.
   l The project helped increase participating farmers' income at an estimated aggregate of
        US$250,000. This is expected to rise to about US$1 million annually by 2008.
   l The project introduced the concept of contracting for government services (in animal health,
        extension and pasture monitoring).
   l The project supported a number of pilot investments that can be (some already have been)
        mainstreamed. These include: (i) planning and community management of rangeland water points
        and their rehabilitation; (ii) a model for the inclusion of private veterinary practitioners in carrying
        out national epizootic disease control programs; (iii) organization of farm shows; (iv) creation of a
        sheep breeding registration system (flock book); and (v) an improved capacity in animal disease
        diagnosis and control.
Some of the intended institution building has been achieved only partially, but the project contributed in a
significant way by supporting the dialogue among different stakeholders in the sector, leading to



                                                      - 5 -

cooperation between various entities (pasture, animal health, marketing) and joint activities in rural areas.
However, some of the institution building objectives were not always fully understood and accepted by the
agricultural establishment. Initially, the Ministry of Agriculture regarded the project as a vehicle for
improving (wool) sheep farming by sustaining the state research farms and institutions. It was only later in
the implementation period that a full understanding took hold that the project was to contribute to the
development of the more numerous medium-scale private sheep producers and of the entire sub-sector.

The outcome has also been positive for the environment, as pasture leasing is now based on regular
monitoring of grazing areas. In addition, 343,000 ha of sloped land were identified as unsuitable for
grazing and have been withdrawn from use.

Finally, this first agricultural project in the Kyrgyz Republic helped establish capacity in project
management, including procurement and financial management, which has already benefitted subsequent
projects financed by development banks.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Sheep Private Enterprise Development

The outcome of this component is rated satisfactory, but sustainability is questionable because it depends
on further supportive actions by Government. The project witnessed and assisted in the creation of new
sheep farmers, the majority of whom were initially smallholder and backyard farmers. Many still are, with
flocks of only 5-10 animals. Most of these animals are used for subsistence (mainly meat). Out of this
group, a number of medium-size farmers have emerged with flocks of 50-500 animals. These are the main
members of the KSBA. Finally, there is small group of farmers with large flocks (>1000), many having
emerged from the state breeding farms. Overall, however, the national sheep flock declined by the late
1990s to about 3 million and the number of wool sheep to about 1.5 million, a result of the reduced direct
state support (especially the termination of the previous program of importing 1 million tons of feed grain
annually, and the cessation of guaranteed fixed wool pricing) and an ill-designed privatization (before
Project start-up) that left smallholders with animals in mid-winter without feed and other support.

The project helped to create 117 local sheep producer groups (SPGs), representing an estimated 6,000 farm
households, as well as national producer organizations. The intermediary regional sheep producers groups,
foreseen in at appraisal, did not materialize, but the national association employs a system of regional
market managers.
    (i) The producer groups focus on wool marketing (shearing, grading, common marketing with better
    bargaining position and higher prices), training (improved skills, group management, etc.) and
    increasingly on other functions such as joint grazing, joint sheep health programs and breed
    improvement As with the national association (see below), the registration process was cumbersome,
    requiring administrative and legal approval, and in some cases these were difficult to obtain without
    informal payments to the relevant officials. Moreover, this formal registration proved in some cases
    detrimental, as it exposed the cooperatives to formal reporting and payment obligations (e.g., tax
    police, etc.) and to abuse through informal requests for payments. New cooperatives, therefore,
    preferred informal organization over formal registration.

    (ii) With frequent changes in the Kyrgyz legal landscape, the national Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders
    Association (KSBA) was initially registered as a consumer cooperative, later as an NGO, and finally
    as an agricultural cooperative under the new cooperative law (which the project helped to get enacted)
    in February 2001. The KSBA introduced a number of innovations, including (a) a system of dual



                                                     - 6 -

    payments for wool and (b) a system of wool grading and quality assessment (including mobile wool
    testing stations) that provides incentives for better quality and higher prices. As a result, the price of
    wool received by farmers increased on average from 50% to 80% of economic prices, and meat prices
    are now close to -- or even above -- the economic prices. There are, however, still significant regional
    differences in this mountainous country with difficult market access.

    One of the major difficulties encountered by the KSBA has been its lack of working capital. The
    project had foreseen that KSBA would be able to obtain such capital on the local capital markets. This
    proved impossible -- first, because of very weak local credit market, and second, because of KSBA's
    perceived link to the Government.           The lack of working capital was later partly resolved by a
    US$40,000 subsidiary loan from the IFAD credit, but lack of working capital continued to limit the
    KSBA's capacity to purchase all the wool of its members. The competitive position of the KSBA in
    the wool market was also somewhat affected by the fact that it paid VAT, whereas most of private
    traders avoided such tax payments. Hence, only about one third of SPGs sold their wool through
    KSBA in 2002. As they did not benefit from sales, many members were reluctant to pay membership
    fees; only in the last year did the KSBA become more assertive in collecting membership fees.

    Still, the KSBA has become of player in the rural economy and has attracted support from, or is
    cooperating with,         GTZ and USAID.         It also works with private business, a result of KSBA
    management's decision to look for business links with the local spinning industry rather than to focus
    exclusively on the export of wool.

    (iii) The project indirectly assisted in the creation of a purebred breeders group, the Merino Foundation,
    a spin-off from the KSBA created by several larger wool farmers, breeding pure-bred Merino sheep
    and trained by KSBA.

The process of establishing these cooperatives also helped move forward the process of drafting and
adopting the Law on Cooperatives.

The original project concept of a Meat Marketing Center appeared not feasible, mainly due to serious
market distortions during the contraction of the national flock. Since 2000, the meat market has stabilized,
but marketing of live animals and meat is now generally regarded as a pure private sector activity.

Although the objectives of this project component have been largely achieved, the sustainability of the
cooperative structures created is jeopardized by a recent (post-project) decision of the Ministry of Finance
to force the KSBA to retroactively refund certain parts of project investments made in it. The original
project design suggested a subsidiary credit agreement between the Ministry and the Cooperative(s) to
cover project investments in the KSBA during the later project years when the Association was anticipated
to be soundly established and financially viable, but such agreements were not concluded during project
implementation. The Finance Ministry's position on this issue was not foreseen, and at the time of project
closing the KSBA Board and management were still discussing an acceptable solution with the Ministry of
Finance. It is now anticipated that a subsidiary credit agreement will be signed, with retroactive effect, and
that the Ministry of Finance and the KSBA will agree on acceptable terms of repayment on adequately
depreciated assets financed after the KSBA was registered as a cooperative.

Note:

    The MoF in its review of the ICR comments that

          " ...according to item 4 (a) of Annex 4 of the SDP Credit Agreement between the Kyrgyz Republic and the
          IDA, the Borrower is to conclude a subsidiary agreement with Associations (KSBA). The latest date of the
          KSBA registration as the agricultural cooperative is February 26, 2001. Since that the Ministry of Finance
          repeatedly discussed with the KSBA the issue about conclusion of a subsidiary agreement. But, the KSBA
          did not accept proposed drafts subsidiary agreements and delayed the process of conclusion. Only at



                                                          - 7 -

         project closing did the KSBA acknowledge the size of investments made during the project
         implementation. It should be also added that the Ministry of Finance provides support of all kinds for
         future formation and strengthening of the KSBA activities by mitigation of financial terms."

    These comments, while valid, do not explain the belated nature of the MoF action, the initially unrealistic
    valuation of the goods concerned, and the disregard for the independence of the Cooperative and its Board.

4.2.2 Development of Livestock Support Services
The outcome of this component is marginally satisfactory.            The outcome of the veterinary services
subcomponent depends on further action by the department. The rate of return is surprisingly low, mainly
due to the fact that only the benefits of the pilot were measured. The outcomes of other activities such as
awareness and institution building were not quantitatively determined.                  The extension service
subcomponent was transferred to the ASSP in 1998, and the final outcome of this activity is to be awaited.

4.2.2.1 Animal health services

The animal health services were faced with an increase in clientele but a drastic decrease in the number of
animals -- and with underemployment. The veterinary department found it difficult to transform itself from
a high-cost operation (vehicles, imported drugs, etc.) to a low-cost operation more in tune with the
economic situation in rural areas. Payment for services was low, and often in kind. Some good young
veterinarians took better paying jobs elsewhere; many became farmers.

The project improved animal health services by rehabilitating the diagnostic laboratory and procuring new
equipment (refrigerators and generators to improve the cold chain for storage of vaccine and drugs). The
diagnostic equipment was not used to a full extent, however, because of the limited skills in using the
equipment and in interpreting the results and impact and because of low demand. The technical skills were
improved by training of laboratory technicians.
    (i) The project supported short-term training (in Australia and Russia) of seven young veterinarians
    and technicians in epidemiology, laboratory diagnosis, disease control and veterinary policy,
    respectively.    Although two of the trained specialists moved elsewhere, the trained group was
    instrumental in developing new concepts in the state-mandated vaccination program to be carried out
    by private veterinarians contracted by the state. Further improvement in overall veterinary skills,
    started by sending young veterinarians abroad, was hampered when the Government (on May 4, 1998)
    imposed restrictions on overseas training. Possibilities for training outside the FSU were also limited
    because of the lack of language skills. Improvement of the latter was included in annual workplans,
    but largely cut by the Ministry of Finance.

    (ii) The privatization of animal health services was initiated and supported through pilots in which (a)
    the state (financed by the project) contracted private veterinarians to carry out brucellosis testing and
    vaccination, and (b) the project developed a system of quality control and monitoring of such activities
    through state inspection. The system proposed at project design worked. Pilots in selected raions
    proved that private veterinarians are able to carry out the sheep testing and vaccination for brucellosis
    (normally a state-executed program) with better vaccination cover. A longer-term outcome was the
    subsequent reduction in the incidence of animal and human disease cases.                The impact of these
    interventions is difficult to measure, as they were not really mainstreamed in the veterinary department,
    largely due to rapid turnover of management staff, difficulties in adjusting to new economic conditions,
    a lack of clear policies, and self-serving interests.        The component demonstrated, however, the
    feasibility of private service delivery under contractual arrangements with Government.

    (iii) This output also resulted in (a) pilot interaction of veterinary staff with public health officials,
    thereby identifying common interests (especially zoonotic control); (b) training courses for private and


                                                      - 8 -

    public veterinarians; and (c) a series of documents, films and videos to be used in awareness training
    about the risks of zoonotic diseases and economically important sheep diseases. Experiences learned
    from the project activities, and project-financed consultants, contributed to the draft veterinary law.

The planned intervention to improve vaccine development was down-scaled as the vaccine producing plant
was privatized in 1998. The procurement of vaccines was also reduced after 1999 when the Food Security
Program of the European Union financed vaccines on a grant basis. The credit funds earmarked for this
intervention were canceled.

4.2.2.2 Extension services

The extension (ATAS) component operated through a system of contract farmers with an initial focus on
the creation of farmers groups.        This development was halted when the extension component was
transferred to the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP). The transition from ATAS to RADS was
poorly managed: the ATAS activities under the SDP were stopped without any assurance of a smooth
transition and before RADS had been sufficiently established. Consequently, when the ASSP start-up was
delayed, the extension effort for livestock producers came to a halt.    This caused considerable dismay and
distrust among the farmers. A second problem arose when, in order to avoid the problem of cancelling
Credit funds under the SDP and adding commensurate funds to the just starting ASSP, it was decided to
leave the Credit funds and budget for this activity under the SDP, but to give management responsibility for
it to RADS. This arrangement appeared too complex for the local RADS managers who demanded full
control, whereas the SDP wished to retain some input in the decision making and accountability to ensure
complementarity between the SDP objectives and those of the RADS component of the ASSP. In the
absence of RADS extension delivery, other components of the SDP took up this responsibility and
delivered a variety of services, including farm advice, formal training, written materials, videos, farm
shows and TV presentations (see Annex 11).

After an hiatus of about one year, the livestock extension component (by then implemented by RADS)
started with a series of surveys and stakeholder workshops to identify the major constraints in production.
These workshops provided insights into farmers' problems (low prices, lack of inputs, lack of access to new
genetics, limited skills) and agro-processors (variable quality, lack of local demand for quality products,
taxation). This provided the basis for decisions on support of RADS to the SDP as well as for a pilot
program in competitive applied research (see para. 4.2.3).

4.2.3 Sheep Breeding Research Support
The sheep breeding research focused largely on wool and on the introduction of Merino genetics, and it was
anticipated to be the largest investment by the project. Despite considerable criticism and debate, the
outcome of this components is satisfactory, the unsatisfactory experience with the artificial insemination
(AI) centers notwithstanding.
    (i) The project funded the import of 290 pure-bred Australian Merino rams and 400 ewes. The number
    of first-generation (F1) lambs born from pure-bred Merino rams and local ewes four years after
    importation is about 116,500 -- a highly satisfactory output. This success is largely due to the use of
    artificial insemination with fresh semen as was standard practice during the Soviet period. In addition,
    several pure-bred Merino flocks have been established, either privately- or State owned. Although the
    institutional set-up is different from the original project design, the current arrangement is considered
    satisfactory.   The dissemination of breeding rams to private sheep farmers, a precondition for
    sustainable breed improvement, has been less than satisfactory in the early part of the project, except
    for an intervention by the KSBA to try to disseminate genetically improved breeding rams through
    auctions. Government, however, was reluctant to transfer pure-bred offspring to farmers, mainly to
    avoid valuation issues. Large private farmers prefer to "lease" the breeding rams during the mating



                                                     - 9 -

season, for a payment of KGS 25 (about US$0.5 equivalent) per lamb born. The leasing conditions
were not fully transparent, but the number of farmers using pure-bred Merino breeding rams increased
to 208 in 2002; the number of farmers who now use F1 breeding rams to improve the wool quality of
their flocks is far higher.

(ii) The institutional arrangements of the breeding services have remained a major issue of debate with
the country, and there is no closure yet. The project contributed to the enlightening this dialogue by
supporting the development of a breeding policy, an animal registration system, and a flockbook. The
initially suggested emphasis on wool production, in essence retaining the pre-transition focus, was not
universally accepted and triggered an intense debate between traditionalists favoring wool production,
pragmatists who wanted to focus on meat (especially on the fat-tail sheep) as mutton prices were high,
and a third group that argued in favor of dual purpose-type animals. The latter required sophisticated
cross-breeding, initiated with the help of international consultants, i.e., the "White October" plan. This
effort was largely abandoned after the departure of the international consultants, because
implementation was complicated and required a discipline and supervision that was costly and could
not be managed locally. Another tool developed under the project is the breed registration system
("Flockbook") to provide data management for accurate selection of breeding stock. The necessary
software has been designed and tested by the Central Asian Breeding Service, a private cattle breeding
organization in the Kyrgyz Republic. However, it is not yet clear whether the breeders (Merino
Foundation) are willing to bear the cost of performance recording.

(iii) The cross-bred ("Improved Kyrgyz Fine Wool") sheep and their offspring improved the (i) wool
clip by 0.2 to 0.4 kg or 5-7%, (ii) fiber length by 0.5-1cm or 7-13%, and (iii) fiber diameter of 22
microns instead of 23-24 microns. The improved wool quality has resulted in a wool price increase of
roughly 25%. In 2002, with local wool prices of KGS 38 per kg (cross-breeds) and KGS 60-70 per kg
for purebreds, the gain in gross value attributable to the superior quality of the F1 wool is estimated at
approximately US$35,500. This additional value is likely to increase in the coming years, as the
population of cross-breeds grows.

(iv) The project also explored the possibility of initiating a small competitive grant system to direct the
research community towards more farmer-focused research. Considerable effort was made in training
researchers and research managers, but the outcome was unsatisfactory. Firstly, because of the small
number of researchers in the country, there was collusion between applicants and reviewers. Secondly,
the quality of the research was poor; few of the proposals focused on the needs of smaller farmers (as
required, and based on an assessment carried out by RADS extension staff), and in the first round
about 70% of budgets was requested for travel. Implementation of this pilot in accordance with Bank
procedures proved to require time and effort beyond the scope of the project.

(v) The originally proposed Wool Testing and Information Center (US$1.6 million) was reconsidered
and eliminated from the investment plan after the number of wool sheep declined from about 7 million
to 1.5 million and the Livestock Institute was unable to produce a financially viable implementation
plan. Instead, the project financed two mobile wool testing units, a new technology that appears robust
and appropriate for field use in Central Asia and can be used on-farm, thereby improving quality
awareness among producers.

(vi) The project supported upgrading and installation of liquid nitrogen production systems in two
public AI and breeding centers. Despite assurances by the Government about the need for this
equipment, the demand for frozen semen (and consequently liquid nitrogen) turned out to be very low.
Moreover, the legal status of the AI centers was continuously in dispute. The AI center at the ELITA
farm has recently been transferred to the central Government (President's Office), while the AI center in
Osh is owned by the Ministry of Agriculture, but is not active until demand for semen increases. (Note:



                                                - 10 -

    the AI for sheep mainly used fresh semen).

4.2.4 Pasture research and pasture monitoring

4.2.4.1. Pasture monitoring

The objectives of the pasture monitoring were to carry out a country-wide monitoring and to develop a
rapid pasture monitoring system based on a limited number of parameters. These parameters were then
used to identify areas that should be protected from over-exploitation. The work was implemented by the
Gyprozem agency, and the objectives were achieved. In addition, Gyprozem showed considerable initiative
to build on its mapping and monitoring capacity and used it to explore urgent contemporary issues in
rangeland management resulting in a system of land leasing managed by the local governments. The
baseline pasture monitoring was performed using a set of about 300 key survey points representative of the
national pasture area. Follow-up rapid assessments were done annually in the areas completed earlier. The
final output was detailed descriptive reports and maps of the areas. The transfer of animal ownership to
villagers and the cessation of the traditional transhumance system increased the pressure on the close-in
village pastures, thereby threatening the sustainability of the lowland ranges. Gyprozem therefore initiated
some pilots and assisted local governments in developing detailed maps of their pasture area and setting up
leasing systems that would provide sustainable use of pastures not too far from the village, thereby
relieving the pressure on village pastures. The experience of the pilots in single aiyl okmotus in Chui,
Issyk-Kul, Naryn and Osh oblasts was extensively documented and discussed in workshops with
stakeholders, government officials and other interested parties. This process culminated in the development
of a set of generally accepted rules and an application and review system for herders who apply to lease
certain areas. These rules and experiences were then used to train 1,287 local government staff and key
farmers in pasture leasing. They also were used as a basis for the draft rangeland law. Stakeholders
especially appreciated the maps (which visualized property) and the arbitration (which reduced conflict).

The Gyprozem team also initiated closer collaboration with the pasture research team as well as work on
reseeding of overused pasture. Indeed, one of the notable achievements of this component was the tripartite
collaboration with the pasture research group and the KSBA producers groups and starting to take a
valley-based or small watershed-based approach to development. This effort was further enhanced by the
joint work with the Swiss-funded Central Asia Mountains Project (CAMP) in exploring the multiple-use
aspect of mountain pastures and emphasizing rural livelihoods rather than grazing alone.

This project component was well managed and executed, with good reporting and well thought-out
procurement of goods needed to fulfill essential tasks. The outcome is likely sustainable, as Gyprozem is
now part of the overall land management agency. The only risk is that its special skills and tools are
overused and diluted in the land management agency.

4.2.4.2 Pasture research

The objectives of the pasture research were to improve grazing management, improved pasture
management, and increase pasture production. Implemented as pilot demonstrations at state farms and
later at private farms, these objectives were broadly achieved. Two staff of the pasture institute were
trained in Turkey. Rotational and protected grazing were explored and demonstrated, as were the use of
new seeds and better fodder storage. The yields of cultivated lucerne and sainfoin increased from 2.1
tons/ha in 1998 to 8.5 tons/ha in 2002. Rotational grazing increased the yields of natural pasture form 0.2
to 0.5 tons/ha. Income from forage production increased from being negative to a positive 1,878 KGS/ha.
The improved technologies were disseminated in written materials, in transfer to the extension services (267



                                                    - 11 -

attendants), and in field demonstrations (672 attending farmers).


4.2.5 Project management

Project management was marginally satisfactory. In general, the PIU worked slowly but reasonably well.
Submission of workplans, budgets and audit reports was often late, but some of this was beyond the PIU's
control (see below). The PIU cooperated well with the MAWRPI management and functionally was an
integral part of that Ministry.

As envisaged in the SAR, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was initially managed by an international
consultant who established it and set up its financial and procurement systems.           Actual component
implementation was managed by the consultants/component leaders, except at Gyprozem where the director
managed the project-supported activities.       These local consultants were selected by, and often were
previous employees of, the beneficiary institution. They were assisted by a part-time accountant and,
initially, by other local consultants with close ties to the same beneficiary institutions. Each component
prepared a workplan and budget. These were reviewed by the PIU and the project director and entered into
the project workplan. The latter was reviewed by the Project Steering Council, Goscominvest, the Ministry
of Finance and IDA. Procurement was managed by the PIU.

After the end of the international PIU manager's term, the project management team was fully staffed by
Kyrgyz nationals. To increase efficiency and promote institutional sustainability, the Government and IDA
decided to combine the PIUs of the Agricultural Support Services Project and of the SDP into a single
Agricultural Projects Implementation Unit (APIU) with an overall director and a project coordinator for
each project. This resulted in some, but less than initially expected, economy of scale and better utilization
of specialist staff (e.g., procurement, financial management).

A frequently encountered problem was that Ministry officials often demanded that the project (and the PIU)
undertake or support activities not in the agreed workplan or even related to the project. A second problem
was the limited use and authority of the Project Advisory Council. As a consequence, project managers
and especially finance managers were exposed to considerable pressure from the two supervising ministries
without guidance and some protection from review and vetting by a PAC.

The demise of the Project Steering Council was largely related to the fact that Goscominvest and the
Ministry of Finance did not accept the concept and decisions of the Council, and required further review
and modifications of workplans and budgets after approval by the Council (despite the fact that
Goscominvest and the MOF were represented on the Council). Consequently, the Council became less and
less involved. The proposed change, after restructuring, to a Project Steering Council did not substantially
improve matters, because interference and micro-management by mid-level Ministry of Finance staff
continued. Lengthy negotiations between Ministry of Agriculture (and the APIU) and Ministry of Finance
about project workplans and budgets caused major delays (of up to six months) in final approval and
jeopardized timely implementation.

Project financial management benefited from having only two financial managers during the project
implementation period and from the considerable technical assistance provided. In the initial years a strong
financial manager was required to resist demands from the Ministry of Agriculture (largely related to
inexperience with IDA funding limitations) to use funds beyond the objectives of the project. In the later
years, excessive time was required to respond to the persistent interference in project workplans and
budgets by staff in the Ministry of Finance and Goscominvest, and to extraordinarily frequent reviews by



                                                     - 12 -

tax and auditing authorities and others.

The project experienced 7 changes in the position of Minister of Agriculture and similarly frequent changes
of key staff in the Ministry of Finance. Initially, the Ministry of Finance had partly delegated its oversight
responsibility to Goscominvest, but the latter was abolished in 2000 and MoF then took direct
responsibility for implementation oversight. The staff turnover and changes in agencies had a negative
impact on implementation, as each new minister and/or staff needed considerable time to become
familiarized with the project and its issues.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The project generated a number of both tangible and intangible benefits. The tangible ones are included in
the calculation (Annex 3). The intangible benefits include the environmental benefits of better grazing
management, exclusion of steeply sloped land from grazing,            the social benefits of guided pasture
distribution (appreciated by farmers because it prevents conflict) and of community development through
cooperative efforts. The economic returns were calculated for wool and meat marketing, for animal health,
and for pasture improvement. The economic analysis has been prepared based on average annual wool
prices and incremental production starting in the second year of the project after the import of the improved
breeding rams and ewes. The ex-post economic analysis has been prepared for those components with
measurably financial benefits. Incremental values are based on extrapolating the values of the last four
years of the project for the next 16 years and an the assumption of unchanging values thereafter. The
economic rate of return as a whole is estimated at 14.6%, excluding the environmental and social benefits
(see Annex 3). While lower than estimated at appraisal, this is not surprising: (i) the project scope was
changed (to piloting and demonstrating, rather than mainstreaming), (ii) international market prices
declined substantially during project implementation, and (iii) the sheep flock diminished sharply from an
expected 5 million to 1.5 million.
The environmental benefits have not been included in this estimate, which therefore understates the overall
benefits of the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

As with the economic analysis, the financial analysis was carried out for 4 components; wool and meat
marketing, animal health, and pasture improvement, and aggregated for the project as a whole. The FRR
for the project as a whole is estimated at 13% (NPV of US$ 5.75 million at 0.75% discount rate), with the
FRRs for individual components varying between -5% and 21%. Because total costs were used for the
calculations, the lower rates of return relate to programs that were down-scaled to pilots at restructuring.
The 21% return on wool production and sales is lower than the 57% FRR estimated at appraisal, but the
appraisal calculations did not account for the VAT tax and were highly optimistic about the national flock
size and international prices (both declined significantly).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The overall institutional development impact is considered marginal, but this rating may change (in either
direction) as time goes by. The project was timely as it triggered and supported a dialogue, institutional
changes and capacity building during the institutional transition. The project, and the national debate it
provoked, contributed to a broad public interest and involvement in a discussion about the direction of the
agricultural economy, in which sheep historically played a major role. The project contributed to the
creation of important laws for further agricultural and environmental development, in particular the Law on



                                                     - 13 -

Cooperatives and the Rangeland Management Law. A Veterinary Law was drafted but is still being
debated at project closing. Various awareness programs (see Annex 11) as well as participation in national
shows also contributed, in their own way, to informing the public about the issues in sheep development,
including public health risks and economics.
l Farmers benefitted from both the technical training and the opportunity to come together, exchange
    experiences and review their options in the transition. This was greatly appreciated, as many other
    lines of communication and travel were no longer in place or not affordable. These exchanges (e.g., in
    training sessions, at KSBA Board meetings, at sheep shows and auctions) contributed to consensus
    building among farmers and provided field information to government officials and scientists who,
    because of budgetary restrictions on their travel, were poorly informed about the conditions and
    dynamics in the field.
l The project supported and created a number of institutions, in particular the national and local sheep
    producers cooperatives.     Although initially created in a top-down manner, the voice of farmers
    increased over time, and the national board meetings of the KSBA as well as the various workshops
    offered opportunity to express and hear opinions, and helped to shape some rural and national
    consensus. The project contributed to a national debate among agricultural and animal health
    specialists about the privatization of services; among land managers (including those at the village
    level) about rangeland tenure; and among farmers and breeders about breeding policies. These policy
    debates, backed by the real-time examples of the pilots financed by the project, resulted in policy
    documents and in a number of laws on institutional reform. Among the outcomes has been a draft
    veterinary law and a rangeland law that are based on practical experiences in the a number of raions
    and oblasts. However, due to political and budgetary constraints not all the suggested policies and/or
    investment could be mainstreamed during the period of project implementation.
l The project's institutional impact at the government level was initially limited due to the rapid turnover
    of higher level staff in the ministries. The dialogue and accountability improved when the Minister of
    MAWRPI and the Deputy Minister stayed in place for more than three years and were able to follow
    up on project results as well as constraints.
l     Finally, the supervision oversight helped to improve budgetary discipline and somewhat reduced rent
    seeking by Government officials.
On the negative side:
    (i) The project was not able to change the focus of the Ministry of Finance from direct short-term
         return to a broader long-term view of the possible contribution of this project to the national
         economy. This may in part be related to the fact that (until 2003) farmers were tax-exempt and did
         not directly contribute to the Treasury.
    (ii) The project was for too long dominated by the separate components and their staff, and not
         mainstreamed in the institutions and within the Livestock Department (including Veterinary
         Services) of the Ministry of Agriculture. Although it received considerable attention at the higher
         levels of the Ministry of Agriculture, it did little to contribute to new thinking (except for APIU and
         Minister) and/or streamlining of the departmental responsibilities in the Ministry.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

(i) A worldwide decline in wool and meat prices. Wool prices fell from US$4,880/ton in 1995 to
US$3,050/ton in 1999 before slowly rising again to US$3,590/ton in 2002. Consequently, international
traders and even local wool spinners preferred to purchase wool on the international market, where the
quality was more consistent. Meat prices also declined from US$3,295 in 1996 to US$2,610 in 1999, but
thereafter rose significantly. This had only limited impact in Kyrgyzstan, because high local demand kept



                                                      - 14 -

domestic mutton prices close to parity.

(ii) Cost of credit and continued weakness of the banking sector The cost of borrowing in the local credit
market was much higher than foreseen at project design and appraisal. Many of the banks that were seen
as potential partners at appraisal collapsed by 1998/1999 in the wake of the Russian financial crisis. The
capacity of the IDA-supported Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC), created in early 1997,
developed only slowly. It charged high interest rates and was unwilling (largely due to lack of experience)
to accept wool stocks as collateral. This considerably slowed down the marketing efforts of the KSBA.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i)      Overall, a major factor affecting implementation was the lack of full understanding at the higher
levels of Government of the fundamental development objectives of the project and of the concept of rural
development in general. The Ministry of Finance's primary concern during the later project years was the
repayment of invested funds to MoF, and their broader concern about managing the Government's foreign
debt. Longer-term benefits, whether fiscal or developmental, were not readily recognized. With this
preoccupation, MoF micro-managed project budgeting and implementation which caused considerable
uncertainty and delays. MoF staff also continuously queried and second-guessed MAWRPI (which was the
designated implementing agency) and project staff on technical issues, especially on capacity building
investments such as technical and language training and technical assistance. The reluctance to support
such investments may be explained by the lack of proper financial oversight during the early stages of
implementation, and the substantial expenditures on poorly used technical assistance. Whatever the
motivation and explanation, the effect was to impede the achievement of the development objectives.

(ii)     Frequent changes of senior officials and underlying policies The high turnover of the higher-level
ministry staff complicated project implementation, especially as incoming ministers and/or deputies had
(initially) little understanding of the project and its objectives. The new ministers and deputy ministers
needed time to familiarize themselves with the project and often were reluctant to approve workplans and
make other crucial decisions, causing delays the project implementation.

(iii)    Lack of counterpart funding and slow decision making by the Ministry of Finance. The lack of
timely and sufficient counterpart funding was one of the most crucial factors explaining the only marginal
achievement of the project development objectives. Firstly, the project only received 42% of the planned
amount of government co-financing (see Annex 2). Due to the very slow approval of workplans, a number
of activities, such as pasture improvement field works, pasture development activities and fodder
demonstrations, were either cancelled or their implementation was delayed.             Especially during the
international TA period, this proved costly as the international consultants were on site without a working
budget or without assurances that the planned activities would be carried out. Furthermore, the delays
often lingered into spring which jeopardized the project activities that were seasonal and had to be carried
out in spring and summer. This led to two other undesirable risks: (i) contractors were paid the IDA part
of their contract, and soon started to expect that counterpart funding would not be forthcoming and raised
the price of their contracts; and (ii) the project consultants continued to work with the expectation that the
funding would be forthcoming.          IDA and IFAD, being aware of the budgetary constraints of the
Government, provided some relief in 2001 by increasing the portion of operational costs funded through the
project thereby reducing the Government contribution.

(iv)     Lack of adherence to plans and contracts. The frequent mid-stream changes in consultant contracts
or payment and ad-hoc changes in workplans insisted upon by the Ministry of Finance, often without
providing any justification or explanation, caused considerable uneasiness among those associated with the
project. The issue was brought to the attention of the MoF in a special letter from the Country Director.



                                                     - 15 -

The assurances received during appraisal and negotiations that agreements and conditions would help
safeguard against such implementation risks proved insufficient.

(v)      Government inspections.In part because of alleged procurement irregularities early in the project,
various government agencies (tax administration, President's Administration, Ministry of Finance,
Chamber of Auditors, etc.) repeatedly inspected, investigated and audited the procedures and financial
records of the project. No irregularities were found. Although each inspection or investigation was
legitimate, they posed an enormous burden on the PIU because there was no coordination between the
various inspections and auditing agencies and none was willing to review or accept reports by others.
There was considerable duplication (in one of the years there were 12 such inspections), efforts to
rationalize these audits were only slowly accepted by Government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Overall, project management, including financial management and procurement, was reasonably competent.
In part due to the uncertainties (including the continuous specter of inspections and audits) and delays in
workplan approvals, project management was rather more reactive than proactive. PIU staff frequently
depended on Bank staff for decision making and/or used Bank staff to reach agreement with the Ministry of
Finance. Major decisions were often postponed until supervision missions would resolve them.

Project reporting deteriorated somewhat after the departure of the expatriate PIU manager, as did the
quality of disbursement applications after the departure of the first financial manager. Disbursement
required careful supervision to weed out illegible expenditure items.           The project recognized these
weaknesses and provided considerable TA to improve financial management.

Management at the component level was of variable quality, with some components producing good
records and reporting. Monitoring and evaluation was weak, despite external training of project staff.
Some of the staff that benefitted from training left the project before completion. A monitoring system of
physical assets was put in place. The concept of impact measurement was not commonly understood and
accepted, and the turnover of staff led to less than desirable monitoring and evaluation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$16 million, to be funded by an IDA credit of SDR
7.8 million, an IFAD loan of SDR 2.35 million, and a Government contribution of US$1.08 million. After
restructuring, an amount equivalent to 2 million SDR was cancelled from the IDA credit. The actual
disbursement at project closing is US$8.45 million, comprising US$ 5.8 million (SDR 4.2 ) from the IDA
credit and US$2.1 million (SDR 1.58 million) from the IFAD loan. The Government contributed US$0.45
million. The undisbursed amounts were cancelled (see Annex 2). Disbursements were seriously affected
by the slow release of counterpart funds. After the restructuring, the lack of counterpart funding became a
major and crucial issue, which was only resolved at the very last year of the project, but by then most of the
investments were too late to be effective.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability ratings take into account the overall institutional insecurity in this transition country, the
uncertainties about future government funding, and the particular sustainability of institutions and
investments. Overall, those investments that reached farmers (genetics, local pasture leasing, private
veterinary care, and selected local cooperatives) are considered sustainable and may further expand.
Investments that depend on government funding are more tenuous, as budget support is insecure and
governmental institutions are prone to interference.


                                                     - 16 -

(i) The KSBA -- a core component of the project -- is expected to be financially sustainable in 2 to 3
years, provided it receives further support, especially for its development effort. The latter is clearly a
public sector function, concentrating on remote farmers and thereby contributing significantly to the
poverty reduction effort. Even its commercial activities, concentrated as they are on the poor and remote,
carry a public good aspect, and the Government should consider this in reviewing its support for the
Cooperative. Both IDA and IFAD agree in principle that the KSBA, with its major outreach function, can
be supported under the ASSP and should be part of future rural development investment in the country.

(ii) Gyprozem, which now is part of the national Land Management Agency, has carved out a sound role
for itself and will continue to be a key player in rangeland management.

(iii) The Veterinary Laboratory and Veterinary Department continue to be state funded, but may derive
some benefits from user fees for activities started under the project. Privatization may provide for fiscal
savings. Further privatization of veterinary staff depends to some extend on the rural economy -- i.e., how
many veterinarians can be supported by the livestock economy. The main risk is re-establishment of public
sector veterinary services, especially at raion level, creating unequal competition. The positive experience
gained in contracting for services, however, should convince state agencies that they can sub-contract
service provision instead of re-creating veterinary services within the realm of the state.

(iv) The breeding component, especially the upgrading of flock genetics, is sustainable and is likely to
expand further. This is mainly farmer-driven and has already led to further farmer initiatives such as the
creation of the Merino Foundation.

(iv) The Livestock and the Pasture Institutes have recently been transferred from the Academy of Sciences
to MAWRPI and will continue to play a research role. The project has helped to explore certain options
for research that are now considered in the reform process. The Livestock Institute's role in managing the
merino flock will continue, with some support from the Merino Foundation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As envisaged in the restructuring plan, the project has explored a variety of investments and concepts that
can be mainstreamed through follow-up investments. This approach was based on an assumption of a
follow-up livestock project. The latter has now been postponed indefinitely, leaving some of the institutions
and pilots in an uncertain state.

With respect to natural resources management, Gyprozem has now gained major experience and tools to
help in monitoring rangeland use, developing grazing plans, and allocating of rangeland. It is well in line
with other on-going projects such as the West Tian Shan Trans-Boundary Biodiversity Project, the
Swiss-funded Central Asian Mountain Project, and future IDA projects such as the Village Investment
Project.    Gyprozem should be further strengthened and should build linkages with international
organizations such as ICIMOD, ICARDA and ILRI. Future IDA projects should utilize this organization
that has been, and should be, playing an important role in assuring sustainable use of natural resources.
The project has, in this respect, made an important start.

Although the project has contributed to some institutional and skill development, this is the area where the
Kyrgyz Republic should put more of its resources in order to catch up with the rest of the world. So far
only minor investments have been made in agricultural training of mid-level cadres (examples are the
vocational training supported by Switzerland) or in academic training (animal health, animal production,
economics).



                                                      - 17 -

With respect to marketing and improved access of farmers to inputs, fodder and markets, the KSBA
continues to play a major role, especially with respect to reaching poor and remote producers. The KSBA's
business plan calls for two main activities: (i) marketing and input supply, and (ii) development activities.
With respect to the latter it has a number of agreements with other donors (USAID, GTZ), and should be
able to expand this work. The marketing activity has been established and will expand further, mainly
depending on the skills of KSBA management and the availability of working capital. The KSBA will need
another two years of support, however, before it will become financially sustainable. This sustainability
has been compromised by the lack of a follow-up project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The work on project design started in 1994. By the time the project was approved by IDA's Board of
Directors in April 1996, the situation in Kyrgyzstan had changed substantially.            Farm and flock
privatization had progressed, the number of sheep had declined precipitously, and farmer priorities were
shifting from wool to meat production. These changes were not reflected in the project documents,
suggesting inadequate IDA guidance to the consultant team employed by the Government to design the
project. In particular, IDA could have made a greater effort to help the Kyrgyz Government in finding
bilateral donors to finance substantial parts of the TA component and in carrying out a more critical review
of the economics of the Kyrgyz sheep industry in transition.

7.2 Supervision:
The need for intensive supervision was recognized at appraisal, but the target frequency of three annual
supervision missions was not always achieved, especially in the early years of the project.              The
questionable transparency of the Government's decisions in respect of procurement and financing, as well
as the limited technical skills, should have required more diligent review by the relevant specialists at this
stage of the project, even though (and maybe because) it was largely managed by foreign consultants
during that period. The Bank's team did not recognize the unsatisfactory implementation and development
impact performance in time, and neither the Bank nor the Government took timely corrective actions prior
to the midterm review.

Appreciation of the project problems increased after a critical review in December 1998, when serious
flaws in implementation were highlighted. This resulted in a communication from IDA to Government in
May 1999, indicating that disbursement would be suspended if no action were taken. In 1999, the
supervision team started to identify corrective measures and provided a more realistic assessment of issues
in project implementation and development impact.          These issues were taken up during the project
restructuring in October 1999 that produced a down-scaled, more realistic implementation plan. During
1999-2000, the supervision also provided for technical review and input in technical matters as well as in
financial management. However, after 1999 considerable time and efforts were spent to deal with such
issues as counterpart funding, Government inspections, enforcement of contractual obligations, etc.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was marginally satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
This was the first IDA and IFAD financed project with the Kyrgyz Ministry of Agriculture -- an agency
whose experience with international financial institutions was limited to participation in an agricultural



                                                     - 18 -

sector review and in the general Rehabilitation Credit that included funding for some agriculture inputs.
The Ministry also lacked experience in non-Soviet agricultural technology and in financial management.
This lack of experience was insufficiently accepted, both during the agricultural sector review as during
project design and preparation. This led to unwarranted expectations, inadequate project design, very
lengthy and contentious negotiations, and later to implementation problems.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
MAWRPI. Initially, the borrower's performance was jeopardized by the high rate of staff turnover (with
two changes of ministers and four changes of deputy minister responsible for the project during the first
year of implementation). Vested interests of senior officials dominated the government's implementation
decisions and diluted accountability. MAWRPI's performance considerably improved after 1999 when a
new minister (and his deputy) took a personal interest in improving the implementation of the project and
provided guidance to the PIU and the implementing agencies.

Financing. Each component prepared an annual workplan and budget. These were reviewed by the PIU
and the project director (deputy minister) and entered into the project workplan. The latter was reviewed
by the Project Steering Council, Goscominvest, Ministry of Finance, and IDA. The approved workplans
were largely implemented by the components, each of which employed a part-time accountant in order to
comply with IDA accounting requirements. The serious problems experienced in obtaining counterpart
funding (noted in Section 5.2.) significantly delayed annual workplan approvals.

Audits were performed by international auditors acceptable to IDA as well as by various Government
auditors and inspectors. The quality of audit reports varied and, unfortunately, different auditors and
inspectors barely used and generally did not accept the finding of other audits.

Intra-governmental relationships. Relations with the Ministry of Finance were variable. Goscominvest
was a major counterpart agency during most of the project implementation period, providing reasonable
guidance, but could provide only limited support in ensuring counterpart funding. After 2000, when
Goscominvest was abolished, the main counterpart was the Ministry of Finance, which had little experience
concerning its new mandate to oversee and guide investment projects, and its involvement did little to
enhance project performance. Indeed, it displayed a strong inclination to interfere in internal project
matters without having the necessary sectoral or technical know-how. Each change in internal work
programs or expenditure plans required extensive justification and multiple explanations.        Effective
follow-up to decisions made was often lacking. And not infrequently changes to agreements reached
previously were imposed unilaterally on project management and MAWRPI.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
During the first two years, project implementation was managed by a foreign consulting firm which put in
place the tools and procedures for effective project management. While these were necessary and valuable
activities, the government was not willing to commit further funding for international TA. The tenure of
the expatriate PIU manager was renewed only as a personal contract for one year, with a mandate to train
his Kyrgyz counterpart to take over at the end of this contract.

Both the Ministry and the APIU were somewhat reluctant to resolve issues (notably those with the Ministry
of Finance) and tended to wait for a supervision mission to list and resolve all the issues.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance can be characterized as ambivalent, from a period where the
Government wanted to close the project, to periods of solid support. Moreover, substantial differences of



                                                    - 19 -

opinion between MAWRPI (the designated implementation agency) and the Ministry of Finance regarding
project direction and implementation led to much uncertainty, many delays and, finally, to MoF involving
itself in technical issues outside the professional competence of the concerned staff, which caused further
delays.

8. Lessons Learned

a)       Sectoral investment during a time of major farm restructuring or institutional reform, where the
outcome is by no means clear, carries a substantial risk of making wrong investment decisions. In this
particular case, many project beneficiaries were still undergoing changes in physical and legal asset
ownership, and the shape of the industry substantially changed during implementation. Consequently, some
investments identified at appraisal were not feasible. Sound technical and economic supervision may catch
most of these during project implementation, but it requires good arguments to convince the counterparts.

b)       The project was appraised in a country that was used to a centrally planned investment climate,
and that paradigm persisted in many minds and in the procedures of the implementing agencies. Ministries,
stakeholders and the general public were not well informed about development in general, or about the
specific development objectives of the project. This was later somewhat corrected, but most early project
investments appear to have focused on supporting state farms. Even at project closing, the importance and
value of the KSBA as a farmer organization that specifically directs its effort to private, small and
medium-size producers appears still insufficiently understood by the Government. In retrospect greater
effort should have been spent to consult all stakeholders, and it should be better recognized that the initial
expectations in respect of the project objectives were largely misdirected.

c)       Flexibility in implementation greatly helped to overcome some of the weaknesses of design. Such
flexibility is highly recommended for investment projects during transition, because it allows time and room
for learning while doing. However, this would have required special skills on the part of the technical
assistance team recruited to assist with implementation, i.e., experience in development dialogue, in
addition to the technical skills.      This aspect appeared to be insufficiently emphasized during the
procurement of the technical assistance packages and allowed the project to take a direction that was only
corrected after the midterm review. There also was a tendency by the implementing institutions to lean on
the lending institution for guidance in policy matters and technical development. Responding appropriately
requires judicious intervention (to prevent becoming part of the project implementation team) and inclusion
of specific skills in supervision teams. As it was, the project was indeed implemented with the participation
of animal health, animal breeding and pasture management specialists in supervision teams. The costs and
benefits of providing such assistance are difficult to assess.

d)       The international technical assistance for establishing project management capacity in a country
without such experience proved valuable, with benefits that extended to subsequent IDA-funded projects in
MAWRPI and other ministries.          However, strong expatriate leadership may discourage counterpart
participation, whether for good reasons or because it limits rent-seeking behavior. The perceived high costs
appear justified in this case, but were contended locally as excessive which, in view of the great differences
in salary levels (i.e. $ 50/month compared to over $ 5,000/month) is not surprising. This issue is common
in most transition economies.

e)       Investment in hardware (laboratory equipment, liquid nitrogen machine, etc.) without investment in
operating skills leads to procurement of goods that are either not suitable or are under-utilized and as such
a waste or resources. This lesson is well known elsewhere, but not yet among the local decision makers in
this project. Although training was planned in the project, it was often rejected by cost-concerned



                                                     - 20 -

reviewers in Goscominvest and the Ministry of Finance. The severe limits placed by the Government, after
1999, on investments in human resource development (as planned during the restructuring) not only
jeopardized the investment in goods and services (some of which are redundant), but also deprived the
Kyrgyz Republic of opportunities to upgrade the skills of its cadres to international standards.

f)       The use of local consultants as intermediaries between the PIU and implementing institutions
initially failed.   This was largely due to the lack of experienced local consultants. Also reliance on
consultants with strong linkages to the recipient institutions may lead to subjective investments and actions
(i.e. the wool consultant neglected to recognize the meat value of sheep)         With one exception, these
consultant groups also tended to perceive themselves as, and develop into, separate entities with a narrow
focus that often differed from the mandate of the institute or department they were intended to serve -- and
these "mother" institutions soon shared this perception.           As such (i) long term commitment to
inexperienced consultants should be avoided, and (ii) employment of consultants to work with institutions
that they worked for in the immediate past should be designed with care to avoid conflict of interest.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

   Comments by the Ministry of Finance
   Unofficial translation
     The Sheep Development Project is one of the first large investment projects implemented in Kyrgyzstan
     from 1996 to 2002. As it was noted by the World Bank experts' team in the ICR, this project rated
     satisfactory. However, having reviewed this Report, we would like to present our principle comments
     and remarks.

     During preparation and initial phase of the SDP implementation the Kyrgyz Republic was
     inexperienced in implementing such project, that led to existing negative outcomes. The consultants
     prepared inadequate project documentation that was approved by the IDA and carried out later on, due
     to that the project underwent the restructuring in 1999. Based on above, we consider that the
     assessment of both the Bank and the Kyrgyz Republic Government performance should be the same.

     (The rest of the letter from the MoF concerns comments on - and suggested corrections of - the draft
     ICR which have largely been included in the text or noted in final document)

   Comments from the Ministry of Agriculture
   Unofficial translation
   Project's objective: Incomes increase and improvement of people's life standards dealing with the sheep
   product production and realization and servicing the sheep industry by the development of this industry.
   To achieve this objective, the following three main tasks were:
   1.    To increase the profitability and efficiency of sheep breeding and wool production;
   2.    Privatization of services provided to farmers including wool marketing and veterinary services;
   3.    To improve the management and conservation of natural grazing resources.

   To perform these tasks the project proposed activities in the following main directions:
   l To organize sheep and wool farmers into farmers' associations or groups through which essential
        services can be provided;
   l To develop a competitive marketing structure with incentives to increase sheep product quality and
        wool production;



                                                     - 21 -

l To increase sheep and wool productivity through establishing training and advisory services for
    private farmers and supporting selected breeding activities;
l To develop and disseminate sustainable pastures management methods.


This policy of the project implementation, based on the market relations, required deviation from the
planned economy and transition to the intensive transmission of management techniques to technical
specialists and sheep breeders under the market conditions. In this view based on directions and specific
tasks, five components managed by selected implementing agencies has been organized:
1. Animal Health Protection (implementing agency  State Veterinary Department)
2. Sheep Breeding Research (implementing agency  Livestock Institute of the Agrarian Academy
    before 2001)
3. Pastures:
   l Pasture Monitoring, Evaluation and Protection Subcomponent (implementing agency  Kyrgyz
         Gyprozem under the Gosregister)
   l Pasture Improvement and Fodder Conservation Subcomponent  (implementing agency -
         Pastures and Fodder Research Institute).
4. Private Sheep Breeding Farms Development (implementing agency  KSBA)
5. Project Implementation Unit (implementing agency  MAWRPI).

On the whole, considering the novelty of the project and its pilot implementation under the transition
period conditions, it may be evaluated as satisfactory.

Project design assessment: The initial project design was developed in 1994 and after some adjustments
was approved by the World Bank and Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in 1996. The project became
effective in autumn of 1996, after that the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (currently the
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry) started to implement the project.
Inexperience of national participants involved in the project design preparation and their lack of
knowledge of the market economy and finance procedures of the international donor organizations led to
that the project design had has significantly high part of the technical assistance from the credit funds.
Unfortunately, project designers composition from the World Bank also did not include experts with
good knowledge of traditions and peculiarities of our country and real situation in the sheep industry.
They did not consider the mentality of national people and tendencies of transition period. During project
preparation the national consultants mainly oriented on opinions of the international consultants
regarding market tendencies and their consequences. It should be mentioned that during the process of
the project design and further implementation due to emerging changes in internal and external
environments (finance, technical and organizational aspects) changes and corrections were made also in
the structure, contents and work methods of components. It obviously reflected on effectiveness of their
activities and effectiveness of the project on the whole. Optimistic project design and theorized approach
not often depending on realities of transition period led to the restructuring in 1998-1999 and reduced
the scope of the project implementation to pilot activities.
Project design and its further restructuring may be evaluated as satisfactory.




                                                  - 22 -

Project implementation progress:          Due to the repeated replacement of the project management and
fluctuation of staff of all levels during the first three-four years, the main implementing agency in the
person of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources did not regular control the adherence to the
project's objectives and structure. This fact delayed project implementation and reflected on
non-fulfillment of various activities in components. Status on project implementation became more
stable for the last three years, since 2000 when the situation with project's management and its
components was stabilized. At that time the project has been restructured, it reduced the scope of its
implementation to pilot activities and improved the opportunity for monitoring and evaluation of interim
results. It should be noted that sheep breeding was the traditional industry of the country, so the project
implementation progress was always at the center of attention of the Government and Jogorku Kenesh.

Inadequate public reaction in the person of deputies and other political and state officials also affected
the project implementation progress. They always evaluated the project implementation progress
subjectively and it led to repeated audits of fiscal and other respective agencies. Such situation did not
always reflect positively on effectiveness of fulfillment of planned activities and took resources and time.

In addition, one of the main reasons of low project implementation has been inadequate and delayed
financing from the Ministry of Finance, which led to implementation delays with some planned activities
initiated from the mid of the financial year and even later on. Actually, the situation with timely
financing was fully solved only in the closing year of the project.

Project implementation progress may be evaluated as marginally satisfactory.

Project sustainability:     Unjustified high optimistic initial design of the project adversely affected the
sustainability and institutionalization of the project's objectives. Implementing agencies for components
were not initially oriented on achieving the sustainability of activities carried out within the project and
post-project institutionalization.   Initial management of the project implementation by the foreign
consulting company played its role in reduction of the project sustainability. In the result of which
national management of the project, based on the counterpart principle, partially kept aloof without
realizing its importance in decision making and responsibility for institutionalization. It should be noted
again that repeated replacement of project management did not promote building of sustainability and
gradual transition to extra financing resources.

In the very beginning of the project it was necessary to concentrate the main activity on achieving the
proposed objectives around the key component "Private Sheep Enterprise Development", since this
component was to be the umbrella for further results received and responsible for their dissemination to
the final beneficiaries, mainly poor farmers  sheep breeders. Unfortunately, understanding of such
approach in practical implementation was only understood by project management at the final stage, it
significantly reflected on the project sustainability. At the same time each component separately
achieved positive results promoting further development of institutionalization of the project
components, for instance, establishment of agricultural sheep and goats breeders cooperative "KSBA,"
the "Merino Foundation" for fine-fleeced sheep breeding, a special unit for pastures monitoring and
evaluation under the Gyprozem Institute, and others. It should be mentioned that established entities
require future support from the government regarding realization of socially oriented tasks. Project
sustainability may be evaluated as marginally satisfactory.




                                                   - 23 -

Results and effectiveness:      By the project results, a number of activities have been carried out, mainly
oriented to a long-term development of beneficiaries. It did not, and was not intended to have quick
effects that both final beneficiaries and people of the country expected. Hence, at the initial stage of the
project implementation, there has been objective and subjective criticism involving the project
restructuring. The decision regarding transfer of the Agricultural Training and Advisory Services
(ATAS) into the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) in 1999 was a mistake. At that moment
ATAS was at the critical stage of its activities and the ASSP just started the implementation stage. So,
we lost the opportunity of timely dissemination of information about project results and their further
distribution to final beneficiaries, since this component by the initial project design was planned to be a
transmission link between project's components.

The following should be noted as positive results: establishment of over 100 sheep marketing
cooperatives in all regions of the republic; practical works on breeding a new bred of fine-fleeced lambs
"Kyrgyz mountain Merino;" establishment of three breeding flocks of purebred Australian Merinos on
the base of private sheep farms. The economic effectiveness from results received visually demonstrated
during auctions, where prices for crossbred lambs were higher in 1.5-2 times, and price for 1 kg of
"Australized" coarse wool was US$1.5-2 in the local market.

All conditions for modern pasture mapping and their evaluation have been created, legislative structure
on rangeland use has been conformed to the market mechanisms, recommendations on pasture
improvement and fodder conservation have been developed and effectively disseminated, that allowed to
increase profitability of the sheep industry.

During conducted activities on animal disease control, the infection rate of brucellosis among both
animals and people has significantly reduced. Modern methods of sheep vaccination with attraction of
private veterinary structures have been completed, the Republican diagnostic laboratory is equipped
with modern equipment, and material base of oblast and rayon veterinary services is strengthened, two
modern mini laboratories on wool testing have been procured for the Livestock Institute. The positive
result is seen in raising the professional level of staff through practical implementation of the SDP
project and gaining the work experience with other donor organizations. Project implementation results
and economic effectiveness may be evaluated as satisfactory.

Lessons learned and conclusions: The main critical lesson is that the Sheep Development Project
implementation became the pilot area for all performers and supervisors involved. Even the World Bank
and KR Ministry of Finance learned specific lessons as parties financed the first agricultural investment
project in the Kyrgyz Republic at the most difficult stage of the radical transition and reforms in the
agrarian sector of the economy.
Based on project implementation results the following main conclusions may be drawn:
l Team of experts with sound professional skills and knowledge in forecasting the economic
    tendencies in various areas should be selected thoroughly during investment projects preparation and
    at the stage of their implementation.
l Selection of implementing agencies should be more thorough and more attention should be paid to
    sustainability and future institutionalization of results received. Specific attention is to be paid to
    direct performers and their respective motivation on sustainability progress and continuation of
    post-project activities. In this view, regular training and professional development within the project
    is to be the essential part of design and future strict fulfillment of obligations concerning
    implementing agencies capacity building. Finally, the best investments are human resources
    investments.
l Considering wide opportunities of the technical assistance attraction on the grant basis, to envisage



                                                  - 24 -

       reduction of its proportion from the credit resources; to conduct policy of coordination of donor
       organizations at the stage of project preparation and implementation; to envisage policy of
       co-financing of activities by the final beneficiaries.
  l Introduction of the project implementation monitoring and evaluation system will allow improving a
       situation with regular public awareness and donors about results. Systematic discussions of the
       project implementation progress at the level of performers, management, donors, supervisors will
       positively reflect on timely solution of emerging problems and necessary agreements.

   Recommendations:        It is necessary to generalize the whole existing experience of this project
   implementation and to develop practical recommendations for all levels of the governmental
   implementing agencies, other governmental concerned parties, donor institutions and non-governmental
   organizations.   The following works for the logical finalization of the results received are to be
   continued:
  l Further development of the agricultural sheep and goats breeders cooperative "KSBA" and
       expansion of the developed wool marketing system;
  l Final works on breeding the new sheep bred "Kyrgyz mountain merino"
  l Full use of pastures mapping capabilities
  l Use of developed methods using private veterinary structures in anti-epizootic disease control, and
       future support for further development of the private veterinary services.

(b) Cofinanciers:
No comment received.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a

10. Additional Information

no additional information




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase the profitability and efficiency of   Private breeding services established.        Profitability increased, especially with respect
sheep and wool farming.                                                                      to meat and higher quality wool sales.

Privatize services to farmers, including       Cooperatives are a competitive players in the Wool marketing through the KSBA and local
veterinary services and wool marketing:        wool and farm input market.                   coops has reached a market share of 1% of
                                                                                             total market. KSBA's payment system has
                                                                                             improved cash payments, and its
                                                                                             quality-based incentive program is increasing
                                                                                             the quality of wool produced.

Animal health services                         Private animal health services backed up by   Private animal health service is broadly
                                               draft law. Health and breeding services have accepted - currently 458 private veterinarians
                                               prioritized agenda.
                                                                                             The law on veterinary services is being
                                                                                             discussed.

                                                                                             Have been transferred to IDA's ASS Project,
                                                                                             SDP still provides inputs. Have achieved a
Extension services                                                                           better service of farmers, and a range of
                                                                                             collaborative programs developed.
 Improve management and conservation of        Pasture leasing law accepted, with            Law on pasture monitoring passed.
natural pastures by farmers. Developing        decentralized responsibility.
relevant techniques for monitoring the status                                                A national level pasture surveying and
of natural pastures; and research aimed at     Ayl Okmotu staff have the capacity to arrange monitoring network established for regular
improving sheep feed production and fodder leasing and monitor pasture use.                  monitoring of pastures; all country's
conservation                                                                                 rangelands have been surveyed and mapped.

                                                                                             A methodology for rational utilization of
                                                                                             pastures through lease arrangements
                                                                                             established and piloted.

                                                                                             Demonstrations on improved sheep feed
                                               Use of winter pasture declined; 50% of winter production carried out for a large number of
                                               fodder provided as preserved fodder (hay).    farmers.
                                               New fodder varieties introduced.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increase in profitability and efficiency of
sheep and wool farming:                        Pure bred flock of high yielding Merino       Pure bred flock of 1,824 Merinos established
  Increase in profitability of wool            established.                                  Wool yield increased from 4 to 4.44 kg.
                                                                                             Estimated total of 116,500 improved wool
                                               Estimated total of 45,000 improved wool       sheep present on 1,248 farms
                                               sheep present on 1,040 farm                   Wool price rise by 25% because of increased
                                                                                             wool length (+7%), wool clip (+12%),
                                               Wool prices increased                         improved fiber diameter (from 23.3 to 22.1
                                                                                             mu).
                                                                                             Increased value of crossbred lambs
   Increase in profitability of meat                                                         30%-50% over KFW
2. Create viable producer associations:
   Farmer groups                               105 Sheep Producer Groups (SPGs) to be        117 producers groups with 1250 members
                                               established                                   (extended families), in total representing a
                                                                                             6000 individual (and mainly small) farmers.

  National producers association               Kyrgyz Sheep Producer Association (KSBA) About one third of members used KSBA to
                                               established                                   market wool
                                                                                             (KSBA) established, as well as offshoot
                                                                                             organization of Merino producers




                                                                  - 26 -

                                                                                              Overall, 180% average annual increase in the
                                                                                              wool business since 1998, but expansion
                                                                                              limited by available working capital
                                                                                              Viability of KSBA threatened by the recent
                                                                                              insistence of MOF that KSBA has to
                                                                                              reimburse Government for goods and
                                                                                              services received under to project.


3 . Develop competitive markets for          KSBA marketed 53 tons of wool-in 2002.           KSBA marketed 53 tons of wool at slightly
lamb/wool to obtain premium prices:                                                           better prices than obtained from traders.
                                             System of quality based pricing introduced.      Farmers received a total of KGS 1.3 million in
                                                                                              cash.
                                                                                              Assistance in transportation of lambs from
                                                                                              rural areas to urban markets creates
                                                                                              competition with local traders, resulting in
                                                                                              better prices in rural areas
                                                                                              Farmers selling greasy wool received from
                                                                                              KSBA 46% of the price paid by the
                                                                                              processing industry for clean and graded
                                                                                              wool.


4. Improve management and sustainability of System of cost effective pasture monitoring       All pastures nation wide have been surveyed
range pastures and fodder:                   established.                                     using a total of 303 observation points
                                                                                              Over 9,000 Ha of rangelands surveyed and
   Pasture surveyed                          Fodder production and preservation adopted mapped
                                             by 50% of producers.                             7 ayl okmotu have developed and adopted
                                                                                              sustainable grazing practices
                                                                                              National level pasture surveying and
    Local authority trained                                                                   monitoring network established for regular
                                                                                              monitoring of pastures
                                                                                              Law on pasture monitoring passed; and
                                                                                              methodology for rational utilization of
                                                                                              pastures through lease arrangements
                                                                                              established and piloted (11 pilots)
                                                                                              Over 670 farmers have visited the pasture
                                                                                              demonstration plots for learning purposes.



5. Improved animal health services                                                            There are 458 private veterinarians and 796
                                                                                              veterinary technicians as providers of animal
   Private veterinary practices established  Completion of pilot in veterinary privatization. health services in the project regions
                                                                                              486 veterinarians trained
                                             507,892 animals vaccinated in 2002
   Brucellosis control                       254,801 animals tested in 2001                   The percentage of animals that tested
                                                                                              positive for brucellosis one year after the
                                                                                              vaccination has declined by 45%
                                                                                              Incidence of new infections among humans
                                                                                              has decreased by 30% in project areas
                                             Increased public awareness about the health
                                             risks associated with the zoonotic disease.      550 farmers have been familiarized with the
                                                                                              health risks associated with the zoonotic
                                             Pilot trials in reducing brucellosis completed.  disease

                                                                                              Law on private veterinary practice adopted

1End of project




                                                                 - 27 -

SDP OUTPUTS IN NUMBERS
                                  Activities                                     Total at Closing

Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association (KSBA)
Number of Sheep Producers' Groups (SPG) established                                    117
Number of extended families that are SGP members                                       1170
Volume of KSBA's wool business (annual turnover, tons)                                  53
Number of farmer who sold wool to KSBA                                                 257
Number of farmers who purchased supplies through KSBA                                  257
Number of farmers who attended KSBA exhibitions                                       1,038
Number of farmers who received training from KSBA                                     2,410
Number of farmers who received training from other trainers (RADS)                     483
Number of contract farmers/herders (extension purposes)                                 6

Sheep Breeding Activities
Number of new pure bred Merino born and raised in KG                                  1,824
Number of new cross bred Merino born and raised in KG                               116,500
Number of farmers that directly use new Merino genetics                                208
Number of farmers that indirectly use new Merino genetics                             1,040
Average wool yield of Merino crossbred, kg                                             4.72

Animal Health
Number of pilot rayons for vaccination                                                  8
Percentage of animals that tested positive before vaccination                     2.5% (2001)
Percentage of animals that tested positive one year after vaccination             1.4% (2002)
Number of new infection among people in test area before vaccination of sheep      431 (2001)
Number of new infection among people in test area after vaccination of sheep       307 (2002)
Number of private veterinarians in the project rayons                                  229
Number of contracts with private veterinarians to carry out vaccination                 73
Total number of private veterinary doctors and technicians nation-wide                1,254
Number of vets who participated in training courses                                    486
Number of farmers that watched videos on zoonotic diseases                             550
Number of training courses (on diseases) provided to veterinarians                      43

Rangelands
Total area of rangeland surveyed (thousand ha)                                        9,122
Number of observation points                                                           303
Number of Pasture Institute staff with experience in rangeland monitoring               8
Area of hillside pastures withdrawn from use (ha)                                   340,000
Number of maps produced and distributed (oblast, rayon, farm-level)                    210
Number of lab analysis performed (samples analyzed)                                   1,602
Number of recommendations on improved use of rangelands prepared and                   200
disseminated
Number of Ayl Okmotu that have developed sustainable grazing plans                      7
Number of land distribution pilots                                                      11
Land distributed under pilot projects (ha)                                          125,032
Number of rangeland lease contracts between the farmers and Ayl Okmotu                  88
Total area distributed through lease arrangements (thousand ha)                       1,451
Number of farmers and specialists trained (rangeland monitoring)                      1,287

Pasture improvement
Number of farmers surveyed about hay-making                                            120
Number of farmers that visited demonstration plots                                     672
Number of farmers adopting use of new seeds (pilot, started in 2001)                    10



                                                             - 28 -

Number of farmers who used rotational grazing (pilot, started in 2001)            18
Number of farmers that adapt new harvesting/storage methods (pilot, started in    11
2001)




                                                            - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)




Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal Estimate after                               Percantage of Estimate after
                                         Restructuring        Actual/Latest Estimate            Restructuring
            Component                IDA     IFAD    Govt      IDA     IFAD     Govt        IDA     IFAD      Govt


Sheep Private Enterprise Dev.        0.80    1.26     0.11     0.68    1.01      0.07       85%      80%       64%
Dev. of Livestock Suport Services    2.43    1.83     0.24     2.03    1.12      0.20       86%      61%       83%
Sheep Breeding Research Support      3.54    0.00     0.19     3.13    0.00      0.19       88%      0%       100%

Total                                  6.77    3.09     0.54     5.84    2.13      0.46       86%      69%       85%

Project Financing by Source, US$ million, as a% of Total Project Financing
                                  IDA            IFAD         Government        Total Project Financing
Foreseen in SAR                   11.58           3.5              1.7                    16.78
% of total project cost           69%             21%             10%                     100%


Budget after restructuring*       9.04            3.5              0.7                    13.24
% of total project cost after
restructuring                     68%             27%              5%                     100%


As of February 2003               5.84            2.13             0.46                   8.43
% of total project cost           69%             26%              5%                     100%
* Credit Agreement IDA #2859-KG : SDR2.0 million (US$2.54 million equivalent) were cancelled


Counterpart Funding

                                    Government                                                 Amount
               WB Appraisal          Allocation      Amount Received        KGS/US$           Received
Year        Estimate (thous US$)     (thous US$)         (KGS mil)       Exchange rate       (thous US$)
1996                190.0                                   0.25               13.2             19.0
1997                120.0               189.0               0.50               17.2             29.0
1998                140.0               561.0               2.69               18.9             142.0
1999                440.0               466.0               5.32               42.2             126.0
2000                 81.0               248.0               2.40               47.1             51.0
2001                 62.0               120.0               0.80               47.9             16.0
2002                 44.0                58.0               2.70               46.5             67.0
Total               1,077.0            1,642.0              14.66                               450.0




                                                 - 30 -

   Procurement Arrangements

                                         ICB           LIB            IS            NS             DC
A. Loan Agreement Provisions,            5.66          -            0.64          0.77             -
US$ million
B. Actual bids carried out:
  Number of bids                           4            2             6             20             22
  Number of contracts                      4            1             7             19             22
  Total amount, US$ million              0.88         1.39          0.14          0.13            0.19
Note: ICB  International Competitive Bidding, LIB  Limited International Bidding, IS  International Shopping, DC
 Direct Contracting




                                                       - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

SAR approach At appraisal, assumptions of the impact of the project investments were highly optimistic
and expected that the project would benefit 14,000 households grouped in 3,600 farm units that would
receive an estimated USD 25 million additional net income annually. The cost and benefits derived from
gross margin calculations of large flocks (1,000- 2,000 animals), extrapolated over an expected wool sheep
flock size of 5 million by project completion. The assumptions were no longer valid, in terms of flocks size
(average < 100), national wool sheep flock (about 1.5 million) and wool price. The SAR mentions an ERR
of 57%, which, however, is difficult to match with the calculations in the accompanying table (below). The
SAR indeed mention private and public cost but the ERR appears to relate to the wool production and
marketing alone, not to the total project.

ICR approach                            The economic analysis was carried out individually for each project component.
The IRR is largely based on investments with a commercial character i.e. wool and meat marketing,
breeding and pasture research, and does not include the less tangible social and environmental benefits. The
methodology assumed a project life of                                       20 years and used the actual investments costs, including
procurement and installation of equipment and training but excluding the TA in view of the difficulty in
allocation (especially of the PIU support) and of the excessive size of the TA (see Annex 9). Including the
international TA reduces the overall project IRR to 13% and ERR to 14.6%. The residual value of the
fixed assets is estimated at 5% and is not included in the IRR/NPV calculations due to the insignificance of
the amount. Revenues are derived from sales generated during the actual operation of the projected values
for the future based on extrapolation the cost and benefits during the last 4 years of the project. Income
taxes are not calculated in view of the tax holiday of farms, but the 18% VAT tax in included in the
calculation.

Economic pricing                        The Kyrgyz Republic is remote from major international markets. High transport
costs, and exposure to official and unofficial road-, police - and custom checks in neighboring countries
increases costs of reaching international markets, but also protects local markets. Economic price
calculations (available on file) included a 8 % trade risk and still a 10% quality discount. Financial wool
prices moved from 50% of economic prices to 75% at the end of the project. Meat prices were generally at
par with economical prices. The overall benefits, as assumed at appraisal, were influenced by the decline in
international commodity prices till 2000 (see below). International price assumptions made at appraisal
were generally 20 -25% lower during project implementation.



                      World Commodity Prices ($/kg; Data: World Bank)


           6

           5
                                                                                                         w o o l ( 5 6 )

                                                                                                         l a m b
           4                                                                                             b e e f
                                                                                                         c o t t o n

           3                                                                                             w o o l ( 6 4 )

    US$/kg                                                                                               ( h a r d ) w h e a t


           2

           1

           0
               1 9 9 5  1 9 9 6  1 9 9 7  1 9 9 8  1 9 9 9  2 0 0 0  2 0 0 1  2 0 0 2    2 0 0 3
                                                                                      ( 1 s t q r t )


Note: In 1998, the price of wool grade 56 was replaced by finer wool grade 64 (20-22 micron thickness). Most of
the improved wool is at the between the "56" and "64" level (i.e. between 22 and 27 microns)



                                                                                            - 32 -

The rate of return calculation included all investment costs of the particular component, including training,
start-up and investment of a public good character. Consequently the pilot activities show a limited rate of
return as full costs, including those made before restructuring, are included, as well as the public good
aspects. The modest rates of return also include taxes. In addition to the international price movements, the
"Russian crisis" in 1998 seriously affected the exchange rate as well as market outlook for Kyrgyz products.

              Activity                 Character         ERR          FRR       ERR (ICR)       NPV
                                            of       (Appraisal)      (ICR)                     (ICR)
                                       Investment                                              (US$ mil)
  Wool improvement and               Full component                   21.3%        23.6%        46.71
  marketing
  Livestock market access and input Full component                    13.7%        13.7%         2.87
 supply
  Forage and pasture improvement    Pilot                             6.5%          6.5%         0.39
  Animal health                     Pilot                             -4.7%        -4.7%         -0.32
  Pasture monitoring                 Full component                   18.2%        18.2%         5.06
  Total Investment in Components                         57%          16.7%        18.4%        54.14
  Total Project Cost (incl.                                           13.0%        14.6%        50.76
  International TA)

Unit costs cooperative development
The investment in training, group formation and extension during 2000-2002 was US$ 37,440 for the KSBA
and US$ 131,040 by others. The total investment per extended family was US$ 153 and per farm family
US$30.




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Sept-Oct 1993           11     TTL; Agr Strategy (1);
                                             Irrigation (2); Agricultural
                                             Economist (1); Ag. Policy (1);
                                             Animal Health (1); Sheep
                                             Production (1); Wool Specialist
                                             (1); Meat Industry (1); Pasture
                                             Management (1)
              May-Jun 1994              7    TTL; Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Sheep Production (1); Wool
                                             Specialist (1); Extension (1);
                                             Research (1); Agricultural
                                             Economist (1)
              Jun-Jul 1994              1    TTL
              Aug 1994                  3    Wool (1); Sheep Production (1);
                                             Agricultural Economist (1)
              Nov-Dec 1994              4    TTL; Sheep Production (1);
                                             Wool (1); Operations Analyst (1)
              Mar-Apr 1995              5    TTL; Animal Health Specialist
                                             (1); Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Sheep Production (1); Rangeland
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May-Jun 1995              4    TTL; Sheep Production (1);
              (Appraisal)                    Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Wool Mrkt. and Quality (1)
              Sept 1995                 5    Negotiation Leader (1); Legal
              (Negotiations)                 Counsel (1); Disbursement (1);
                                             Procurement (1); Economist (1)
              April 1996                1    TTL
              (Additional               4    Negotiation Leader (1); Legal
              Negotiations )                 Counsel (1); Economist (1);
                                             Disbursement Analyst (1)

 Supervision

              Nov-Dec 1996              3    TTL; Launch Workshop Organ.          S               S
                                             (1); Procurement (1)
              Jun-Ju1 997               3    TTL; Operations Analyst (1);         S               S
                                             Inst. Specialist (1)
              Nov-Dec 1997              4    TTL; Operations Analyst (1);         S               S
                                             Sector Leader (1); Country Team
                                             Leader (1)
              Jun 1998                  3    TTL; Livestock Specialist (1);       S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
              Nov-Dec 1998              3    Livestock Specialist (1);            S               U



                                              - 34 -

                                           Economist (1); Operations (1)
               Feb 2000                4   TTL (1); PTL (1); Operations         S    S
                                           Officer (1); Sector Manager (1)
               Sept-Oct 2000           5   Operations Specialist (1);           S    S
                                           Sheep/Wool (1); PTL (1);
                                           Financial Specialist (1); TTL (1)
               Apr 2001                4   TTL (1); Operations Officer (1);     S    S
                                           IFAD Extension (1) Rangeland
                                           (1)
               Nov-Dec 2001            4   TTL; Operations Specialist (1);      S    S
                                           Financial Management (1);
                                           Procurement (1)
               Jun-Jul 2002            4   TTL; Operations Specialist (2);      S    S
                                           Financial Management (1)

 ICR
               Jan-Feb 2003           5     TTL; Operations Spec (1);           S    S
                                            Economist (1); Livestock/
                                            Extension (1); Rangeland
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                             BB-551.4; TF-494.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                        included above
  Supervision                                                       BB-545.8;
                                                                BBFAO-23.4;
                                                                      TF-11.1
  ICR                                                                BB-90.0
  Total                                                           BB-1,187.2
                                                             FAO&TF-529.3




                                            - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Staff Appraisal Report, April 23, 1996, Report No 14701-KG
 2. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, September 11, 1995
 3. Additional Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, February 23, 1996
 4. Credit Agreement IDA, October 1995 (amended April 5, 1996; January 3, 2001)
 5. Loan Agreement IFAD, October 26, 1995 (amended August 14, 2001)
 6. Sheep and Wool Improvement Project for the Kyrgyz Republic, Proposed Project Report by Hassall &
    Associates, June 1994
 7. The Program of Investment in Agriculture 1996-1998, MOAF, Bishkek, 1995
 8. Wool Grading, Testing and Marketing, SDP, Consultant's Report by Robert Stobart, June 1995
 9. SDP PIU Final Report, prepared by H. Ocakli, October 1998
10. The Sheep Product Marketing System - Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association, Seminar Material,
    October, 1998
11. Veterinary Practice Management, SDP, Final Report by NG Buck, GRM Int Pty, Australia, Dec 1998
12. Manual of Organizational, marketing, Financial, Legal and Administrative Procedures, SPG/KSBA
    Sheep Product Marketing System, March 1999
13. Mid-term Evaluation Mission Report, June 1999
14. Plan of Use of Imported Australian Merinos in Fine Sheep Breeding in Kyrgyzstan, Sub-component
    "Sheep Breeding Research", SDP, prepared by the Kyrgyz Livestock Research Institute, Bishkek, 1999
15. SDP Restructuring Review October 12 - 26, 1999, Proposals, Bishkek
16. National Sheep/Goat Breeding Policy of the KR - Proposal, MAWR, Bishkek, June 15, 2000
17. Agriculture and Agribusiness: Growth Opportunities and Obstacles, Kyrgyz Republic, June 30, 2002,
    PREM
18. WB Rural Development Strategy Revision, FAO Farming Systems Study, 2000
19. Social survey among sheep farmers to identify needs and requirements. Report by Regional Analysis
    Ltd. for MAWRPI, 2002
20. SDP Quarterly Progress Reports and Annual Reports prepared by the PIU
21. Technical Assistance Reports
22. Annual Work Plans and Budgets - SDP Implementation
23. SDP Monitoring and Evaluation Report, M-Vector, Bishkek, January 2003
24. Supervision Mission Aides Memoire and PSRs




                                                  - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. SDP Restructuring Results

Overall objectives:
(i) a well structured and effectively functioning farmer association (KSBA/SPGs) with a limited area coverage and
pilot experience in wool marketing and breeder services ready for expansion nationwide in a broad range of
activities (product marketing, input supply, breeder services etc.) and possibly later to other livestock sectors,
(ii) a functioning Department of Veterinary Services with proven capabilities in planning, coordinating,
monitoring and evaluating limited disease control campaigns for sheep using sub-contracted private veterinarians -
ready for expansion to national disease control campaigns for sheep and other livestock,
(iii) an effective wool sheep breeding program linked to an efficient and equitable system for distributing the
benefits of the program to sheep breeders and producers - ready to be expanded to include a sheep meat breed and
goats for cashmere, angora and milk, all underwritten by a National Breeding Policy designed and promoted by a
broad range of industry stakeholders,
(iv) a client oriented extension service operating outside the public sector and concentrating on promoting income
generating activities for small farmers including livestock producers.

Component        Previous                              Restructured
Private          Development of commercially           The main objective will be institutional/entrepreneurial development of
enterprise       focused farmer organization, that was KSBA and SPGs; KSBA as a multipurpose umbrella organization offers
development to be financially viable in 2 years        services of common interest to new communities/SPG's and function as
                                                       are characterized by common interest of member/farmers (marketing,
                                                       shared pasture use etc.). Commercial development is not the only and
                 Management by international           primary objective.
                                                       Project will provide limited budget support for small headquarters of
                 consultants with little local input.  KSBA and for local groups. New dynamic manager with modern
                                                       business skills will be recruited. Government and Bank will seek donor
                 Registration of 240 SPGs by 2000.     funded TA.
                                                       Initially approx. 90 SPG's, with common interests, will be registered,
                                                       and the staff trained in group management and business practices.
                                                       Training will be carried out in collaboration with RADS.
                                                       Savings because of reduced structure and staffing.
Livestock        Project will finance complete         Project will concentrate on pilots that support privatization, and develop
Support          vaccination program for all animals   stronger implementation and monitoring capability in DVS.
Services         in Issy Kul and Naryn Oblast. Project DVS ability to monitor the sheep disease status and to evaluate the
                 will finance vaccines production      effectiveness of disease control programs would continued to be
                 laboratory.                           strengthened. and to evaluate the effectiveness of disease control
                                                       programs
                                                       Savings: cost of vaccines (which are financed by the EU-Food Security
                                                       program) and lower need due to decline in animal numbers.
                 Sheep/wool advisors focus on wool     Livestock advisors should continue to work with RADS and KSBA to
                 and wool marketing                    develop the SPG network, but concentrate all their efforts on the
                                                       strengthening the existing SPGs. To assist in general livestock
                                                       extension, the project would consider establishing a small development
                                                       fund for field demonstration (contracted by RADS or others) to use in
                                                       promoting commercially - and or communally- oriented activities




                                                           - 39 -

Component Previous                              Restructured
Applied   Breeding activities concentrated      This activity would be broadened and deepened to include
Research  exclusively on wool production when preliminary breeding work on meat (the Kyrgyz black sheep in
          changing market conditions caused     particular) along with goats for fur (cashmere) wool (angora; felt )
          farmers to seek different goals.      and milk.

          A breeding vision was planned but     First a "Vision" for the sheep and goat industry need to be developed
          only executed for wool sheep; vision in a process that ensures broad stakeholder participation (in a
          was not shared with farmers and the   national workshop).
          public in general.
          Concentrated only on wool, despite    The Livestock Institute, rather than only a wool group, would then
          declining interest of farmers.        need to quickly prepare these programs explaining the rationale.
                                                MAWR livestock department will play greater role.
                                                Savings: Wool testing laboratory. Drastic decline in the number of
                                               wool sheep has changed the economic outlook. Independence and
                                               consequently acceptance by buyers and sellers is not guaranteed.
          Botanical pasture monitoring replaced Pasture surveying/mapping of last 2 oblasts will be completed, but
          the original remote sensing system    with different relationships.

                                                Gyprozem, in collaboration with pasture and social groups develop
                                                pilot program in pasture use, allocation and deferred grazing.

                                                Pasture Institute would be a series of simplified demonstration blocks
                                                on spring/autumn pastures to gauge the benefits of deferred grazing
                                                every third year. These would be conducted on sites within pasture
                                                already surveyed by GYPROZEM




                                                - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. Technical Assistance Provided Under the SDP

                         Total Amount of
                          the contract in Actually paid in  Actually paid
TA Provider by Activity        USD         USD (IDA)       in USD (IFAD) Total paid in USD
PIU                         1,200,000.00      976,075.03                        976,075.03
                    PIU                       976,075.03                        976,075.03

Animal Health
Pasture Monitoring          1,112,600.00      658,234.65      410,111.99       1,068,346.64
                   ATAS       517,300.00                      410,111.99        410,111.99
           Animal Health      224,300.00      231,932.75                        231,932.75
 Sheep Breeding Research      160,350.00      222,132.33                        222,132.33
       Pasture Monitoring     187,550.00      182,443.15                        182,443.15
               Lamp sum        23,100.00        21,726.42                         21,726.42

Private Sheep Breeder
Development                 1,502,848.90      551,242.95      533,400.99       1,084,643.94
   Kyrgyz Sheep Breeder's
              Association     651,478.40                      533,400.99        533,400.99
         Wool Testing and
   Information Centre and
      Wool Marketing and
          Quality Control     851,370.50      551,242.95                        551,242.95

Financial Adviser              15,522.50        15,522.50                         15,522.50

Total                       3,830,971.40     2,201,075.13     943,512.98       3,144,588.11




                                             - 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Overview of Pilot Activities


                 Project Component                       Expenditures (US$)
Pasture monitoring, evaluation and protection:
Pasture Basic Monitoring                                      39,601
Rapid Monitoring                                              28,151
Pilot Project and Pasture Rapid Monitoring
                                                              26,503
Pilot Project on multiline pasture use in two rayons          16,000
Pilot Project on digitizing maps                              11,022
Contract on pasture computer database creation                13,401
High mountain pasture leasing pilot                           15,692
Contract with GIS laboratory on maps digitalizing             5,018
Contract on training for Pasture leasing assignation          25,042
Total                                                        180,430


Controlled Graizing and fodder improvement:
Pilot "Grazing Plan Design"                                   27,677
Pilot Project "Local nurseries establishment"                 18,682
Pilot projects "Pasture water resources management"           70,292
Total                                                        116,651


Animal Health
Pilot program"Vaccination against Brucellosis"                21,758
Pilot awareness program on "Echinococcosis",                  8,070
"Psoroptosis"
Support for creation of oblast veterinary associations        1,011
Total                                                         30,839
Grand Total                                                  327,920




                                                   - 42 -

Additional Annex 11. Video and Printed Materials Prepared under the SDP


    Item                         Topic

Animal Health
    Documentary                  "Murrain and smallpox"
    Documentary                  "Psosroptosis and tuberculosis"
    Videoreels                   "Echinococcosis"
                                 "Brucellosis"
                                 "Rabies"
                                 "Murrain"
                                 "Smallpox"
                                 "Psoroptosis"
                                 "Tuberculosis"
    Booklets                     "Echinococcosis"
                                 "Brucellosis"
                                 "Rabies"
                                 "Murrain"
                                 "Smallpox"
                                 "Psoroptosis"
                                 "Tuberculosis"
    Brochures                    "Parasitic preparation"
                                 "Recommendation for the private veterinary structure
                                 establishment"

Sheep Breeding Research
    Book                         "New type of Fine-fleeced sheeps selection"

Pasture Monitoring and Evaluation
    Documentary                  "Pastures of Kyrgyz Republic"
    Booklets                     "Pastures of Kyrgyz Republic (Oblasts)"
                                  "The questions and answers for the subject "Pasture"
                                 " The plan for the types of activities combination"

Controlled Grazing and Fodder Improvement
    Documentary                  " The forage provision"
                                 "The winter pasture conditions"
    Videoreel                    " The forage provision"
    Books                        " The recommendations for the Forage provision"
                                 "The ways of the forage reserve improvement"
    Booklets                     "Component: Controlled grazing and Fodder Improvement"

General
    Documentary                  " New Outlines of Nomadic Life Style"




                                            - 43 -

Additional Annex 12. Training and Study Tours

                                                                                                 NO OF
                       TOPIC                            WHEN AND WHERE            DURATION      TRAINEES

   PROJECT BENEFICIARY TRAINING:

Provision of training in veterinary laboratory           10/10/1998-2/01/1999
techniques at the Victorian Institute of Animal Science    Brisbane, Australia      12 weeks       3
English Language Training                               Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic    370 hours     20
                                                           17/04/99-19/09/99
Training exercise in Animal Breeding                       Brisbane, Australia      22 weeks       2
                                                           20/11/-08/12/2000
SETYM International Inc.                                      Paris, France         2 weeks        1
                                                           01/11/-06/11/2001
Federal Fair "Russian Textiles"                             Moscow, Russia           6 days        2
General Session of the Office International Des            27/05/-01/06/2001
Epizooties                                                    Paris, France          6 days        2
Training course "Diagnostic and production of the          18/09/-15/10/2001
components for the Veterinary analysis"                     Vladimir, Russia        4 weeks        2
"Application of Immunofermentation analysis                10/12/-28/12/2001
(ELISA)"                                                   Bishkek, Kyrgystan       10 days        4
Training course on fodder improvement in the Eastern       09/06-17/07/ 2001
Agricultural Research Institute                             Ersurum, Turkey          9 days        2

International course on management and marketing           08/05/-05/06/2001
in small and medium dairy farming *                          Telaviv, Israel        4 weeks        1
                                                           15/09/-23/09/2002
19th Federal Fair of Textile and Light Industry             Moscow, Russia           9 days        1
China TCDC International Training Course on
Processing of Chinese and Western Style Meat               14/05/-02/07/2002
Products *                                                   Beijing, China         6 weeks        2
Virology training course in Moscow State Academy of 14/10/-07/11/2002     Moscow,
Veterinary Medicine and Biotechnology                            Russia             3 weeks        4

PMU STAFF TRAINING
The Regional Workshop on Financial Administration           1/06/-5/06/1998
of IFAD Loans and Grants                                    Kunming, China           5 days        2
                                                           17/10/-31/10/1999
Financial Management and Disbursement                      Washington, USA          2 weeks        1
Procurement management in World Bank financed              20/11/-08/12/2000
projects                                                      Turin, Italy          2 weeks        1
                                                          20/01/-26/01/ 2001,
Competitive Grant Program                                   Antalia, Turkey          6 days        5
Competitive Grant Programs - good practices for            13/11/-16/11/2001
Financial management and Procurement                        Baku, Azebaijan          4 days        2
                                                           10/09/-14/09/2002
Competitive Grant Program                                    Rovij, Croatia          4 days        1
Procurement, Financial management and                      13/05/-17/05/2002
Disbursement in World Bank financed projects              Almaty, Kazakhstan         5 days        2
* Financed by the receving country




                                                          - 44 -

Additional Annex 13. Status of Goods Received by Beneficiaries


Project Implementation Unit:

Type of goods                        Function                              Status

Goods financed by IDA
Transport vehicles                   4 wheel vehicles                      Used
Office equipment                     Computers, note book, server,         Used
                                     printers, copy machines, fax, , mini
                                     ATS, video equipment , furniture


Sheep Breeding Research:

Type of goods                        Function                              Status

Goods financed by IDA
Sheep merino                         Australian merino for improving the   Distributed to farmers
                                     quality of wool
Transport vehicles                   4 wheel vehicles                      Used
Office equipment                     Computers, printers, copy machines,   Used
                                     fax, furniture
Liquid nitrogen manufacturing plant  Freezing semen                        Operational, not fully used due to low
                                                                           demand
Dewar flask                          Storing liquid nitrogen               Used
Flock book                           Registering new breeds
Frozen semen                         Breed Improving                       Used
Works
Office Rehabilitation                Rehabilitation of Live Stock Breeding Rebuilt and using
                                    Institute laboratory
Consulting services
Technical assistance                 Application of the achievements in    Realized
                                    agriculture sector
Training                             Methodology of serological testing    Realized


Animal Health Services:

Type of goods                        Function                              Status

Goods financed by IDA
Brucellosis vaccine                  Vaccine for brucellosis prophylaxis   Used
Laboratory equipment ELIZA         Laboratory equipment and diagnostic   Operational and used
                                     kits for testing animal diseases.
Office equipment                     Computers, printers, copy machines    Used
Additional equipment                 Refrigerators, generators             Operational and used
Training materials                   Books, films, brochures               Demonstrated and distributed
Consulting services
Technical assistance                 Legislative regulations in veterinary Realized
Technical assistance                 Brucellosis prophylaxis,              Realized



                                                   - 45 -

                                       epidemiology, management in
                                       veterinary and diagnostic
Works
Office Rehabilitation                  Rehabilitation of Veterinary            Rebuilt and using
                                       laboratory


Pastures and Fodder Improvement:

Type of goods                          Function                                Status

Goods financed by IDA
Seeds                                  Improvement of varieties                Used
 Office equipment                      Computers, printers, copy machines,     Used
                                       scanners, note books, binoculars,
                                       video equipment, plotters, GPS
                                       satellite equipment, satellite receiver

 Transport vehicles                    4 wheel vehicles                        Used
Works
Fences                                 Installing of fences in selected sites  Installed and used
 Rehabilitation of pasture water pipes Rehabilitation of pasture water pipes   Rebuilt and using
                                       in four pilot sites
Goods financed by counterparts
Fences                                 Installing of fences                    Installed and used


KSBA:

Type of goods                          Function                                Status

Goods financed by counterparts
(IFAD)
Transport vehicles                     4 wheel vehicles, tracks                Used
 Office equipment                      Computers, printers, copy machines,     Used
                                       fax, furniture, video equipment,
                                       scanners
 Additional equipment                  Scales, transformer, refrigerators,     Used
                                       heaters
 Veterinary preparation                Precautions and vaccination             Used
 Wool testing mini laboratory          Mobile wool testing laboratory          Operational and used
Works
Design, site preparation/repair of     Rehabilitation of KSBA building         Rebuilt and using
building
 Design, site preparation/repair of    Rehabilitation of local co-operatives   Rebuilt and using
building                               and selection centers
Consulting services
Technical assistance                   Wool Marketing and Quality control      Realized
Technical assistance                   Development of private sheep            Realized
                                       breeding farms




                                                     - 46 -

Technical and Management Advisory Services:

Type of goods                   Function                            Status

Goods financed by counterparts
(IFAD)
Transport vehicles              Conducting consulting services      Used
Office equipment                Computers, printers, copy machines, Used
                                furniture
Consulting services
Technical assistance            Wool Marketing and Quality control  Realized




                                           - 47 -

- 48 -

