Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2859 KG
                   Development Credit Agreement
                    (Sheep Development Project)
                              between
                          KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 13, 1996
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2859 KG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1996, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS:  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing part
of the Project; and
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $3.5 million  to assist in financing the Project on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement  (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and IFAD; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General
Page  2
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of  Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (i) on account of expendi-
            tures in the territories of any country which is not a member
            of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied
            from, such territories; or (ii) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
            payment or import to the knowledge of the Bank is prohibited
            by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
            under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a )  "MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "Livestock Institute" means the livestock institute within MAF;
      (c)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established
on behalf of the Borrower by the PIU Manager;
      (d)   "PIU Manager" means a consulting firm satisfactory to the
Association selected pursuant to the provisions of Section II.1 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purpose of establishing and managing
the PIU;
      (e)   "PIU Management Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by the Borrower and the selected consulting firm according to the
provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Project Account" means the account to be opened pursuant to
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "Som" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in U.S. Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on  June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15,
2006 and ending December 15, 2030. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on December 15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth per
cent (1 1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two and one-half percent (2 1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, sub-
sequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of
the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  4
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                   (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                   Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                   with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                   of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                   as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                   reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                   records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
Page  5
                   and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                   records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                   the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                   year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                   support the related withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
       (a)  subject to subparagraph (b) to this paragraph:
            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
                  the IFAD Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of
                  the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                  of the IFAD Loan Agreement; or
            (ii)  the IFAD Loan shall have become due and payable prior
                  to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event specified, namely that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur,
subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;
      (b)   the PIU Management Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the PIU Manager in
accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account in a local
commercial bank and made an initial deposit of the amount in Som
equivalent to $25,000 into such account.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
Page  6
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Ministry of Finance
            Erkindik Boulevard, 58
            Bishkek 720874
            Kyrgyz Republic
                                           Telex:
                                                  245169 ASKAR KH
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                   By /s/Almas Chukin
                                            Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                       Acting Regional Vice President
                                              Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit              % of
                               Allocated        Expenditures
                             (Expressed in          to be
      Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
Page  7
 (1)  Goods
      (a) Under all parts of   3,500,000        100% of foreign
          the Project, except                   expenditures, 100% of
          Part B.2 (iii)                        local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost) and
      (b) Under Part B.2 (iii)   300,000        90% of local expen-
          of the Project                        ditures for items
                                                procured locally
(2)   Works                      400,000        90%
(3)   Consulting Services      1,480,000        100%
(4)   Training                   600,000        100%
(5)   Incremental operating      800,000        80% of expenditures
      costs                                     incurred up to 200,000
                                                SDR equivalent and
                                                50% thereafter
(6)   Unallocated                720,000
                                ________
      TOTAL                    7,800,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating cost" means cost incurred on
account of the Project relating to vehicle and equipment maintenance and
operation, office supplies, utilities and salaries and allowances for
local staff.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of Category (1) (b) for expenditures relating to
Part B.2 (iii) of the Project, until the Borrower has provided to the
Association a satisfactory feasibility study relating to the local
production of veterinary vaccines.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent in respect of expenditures
under Categories (1), (2), (4) and (5) for expenditures under contracts
for consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent in respect of
expenditures under Category (3); and for expenditures under contracts for
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent in respect of
expenditures under Category (3).
                             SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the profit-
ability and efficiency of sheep and wool farming; (b) privatize the
provision of several services to farmers, including wool marketing and
veterinary services; and (c) improve the management and conservation of
natural grazing resources by farmers.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:     Sheep and Wool Private Enterprise Development
1.    Assistance for the establishment and operation of sheep producers'
associations through the provision of equipment, vehicles, and
organizational, technical, managerial and training support therefor: (i)
at the village level; (ii) at the regional ("rayon" or "oblast") level;
and (iii) at the national level.
2.    Assistance for the establishment and operation of a national wool
marketing center in Bishkek, construction and rehabilitation of regional
wool stores and facilities needed for such center, and provision of
equipment and managerial support therefor.
3.    Carrying out of wool testings and setting up of a national wool
testing laboratory at a location, with facilities and equipment, accept-
able to the Association.
Part B:     Development of Livestock Support Services
1.    Provision of: (i) agricultural training and advisory services to
livestock farmers in critical areas of sheep production covering husbandry
practices, sheep nutrition and health, wool shearing, preparation and
quality control, and farm management; and  (ii) assistance for the
establishment and operation of regional offices needed for agricultural
training and advisory services in all regions through training of
extension staff.
2.    (i) Strengthening of animal health services to monitor, diagnose
and control animal diseases (including brucellosis), through provision
of vaccines, drugs and equipment; (ii) support for the establishment of
private veterinary services through training of private veterinarians
and their participation, on a contractual basis, in the activities to be
carried out under sub-paragraph 2 (i) above; and (iii) support for the
local production of veterinary vaccines.
3.    Support for the establishment and operation of the PIU.
Part C:     Sheep Breeding Research Support
      Improving the breeding and selection of an appropriate dual purpose
sheep breed to optimize the production of lamb and wool, including
promoting the importation of new genetic material (semen), supporting
pasture and fodder research to improve quality and availability, and
upgrading the Livestock Institute capacity to analyze and monitor
nutritional value of pastures and fodder.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by  December 31, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Page  9
this Part B:
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
            To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
            grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
            $200,000 or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestic contractors
            The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
            and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in
            the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the Borrower shall use the
Standard Bidding Documents, Procurement of Works, National Competitive
Bidding (Small Works), issued by the Bank in September 1995 with minimum
changes, acceptable to the Bank, as necessary.
2.    International  or National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
      Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount no to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from
three (3) qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the work, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete
the contract successfully.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and the first two contracts for works,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature; as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for
the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent
or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall cause the PIU Manager to manage the Project
execution activities in accordance with the PIU Management Agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, inter alia,
provisions in respect of staffing of the PIU with qualified individuals
in sufficient number, and the management responsibilities to be carried
out in accordance with a project operational manual; such manual to be
attached to the PIU Management Agreement and to constitute an integral
part thereof.
2.    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PIU Management
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the PIU Management Agreement or any provision
thereof.
3.    The Borrower shall maintain the Project Account during the execution
of the Project and deposit, semiannually, an amount in Som equivalent to
$25,000 into such account.
4.    (a)   The Borrower shall undertake all necessary measures for the
timely establishment of the village sheep producers' associations,
regional sheep producers' associations and the national sheep producers'
association under Part A.1 of the Project, and, promptly upon the
establishment of any such association, enter into subsidiary agreements
with any such association, providing, inter alia, for the making available
of the proceeds of the credit disbursed from the Credit for the benefit of
any such association in respect of:  (i) operating expenses, technical
assistance and training on a grant basis during the first year of
operation; and (ii) civil works, goods and operating cost during the
second and all following years of operation of any such association, as
a loan on a full cost recovery basis to be denominated in Som, repayable
over no more than three years following a grace period of no more than
two years and the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
Page  11
      (b)   In carrying out the rehabilitation of the regional wool stores
pursuant to Part A.2 of the Project, and before such rehabilitation begins,
the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that such
regional wool stores be donated or leased to the regional sheep producers'
associations.
5.    The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that:
      (a)   sheep producers' associations shall be granted, on a leasing
basis, grazing rights without prejudice to other users of pastures,
whether individually or collectively organized;
      (b)   the grazing rights leased by the Borrower to sheep producers'
associations and other users shall be for land management units large
enough to support sustainable grazing systems in respect of the respective
size of the sheep management unit; and
      (c)   the lease contracts and administrative acts relating to the
granting of grazing rights shall include adequate provisions stipulating
grazing regulations and practices designed to establish good pasture
management practices, and shall be duly implemented.
 6.   By December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall transfer the ownership and
management of the wool testing facility referred to in Part A.3 of the
Project to the Livestock Institute.
7.    In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall take
all necessary measures to ensure that the national wool marketing center
in Bishkek shall charge a fee that will enable it to recover the full
costs for such services.
8.    In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project and before initiation of
any agricultural training and provision of advisory services in any given
oblast, the Borrower shall appoint a suitably qualified woman within the
oblast agricultural administration to advise on issues pertaining to
women's participation in Project activities.
9.    During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall not change
the breeding stock or the ownership of the state farms participating in
the Project's sheep breeding program without the prior approval of the
Association.
10.   (a)   By August 31 of each year during the execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause the PIU to:
            (i)    carry out a review of the Project execution activities
                   carried out during the preceding 12 month period;
            (ii)   identify any problems relating to Project execution or
                   areas in which the Project execution could or should be
                   improved to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
                   Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
            (iii)  recommend specific measures to remedy the problems
                   identified under subparagraph (ii) above, if any, to
                   enhance efficiency in the carrying out of the Project;
            (iv)   prepare a detailed work program and budget for the
                   activities to be carried out under the Project during
                   the following calendar year, taking into consideration
                   the recommendation referred to under subparagraph
                   (iii) of this paragraph, if any; and
            (v)    prepare a report covering items (i) through (iii)
                   above as applicable, and submit such report and the
                   detailed work program and budget to the Association
                   for review.
      (b)   By October 31 of each year during the execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall finalize the work program and budget for the next
calendar year, both to be acceptable to the Association.
Page  12
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$200,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                   shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                   into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                   Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                   and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                   this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                   of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
                   the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                   been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Page  13
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
