c.-5
Report No. 1517a-EGT
Appraisal of a Regional                                                    FILE COPY
Electrification Project Egypt
May 24, 1977
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                             PORTH
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the pertormance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November, 1976)
Currency Unit                 =  Egyptian Pound (LE)
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE 1)    =  US$2.56
Parallel Market Rate*
LE 1 (or 100 milliemes)    =  US$1.50
LE 1,000                    =  US$1500
LE 1,000,000                =  US$1.5 million
LE 0.67                     =  US$1.00
*Unless otherwise indicated all conversions of foreign currencies to
Egyptian Pounds in this report are based on the Parallel Market Rate
of Exchange.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilowatt (kW)               =  1,000 watts (10 3W)
1 Megawatt (MW)               =  1,000 kilowatts (103kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)         =  1,000 watt hours (103Wh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)         =  1,000,000 kWh (104kWh)
1 kilometer (km)              =  1,000 meters (103 m)
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)       =  1,000 volt amperes (103VA)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)       =  1,000 kilovolt amperes (103 kVA)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MEE       -  Ministry of Electricity and Energy
GEEC      -  General  Egyptian Electricity Corporation
REA       -  Rural Electrification Authority
S & P     -  Sanderson and Porter, Inc.
EEA       -  Egyptian Electricity Authority
CAO       -  Central Auditing Organization
EdF       -  Electricite de France
CONSULTAMNTS MENTIONED IN THE REPORT
Sanderson & Porter, Inc. (US), UNDP Power Sector Survey (EEA)
Electricite de France (France), Tariff Studies (EEA)
Lahmayer International, Salzgitter Consult and Deutsche
Project Union, (Germany); and Harza Engineering Co. (US),
Qattara Project (EEA)
Harza Engineering Co. (US), Rehabilitation and Expansion
of Power Distribution Systems in Cairo, Alexandria and
two other cities (EEA)
Harza Engineering Co. (US), Consultants for Regional Electrifi-
cation Project (REA)
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



APPRAISAL OF                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION *.***.*................****.*...................        1
II.   THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR .....* * *     *** *.......... . . . . . . .  2
A.   The Country and the Economy          ...................       2
B.   Power and Energy Resources           ....................      3
C.   The Power Sector ... 0............................             4
D.   The Development Program   .......................             10
III.   THE PROJECT .........          .      ...........                   11
A.   Objectives .......       .............................        11
B.   Description                          ........,,12
C.   Status of Engineering          .........................      12
D.   Cost Estimates ... ......... ........   ..........            14
E*   Financing                           ..........,,14
F.   Implementation ..................                             15
G.   Procurement and Disbursement          ..................      16
H.   Environmental Impact          ..........................      17
IV.   THE PROJECT ENTITY             .......................              17
A.   Background .1.........................  ......                17
B.   Organization and Management ....................              18
Co   Operations ..............................18
V.   FINANCE ..999 *9...............0 ..9......                          19
A.   Past Performance and Present Position *........               19
B.   Financing Plan ..................  .                          21
C.   Future PerforMance ...        .........................       22
D.   Accounts and Audit ......        ......................       24
E.   Insurance ............................. ..              ,    25
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION        ..******...*.*...........         25
A.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries oeo,sooo.s.e.                 25
B.   Economic Evaluation ...........................               26
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............                28
This report was prepared by Messrs. Arturo Roa (Engineer).and Peter A.
Cordukes (Financial Analyst).
I This documet has a resutried distrlbution and may be sW by r,cipints only in the performsnce
of their odlIe duties. In oewatts may not otherwise be diselod without World lnk suthorlatlon.



Table of Contents (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Summary of Findings - Power Sector Survey
2. Organization Chart - Ministry of Electricity and Energy
3. Organization Chart - Egyptian Electricity Authority
4. Summary of Law Establishing EEA
5. Training
6. Tariffs
7.  Installed and Available Generating Capacity and Peak Demand (1976-1985)
8. Available Generation (1976-1985)
9. Project Daily and Annual Energy Consumption, Peak and Load Factors
for the Year 1975-2000
10. Comparisons of Forecasts of Energy and Maximum Demand
11. Large Industrial Electrical Loads in Egypt, 1974-1985
12. Generation and Sales, 1974-1985
13. The National Rural Electrification Plan
14. Development Program Costs, 1976-1980
15. Terms of Reference for Consulting Services for the Project
16. Project Cost Estimate
17. Monitoring Indicators
18. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
19. Organization Chart - Rural Electrification Authority
20. Functions of REA's Departments
21. Income Statements for the Years Ending December 31, 1973-1980
22. Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1973-1980
23. Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds 1976-1980
24. Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
25. Project Load Forecast
26. Comparison of Supply Alternatives
27. Internal Economic Rate of Return
MAP
IBRD 12674



APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
SUMMARY
i.        This report appraises a Regional Electrification Project for the
Government of Egypt. The Project, covering about 18% of the Rural Electri-
fication Authority's (REA) 1976-80 Five Year Program, consists of approxi-
mately 3,400 km of 11-kV distribution lines and related equipment, 230 MVA of
substation and distribution transformer capacity and 100 km of 66-kV and 33-kV
subtransmission lines, training and consulting services. The facilities would
be located in about 32 zones in Upper and Lower Egypt. The Project is esti-
mated to cost about US$70.6 million of which about US$50 million (71%) would
be for foreign costs.
ii.       A Bank loan of US$48 million is proposed to the Egyptian Electricity
Authority (EEA) to cover 96% of the foreign costs of the Project. It would be
made available to REA under a subsidiary agreement except for the portion to
be retained by EEA for consulting services and training. The remaining costs
would be financed by the Government and EEA. Execution of the subsidiary
agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness, and the Government
agreed as a further condition of loan effectiveness to establish a special
fund for the Project to ensure that local counterpart funds will be available
when needed.
iii.      This loan would be the Bank's first power loan to Egypt.  In May
1976, consultants (Sanderson and Porter Inc., S & P) commenced a UNDP financed
"Power Sector Survey" for the EEA under Bank supervision. A diagnostic phase
report issued in November 1976 contained a number of recommendations aimed to
increase EEA's efficiency and help meet Egypt's future power needs. EEA has
directed S & P to assist in the implementation of the report's recommendations
and agreed to engage financial consultants to assist with implementation of
the recommendations on financial administration and accounting systems.
iv.       The Project would improve and expand electric power distribution
to about 6 million people in urban centers and villages outside Cairo and
Alexandria. During appraisal 23 of the 32 zones were identified and the
remaining zones were selected during negotiations. The data on the represen-
tative zones which was obtained during appraisal has been used to prepare the
Project cost estimates and for evaluation of the benefits. REA has selected
consultants for the Project (Harza Engineering, US), to review the rural zones
for consideration of construction priority in accordance with criteria agreed
with the Bank, and subsequently for detailed design and construction supervi-
sion. These same consultants are currently reviewing design and construction
standards for EEA under a USAID financed contract. The Project would be
constructed in the period 1978-80 by the Ministry of Electricity and Energy's
three construction companies or by private local contractors under REA's
supervision. REA has established a Project unit and appointed suitable staff.



- ii -
v.        The Project consultant is expected to develop detailed construc-
tion schedules which REA agreed to review periodically with the Bank in
connection with the reporting requirements for the Project. In addition,
the Bank obtained EEA and REA's agreement to implement systems to monitor
the performance of the EEA system and the National Rural Electrification
Plan.
vi.       Disbursement would be for the c.i.f. cost of imported items and
related services and for the ex-factory costs of items manufactured locally,
and for the foreign exchange costs of consultants hired outside Egypt and
70% of expenditures for consultants hired locally. Contracts for equipment
and materials would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding consistent with Bank Group Guidelines for procurement, except that
contracts totalling not more than US$1.0 million for specialty items may
be awarded after international shopping. Retroactive financing of expendi-
tures for consultants' services up to $150,000 would be permitted.
vii.      The Borrower, EEA, established as a Government-owned authority in
early 1976, replacing the General Egyptian Electricity Corporation is respon-
sible for operation and maintenance of the sector facilities. It is over-
staffed and its training facilities are not being fully utilized. Accordingly,
a training program consisting of provision of 9 man years of technical assis-
tance, accommodation units and training materials would be financed from the
loan to strengthen EEA's training activities.
viii.     Load growth of the EEA system averaged 17%/a during 1974-76 and it
is estimated at 13%/a in 1976-80. This growth is expected to be met from
existing hydro plant at Aswan, existing thermal plant mostly in the Delta and
2100 MW of thermal generating capacity planned or under construction through
1982. Distribution facilities in most of Egypt are run-down and overloaded.
A USAID financed distribution rehabilitation program is already underway in
the Canal Zone, Cairo and Alexandria, and the REA program commenced in 1971
covers about 120 urban centers, 4,000 villages and 25,000 hamlets in Lower
and Upper Egypt.
ix.       Neither EEA nor its predecessor GEEC has earned a profit since 1972
and its financial performance is distorted by previous years adjustments, in-
complete valuation of fixed assets and problems identified by the auditor's
reports which have not been corrected. The financial consultants to be engaged
as part of the Project are expected to help EEA overcome some of these problems.
EEA's 1977-80 investment program, which will require about LE 921 million
(US$1.4 billion), is expected to be financed 26% from internal sources, 26%
from contributions and grants and 48% from borrowing. EEA's financial fore-
casts show it could achieve a 9% rate of return by 1979, as it agreed to do
with USAID, if it increased electricity tariffs by about 50% above present
levels. EEA agreed to submit to the Bank an acceptable plan or proposals for
tariff increases, or other measures, to achieve the 9% return commencing 1979
and a formula for revaluation of its fixed assets not later than June 30, 1978.
Thereafter, EEA agreed to submit to the Bank each year a suitable financial
plan for achieving the 9% rate of return in the following year. Although a 9%
rate of return was agreed to be a reasonable target for EEA, it may be diffi-
cult to achieve in 1979. However, the plan to be submitted at the end of 1978



- iii -
would afford an opportunity for the Bank to review with EEA this target for
1979. EEA also agreed to a tariff study to be financed under the loan, using
consultants, to formulate an appropriate tariff structure and rates. To
ensure EEA's debt to equity ratio continues to improve and that borrowing does
not exceed prudent levels, EEA agreed to obtain the Bank's consent to any
borrowing it plans to undertake whenever its internal cash generation would
not be sufficient to cover its debt service at least 1-1/2 times in any future
year. EEA also agreed to revalue its foreign debts at the end of each year in
accordance with the current rates of exchange. With respect to EEA's overdue
electricity accounts, the Government agreed to take all measures on its part
to enable EEA to reduce its accounts receivable to not more than the equivalent
of 6 months sales by March 31, 1978, and not more than 3 months sales by
December 31, 1978.
x.        The Project would add the needed system reinforcements to restore
adequate service and allow normal load growth. It would also provide exten-
sions to eliminate a large backlog of long-waiting service requests. Through
electrification, the Government seeks to help correct the imbalance in living
conditions between Cairo and Alexandria and the smaller urban centers and
rural areas. The Project is the least-cost means of meeting supply to the
urban centers and villages by comparison with the alternative of isolated
diesel units. Large benefits are possible, due to the fuel savings, since
by 1980 the incremental fuel of the central system will be associated gar,
which is presently flared. The internal economic return on the Project is
estimated to be at least 10.2% comprised of 12.6% for the urban centers and
4.2% for the rural zones. These returns represent minimum values since they
do not take account of unquantifiable benefits expected to be obtairted from
the Project.
xi.       Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, sudbject to
the conditions of effectiveness, the Project is suitable for a Barnk loan of
US$48 million to EEA. The standard terms for Bank loans to Egypt of 20 years
including 4-1/2 years grace are appropriate.






APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Egypt has requested the Bank to help finance a
portion of its 1976-80 rural electrification program. The program involves
the upgrading and extension of supply to about 2,000 villages and about 36
urban centers throughout Egypt. It would complete a plan formulated in 1971
by the Rural Electrification Authority (REA) estimated in 1975 to cost a
total of about LE 300 million (US$450 million equivalent).
1.02      The proposed loan of US$48 million, which would be the Bank's first
power loan to Egypt, would finance part of the 1978-80 portion of REA's pro-
gram. The Project, which would consist of about 3,500 km of distribution
lines and related facilities, is estimated to cost about US$70.6 million of
which about US$50 million (71%) would be for foreign costs. The proposed
loan would meet the foreign cost of equipment and materials, studies and
consultant services. It would be made to the Egyptian Electricity Authority
(EEA) who would retain a portion for financial services, a tariff study,
a review of safety and inspection practices and training, the remainder
being made available to REA who would construct the distribution facilities.
Local costs and $2 million of foreign costs of installation and civil works
would be met by EEA and the Government.
1.03      The Bank's active association with the energy sector in Egypt began
with a sector review mission in December 1974. The mission's subsequent re-
port prompted the appointment of consultants, Sanderson and Porter, Inc.
(S & P) tc carry out a "Power Sector Survey" for the Government to determine
changes that might be required in EEA's institutional and organizational struc-
ture, its operations and development program to enable it to function more
efficiently and meet Egypt's future power needs. This survey, which is being
financed by a UNDP grant of about US$1 million, has been underway since May
1976 under Bank supervision. A diagnostic phase report was presented to EEA
in November 1976. A summary of the main findings and recommendations of the
report are contained in Annex 1. EEA has directed S & P to assist in the
implementation of the report recommendations except those for hydro optimiza-
tion and 500-kV transmission improvements which are being studied further.
The study recommendations in the areas of system planning and generation
maintenance are not expected before mid-1977 because specialists in these
fields did not join the S & P team until well after the study commenced, due
to UNDP's budget restrictions. The implementation phase of the consultants
work is expected to be completed by the end of May 1978. In addition to the
Power Sector Survey, the Bank is supervising the preparation of a Water Master
Plan also being financed by UNDP. It is expected to optimize development and
use of Egypt's water resources.



1.04      This appraisal report was prepared by P.A. Cordukes (Financial
Analyst) and A. Roa (Engineer). It is based on a feasibility study prepared
by REA and on information which was obtained during missions to Egypt in
August 1976 for pre-appraisal, in October/November 1976 for appraisal and by
a subsequent follow-up mission in February 1977. Mr. R.V. Sear (Consultant
Engineer) undertook the pre-appraisal and follow-up missions and participated
in the appraisal mission with the above named and Mr. G. Bergendahl (Consultant
Economist). The section on training was based on a report and recommendations
by Mr. E. Chittleburgh (training adviser) who visited Egypt in December 1976.
II. THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
A. The Country and the Economy
2.01      Egypt, with an area of about I million km2, is located in the north-
eastern corner of the African continent. It has a rapidly growing population
(2.2%/a) of about 37 million (1975), many of whom are farmers living along
the banks of the Nile river or near the Suez Canal. Most of the country is
desert and less than 4% of the land is used for farming.
2.02      Economic growth since the mid-sixties has been constrained by a
combination of bad harvests and heavy expenditure on defense. Since 1973
Egypt has adopted a new economic strategy aimed at increasing private business
activities and encouraging private foreign capital, although most large enter-
prises and industry continue to be Government-owned and regulated. Recently
the country has experienced substantial growth, financed almost entirely by
foreign aid principally being provided by other Arab countries and the United
States. This aid has been directed towards improving industrial output, recon-
struction of the Canal zone and financing a large balance of payments deficit.
GDP growth in real terms increased from less than 3% in 1973 to an estimated
10% in 1975. However, soaring imports, inflation in food prices (despite
substantial Government subsidies) and rising population threaten continued
growth.
2.03      Despite improved growth and incentives to the private sector, most
of the people are poor and living standards remain low not only in rural areas
but also in the overcrowded cities especially Cairo and Alexandria. Gross
national product per capita was estimated at US$310 in 1975.   Electricity con-
sumption is low, per capita consumption in 1975 being only about 225 kWh per
annum compared with more developed countries such as Portugal and Turkey whose
per capita consumption is about 1,016 kWh and 468 kWh per annum respectively,
but it exceeds that of most Northern African countries such as Algeria (154
kWh) and Morocco (183 kWh). Industrial customers account for about 60% of
EEA's sales while its residential customers in Cairo and Alexandria represent
only about 12% of total sales compared with 32% in Algeria and 24% in Morocco.
Clearly, there is scope for increased electricity consumption for residential
use as GNP and living standards improve most especially in rural areas. A key



element of Government planning is aimed at decentralization of the urban popu-
lation and creation of more productive opportunities in smaller towns and the
rural areas. The ilectrification program of which the Project forms part has
an important role to play in the achievement of this objective.
B. Power and Energy Resources
2.04      Egypt's principal indigenous energy resources are hydropower,
natural gas and oil; there are also small non-coking coal deposits in the
Sinai. No economical deposits of uranium ore have so far been discovered.
Although solar energy is at present untapped, it may become an important
energy source in the longer term.
2.05      With 345 MW installed capacity at the Aswan Dam and 2,100 MW at
the Aswan High Dam, two-thirds of Egypt's hydropower potential has already
been harnessed. Between Aswan and Cairo a further 635 MW could be developed
using the 70 metres of head if existing regulation barrages were strengthened
and additional ones constructed. There are also significant potential economic
sites for pumped-storage schemes on the high plateau overlooking the Gulf of
Suez and on plateaus bordering the Nile near Cairo and Nag Hammadi. The only
other potential source of hydropower is the Qattara Project, 1/ which could
have a firm capacity of about 640 MW while the depression is filling (esti-
mated 12 years) and 340 MW thereafter, replacing water lost by evaporation.
This project is being evaluated by consultants from the Federal Republic of
Germany whose studies are not expected to be completed until about 1978.
2.06      Existing proven reserves of gas amount to 71.3 billion m3.  They are
currently being developed for new industrial consumers which include fertilizer
plants in the Delta to be supplied from the Abu Madi field, cement and steel
plants at Helwan and near Cairo from the Abu El Gharadek field, and a sponge
iron plant near Alexandria from the Abu Qir Field. These fields have an esti-
mated 20 year life. Gas pipeline systems are already completed from the first
two fields. Delays in establishment of these industrial consumers and expected
tripling of reserves by 1980, as well as an expected under-utilization of the
new gas pipeline systems prompted S & P to recommend to EEA gas firing of all
existing and planned thermal plant. S & P have also recommended utilization
of associated gas in the Gulf of Suez, now being flared at the rate of 4 mil-
lion m3 a day, for industry and power generation. It is estimated that the
volume of flared gas will rise to about 12 million m3 a day by 1990. Both the
associated and non-associated gas in Egypt are very clean and have virtually
no sulphur.
2.07      Egypt has been virtually sc-f-sufficient in oil production since
1963 and is becoming a significant exporter. Oil production in 1975 amounted
to 11.7 million tons and domestic consumption to 8.3 million tons. Since 1973
1/   Water from the Mediterranean would be channeled to the Qattara
depression, about 160 km southwest of Alexandria.



-4-
international oil companies have begun more intensive drilling, concentrating
in the Gulf of Suez and the Western Desert; the Ministry of Petroleum projects
crude oil production to reach 50 million tons in the early 1980s of which about
35 million tons might be exported to earn more than US$2.5 billion annually in
foreign exchange, but this level of production may not be reached because the
increased exploration program has met with little success.
C. The Power Sector
History
2.08      Electricity was first introduced into Egypt in 1895.  Isolated diesel
and some oil-fired steam units were installed in major population centers by
various Government, private and municipal organizations. Supply in Cairo was
in private hands until 1949 when the Government-owned Cairo Electric and Gas
Department took over the responsibility from the privately owned Lebon Company.
In Alexandria the assets of the Lebon Company were nationalized in 1961 and
placed in the hands of a government Corporation - the Alexandria Electric and
Gas Authority.
2.09      In 1964 the Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MEE) was formed to
consolidate all of the electricity organizations into one state-owned organ-
ization. This was achieved in 1965 with the establishment of the General
Egyptian Electricity Corporation (GEEC) to own, operate and expand the public
power system. In 1971, the General Rural Electrification Authority was created
to plan and supervise the construction of rural electrification projects.
Early in 1976 the sector was reorganized through the establishment of four new
authorities; the Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) replacing GEEC, the Rural
Electrification Authority (REA), the Nuclear Power Plant Authority (NPPA) and
Qattara Depression Authority.
Organization
2.10      The organizational structure of the sector is shown in Annex 2.
Each of the four authorities is responsible to the Minister of Electricity and
Energy who prescribes sector policies and is responsible for coordination with
Government plans. Regulation and coordination is facilitated through the
Higher Council of the Electricity Sector which includes, in addition to the
MEE, the Ministers of Agriculture and Irrigation, Industry and Petroleum.
Each of the authorities has a board of directors whose members are appointed
by the Prime Minister upon the recommendation of the Minister of Electricity
and Energy. The chairman of the respective boards is appointed by Republican
Decree.
2.11      Construction work is normally performed by three MEE companies which
undertake works on a competitive proposal basis for the MEE's authorities, for
other Government organizations and for the private sector. They have also
contracted work in neighboring countries. However, private local contractors
have recently indicated interest in REA work and are expected to participate
through local bidding procedures.



2.12      The EEA, which would be the borrower, is responsible for implementa-
tion, management, operation and maintenance of all power facilities throughout
Egypt. Its organization is shown in Annex 3. A new law (No. 12 of 1976) was
ratified by the People's Assembly on January 18, 1976, as part of the reorgan-
:ization of the sector; a summary of its main provisions is contained in Annex
4. One of the key aims of the reorganization was to give the EEA more autonomy
for developing its own manpower and budgetary policies, financial and account-
in.g p-ocedures. New by-laws were drafted accordingly and were approved by
Government on April 26, 1977. The changes within the power sector appear
to be similar to those being made for other Government authorities and have
resulted so far in only limited reduction in Government control. The prin-
cipal change for EEA has been the transfer of the Government-owned contracting
companies to the MEE. Further changes may evolve gradually as EEA seeks
greater autonomy and increased efficiency, a process which should commence
with the implementation of its by-laws (para 2.15).
2.13      EEA's head office is in Cairo from which it co-ordinates operation
and maintenance through its five zone offices for the Cairo, Alexandria, Canal,
Delta and Upper Egypt zones. Each zone has its own President who serves on
EEA's board of directors. The zones have freedom to develop their own in-
:zernal procedures and practices but their programs, budgets and finances
must be approved by the head office. Outside the Cairo and Alexandria zones,
coordination of transmission, distribution and customer billing between EEA,
REA and the local councils within zones is achieved through offices in each
Governorate (there are 26 Governorates or administrative divisions for the
whole of Egypt).
2.i4      Except in Cairo and Alexandria, municipal councils buy power in bulk
from EEA and bill and collect revenue from all low voltage customers, even
though EEA is responsible for all operations throughout the country, including
distribution. The customer billing activities of the councils are not reported
to 2EA9 and any surplus earned from this source is retained by the councils.
Xn September of 1976 the Higher Council of the Electricity Sector recommended
to the Government formation of seven new distribution companies to take over
all distribution assets, operate and maintain them, and to undertake the cus-
toomae billing function.  The precise form of the companies will be determined
by iegislation to be enacted but they are expected to be subsidiary companies
of ELA. The companies to be established will encompass the same areas as
EEA's existing zone offices except that Upper Egypt would be split into two,
Middle Upper Egypt and High Upper Egypt, and a new northern zone would be
created for the three Governorates west of Cairo and Alexandria.  Since these
companies will eventually own, operate and maintain the assets to be financed
by the Bank loan, the Government agreed to ensure that decisions with respect
to establishment of distribution companies will include provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for the management, ownership, operation and maintenance of the
assets, audit of the consolidated accounts of EEA, and consolidation of per-
formance of the obligations under the financial covenants.
2.15      The EEA budgeted for more than 43,000 employees in 1976 and in
'977 expects the numbers to reach 50,000. However, these statistics include
at least 3,000 ex-servicemen and young graduates who are on the payroll by
Government direction but not actually fully employed by EEA in established
positions0 Government policy aims to avoid involuntary unemployment, a



policy which all Government departments and authorities are obliged to sup-
port. Throughout the sector it is clear that there is considerable over-
staffing and a severe shortage of experienced middle and top management level
executives. Proposals for strengthening EEA's training activities have been
made by the Bank which has reviewed sector training plans and needs (para
2.19). While the efficiency of existing staff may be upgraded by training,
there is a continuing stream of qualified staff leaving Egypt to take up higher
paid employment in neighbouring countries, which will continue to partially
erode the training efforts. Basic salary scales are extremely low by com-
parison with those in most Arab countries, ranging from less than LE 200 to
only about LE 2,000 (US$ equivalent $300-$3,000) per year. EEA's new by-laws
(para 2.12) would give EEA the authority to increase salaries and benefits,
to provide incentives for above average performance and to approve dismissal
procedures where circumstances may warrant and should be. effective in the
longer-term, but short-term improvements will depend largely on EEA's in-
creased training activities. Country-wide improvements will depend on the
effectiveness of the Government's political and economic policies and the
extent to which they are supported by foreign financial assistance to Egypt
as a whole.
Existing Facilities
2.16      Since 1970, all important hydro and thermal generating stations in
Egypt have operated interconnected through EEA's unified power system--see
IBRD Map 12674. The system has a total installed generating capacity of
2,445 MW of hydro in the South--345 MW at the Aswan Dam station, and 2,100 MW
at the High Dam station--and 1,370 MW of steam and gas-turbine units, mostly
in the Delta. A 500-kV, double-circuit transmission line, 838-km long, con-
nects the Aswan stations to the Delta Region and is the backbone of the inter-
connected system. Further interconnection is accomplished through 2,400 km
of 220-kV and 3,550 km of 132-kV transmission. Subtransmission at 66kV (2,600
kim) and 33 kV (1,600 km) supplies 11-kV, 6.6-kV, and 3-kV distribution in the
entire service area. Low voltage distribution is 380/220 volts, patterned
after European practices. System frequency is 50 Hz.
2.17      Excessive outages experienced during early operation of the 500-kV
system moved EEA to impose unusually severe restrictions on the maximum load
assigned to the hydro stations. This limitation in the power transmitted from
Aswan to the large load centers in the Delta has delayed full utilization of
available High Dam generation. Although load growth averaged 17%/a during
1974-76, and is estimated at 13%/a average for 1976-80, existing capacity and
committed construction are ample to serve the short term needs if expected
improvements in system operation are realized.
2.18      Total net generation for 1975 was 9,793 GWh, with a peak demand of
1,733 MW, and 64.5% load factor. For 1976, the estimated figures are: 11,800
GWh, 2,000 MW and 67.4% load factor. Approximately 40% of the total popula-
tion has access to electricity. In the rural zones this figure is about 20%.



-7-
Training
2.19      EEA is tary conscious of the need for training and is well aware of
its manpower problems. For these reasons it particularly requested that the
Power Sector Review give attention to its training needs. Howevel, because
of insufficient funds, this was not possible and instead the Bank undertook
the task of identifying the training needs of the sector. The Bank's report
is reproduced as Annex 5. EEA gives its manpower function equal. status with
the other three main functions in its organizational structure of finance,
operations and projects (including studies and research). It has two well-
equipped training centers: one in Cairo South for training and re-training of
engineers and the other at the Cairo North power station for technicians and
skilled workers. Both facilities are under-utilized and do not provide any
training for commercial and financial staff.  They also lack adequate accom-
modation facilities and instructors. A training program consisting of 9 man-
years of technical assistance, accommodation units for 100 trainees at each
of the EEA's training centers, audio-visual and other didactic materials and
training for three instructor trainers at the ILO International Center for
Vocational Training in Turin and expected to have a foreign exchange cost of
US$1.2 million was agreed to be included as part of the Project.
Tariffs
2.20      EEA's existing tariffs (Annex 6) are based on a 1970 study by
Electricite de France (EdF) which provided an appropriate basis for calculat-
ing the costs of supply. However, the current tariffs do not realisticalily
reflect the costs of supply in economic terms because fuel is charged to EEA
at subsidized prices i.e. pre-1973 prices and not at its export value or at
international prices. Using international prices for fuel oil, the cost of
generation per kWh from EEA's new steam plant 1/ has been estimated to be 14.4
milliemes of which 8.5 milliemes would be for fuel alone. This position will
improve once the change over to associated gas firing is accomplished 'para
2.06).
2.21      In 1975, EEA's average revenue per kWh sold was about 9 m-illiemes,
barely sufficient to cover the fuel cost in new thermal plant. Industry,
which consumes about 60% of electricity sold, paid on average only about 7
milliemes per kWh despite a tariff increase of 20% which was introduced ir
January 1975 for all consumers except municipalities and residential customers.
Certain larger industrial customers are on special tariffs, the two most impor-
tant being the aluminum smelter at Nag Hammadi which paid about 2.5 milliemes/
kWh and the Kima fertilizer complex near Aswan whose tariff was increased from
about 1.8 milliemes/kWh in 1974 to about 5.0 2/ milliemes/kWh in 1975. By 1979
these two customers are expected to account for about 36% of EEA's total sales.
1/   Sanderson & Porter - "Power Sector Survey - November 1976, P. 103,
Table VII-1".
2/   A Ministerial Committee headed by the Minister of Finance reduced this
rate to 3.354 milliemes per kWh for 1975 but has made no decision on the
actual rates to be applied in 1976 and 1977.



- B-
The prices paid by these consumers and other industrial consumers are clearly
less than the marginal cost of supply from Egypt's newest baseload steam
plants. To the extent that these tariffs are below the long-run marginal
costs of supply, these consumers are being subsidized through EEA, Action to
correct this situation is expected to be taken by EEA following a tariff study
(para 2.27).
2.22      The municipalities, who buy power in bulk from EEA at 10.5 milliemes
per kWh (i.e. 9.0 milliemes/kWh for power and 1.5 milliemes/kWh for system
operation and maintenance), bill all medium and low voltage consumers in the
cities, towns and villages beyond Cairo and Alexandria. By law, the prices
they charge may not exceed those in Cairo and Alexandria and in practice they
are the same as in Cairo and Alexandria. (Where a customer's installed capac-
ity exceeds 624 kVA, supply is provided directly by EEA which bills these con-
sumers at its normal tariffs.) No doubt the cost of supply to rural consumers
is higher than in Cairo and Alexandria but the Government is anxious to improve
conditions in rural areas and has based its decision to establish a uniform
tariff to low voltage residential and commercial consumers on the basis of the
limited capacity of rural consumers to pay higher costs for supply.
2.23      Nearly all medium and low voltage rates are based on declining block
tariffs. As consumption increases the price to the consumer is reduced, but
the cost of incremental supplies may not be declining. As a result larger
consumers who often can afford to pay more may in fact be paying less than
the cost of supplying them. The tariff study proposed in para 2.27 is also
expected to address this problem.
2.24      All consumers pay a charge for installation of a meter based on the
type of service, in addition to a nominal monthly meter rental charge. Where
existing lines have to be extended to supply a new consumer, that consumer
pays in advance the cost of the extension, subject to a minimum charge of
LE 1,000. Even at this price there are reported to be as many as 40,000
potential consumers willing to pay for supply but who cannot be connected
because the distribution systems are already overloaded.
2.25      Changes in electricity prices can be secured only through a time-
consuming and cumbersome process. First, EEA must determine its basic costs
which are then checked by the Central Auditing Organization and the Price
Planning Authority. They are then submitted to the Higher Council of the
Electricity Sector, and finally approved by the Council of Ministers and
issued as a Presidential decree.
2.26      In June of 1976, the Chairman of EEA set up a committee to study the
costs of generation, transmission and distribution up to 1980, to recommend
rate increases and to establish a fair basis for determining costs on which a
tariff structure could be formulated. The committee has recommended that-the
cost of electricity should include:
(i) depreciation of the High Dam electrical assets and the
500-kV transmission and assets transferred to EEA by
REA for operation and maintenance;



- 9 -
(ii) interest on all local and foreign loans; and
(iii) a 3% return on total invested capital as dpproved by the
Council of Ministers on July 25, 1973.
Othek important proposals of the committee were: consumers in the duty-free
zones in Alexandria, Port Said and Suez should pay tariffs which include the
_srI:ernational price of fuel (calculated at the parallel market rate of ex-
change), and local fuel and other price changes should be reflected in tariffs
for all categories of consumers. Its proposals for increases in tariffs of
about 10% were recently approved by EEA's board of directors and submitted
to the Government for consideration.
2.2/      EEA has agreed to employ consultants on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank to review existing tariffs and formulate an appropriate
tariff structure and rates. This study, which would be financed by the Bank,
would contain specific tariff rate recommendations taking into account the
cr'teria of the EEA Committee mentioned in para 2.20. Anomalies and defi-
ciencies in EEA's present tariff structure (paras 2.20 and 2.21) would be
identified by the study. Appropriate terms of reference have been proposed
to EEA by the Bank and a report is expected to be completed within 12 months
after commencement of the study.
Sector Finances
2.28      Until 1976, the power sector finances of GEEC were for practical
puwposes part of the Government's. The GEEC budget was a part of the Govern-
mernt budget; any unspent funds and profits were returned to the Ministry of
Finance at the end of each year.  Since EEA was established it prepares its
cwn budget for approval by its Board of Directors, which then must be ratified
3y the Minister of Electricity and Energy and finally approved by the People's
Assembly. EEA's budget is a cash budget which is prepared only for one year.
Its 5-Year Plan for investments is submitted to the Ministry of Planning for
coordination with the national 5-Year Plan. The current plan for 1976-80
is still tentative and has not been ratified by the Parliament.
2.29      Day to day operation and maintenance, customer billing and account-
'ng are controlled by the zone offices which appear to have considerable
autonomy in relation to EEA's head office (para 2.13). At the head office,
consolidated accounts are prepared on the basis of figures provided by the
zone offices. Monthly cost reports are prepared on a cash basis but include
uncontrollable costs such as overhead, depreciation and transfers. In any
case they are reported to be issued too late to be effective for cost control.
Customer billing and collection at the zone offices is partly computerized
in Cairo and Alexandria. However, at Alexandria the transfer of records to
the computer was made without provision for parallel operation. As a result
the customer billing process for Alexandria as of December 1976 was several
months behind. Financial consultants to be engaged by EEA (para 5.07) will
look further into computerization of the customer accounting functions.



- 10 -
D. The Development Program
Generating Capacity
2.30      Generating capacity planned or under construction by EEA through
1982 totals 2,107.5 MW 1/ compared to an existing installed capacity of 3,815
MW. All the scheduled additions are thermal units--steam or gas turbines.
Power and energy balances developed as part of the appraisal, Annexes 7 and 8,
suggest some of this new capacity may be premature, particularly if due atten-
tion is paid to the increased utilization of the hydroelectric potential of
the two Aswan Dams and the possibility of additional power installations in
new and existing Nile barrages as recommended by S & P in the Phase I report
of the UNDP Power Sector Survey.
Future Program
2.31      EEA predicts a large increase in specific new industrial loads
between 1977 and 1982 as shown in Annex 9. Also, consumption by existing
industrial loads is expected to increase by 900 GWh in 1976 and 180 GWh in
1977. New industrial loads in 1978 and 1979 would add 1,290 GWh each year.
The next significant increase would come in 1982 when an additional 2,580 GWh
per year is expected. EEA's figures appear optimistic in light of previous
load projections and recent S & P findings shown in Annexes 10 and 11 respec-
tively. Previous load forecasts are generally in agreement on a total consump-
tion figure of approximately 20,700 GWh in 1980. They are also very close for
1985 with about 29,200 GWh. These values are below the 29,100 and 32,000 GWh
figures predicted by EEA for the same years. An industry-by-industry review
by S & P confirms a certain amount of over-optimism in the EEA figures. Not
more than a 10% average annual increase of industrial load from 1976 to 1985
can be supported from the consultant's findings. This was the assumption for
industrial load growth used in the generation and sales projections developed
as part of the appraisal and shown in Annex 12. Assuming that distribution
systems are improved as required, other consumption (residential, commercial,
irrigation, etc.) was also assumed to grow at an average of 10%/a for the same
period. The appraisal load forecast brings the figures suggested by EEA to
more realistic values as supported by recent evaluation of potential indus-
trial loads and previous projections. Annex 14 shows a detailed construction
program to cover power and energy requirements to meet the needs forecast up
to 1980. This program was also developed as part of the appraisal taking into
account the EEA committed program. It will require an investment of LE 921
million (US$1,382 million) including escalation. Since a major objective of
the Power Sector survey (para 1.03) is to improve EEA's planning capabilities,
it is expected that the 1977-80 construction program will be scaled down
somewhat to a program similar to that in Annex 14 deferring about US$120
1/   Sanderson & Porter - "Power Sector Survey" - November 1976, page 67,
Table IV-1. (Applies to the EEA interconnected system only. Does not
include several small diesel engine and gas turbine units going to
isolated desert and coastal areas.)



- 11 -
million for at least two years, following receipt of the S & P recommendations
on system planning expected about mid-1977. S & P are already taking steps in
that direction (for example, an improved version of the WASP (see Annex 10)
system planning program has been made available.) Improvements in utilization
of hydropower production and peaking capabilities (assumed maximum capabili-
ties were 12,000 GWh/a and 1,800 MW, respectively) are assumed in line with
applicable recommendations of the Power Sector Survey Phase I report.
Transmission Program
2.32      Concurrently with the generation expansion program above, a massive
program covering addition of lines and substations rated 500, 220, 132, 66
and 33-kV is under way to cover the needs of the EEA up to 1982 (about 1,600
MW incremental capacity). Additional transmission to connect future genera-
tion to be located near associated gas fields in the Gulf of Suez and to
improve the Aswan-Cairo 500-kV system has also been proposed to EEA by S & P.
Distribution Program
2.33      Distribution facilities in most of Egypt are run-down and over-
loaded. Two major efforts are in progress to correct these deficiencies and
restore adequate service. One, under EEA, covers Cairo and Alexandria and the
Canal Zone. The other covers about 120 towns, 4,000 villages and 25,000 ham-
lets in the 80 zones of REA's National Rural Electrification Plan (Annex 13).
The REA program was started in 1971 and to date some 84 towns have had their
systems reinforced and expanded and 2,000 villages have been electrified in
28 zones. The remaining 52 zones are scheduled for completion during 1976-80.
The Project covers about 60% of the remaining program in terms of number of
zones, and 18% in terms of required investment.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The Project would improve and expand electric power distribution
facilities serving a regional population of 6 million people in about 32
zones. Through assistance for training, consultants, and studies, it would
also strengthen organizational and institutional aspects of EEA and REA. In
addition, proposed monitoring systems would gather and process basic statis-
tical data to support expected improvements in EEA's and REA's planning
capabilities and procedures.



- 12 -
B. Description
3.02      The Project, covering about 18% of REA's program for the period
1976-80, consists of approximately 3,400 km of 11-kV and 380/220 V overhead
and underground distribution lines and related equipment, 230 MVA of substatton
and distribution transformer capacity and 100 km of 66-kV and 33-kV subtrans.
mission lines and related facilities, training and consulting services (Annex
16). These facilities would be located in about 32 REA zones (13 urban and
19 rural) in Upper and Lower Egypt. Only the first 23 of those zones (9 urban
and 14 rural) were appraised (see Annex 25, Attachment 1, and IBRD Map 12674).
These zones are expected to be representative of the remainder, identified
subsequently (Annex 15); however, since the Project provides for improvement
in REA's planning and evaluation procedures, redefinition of the rural zones
would be permitted as planning improves and detailed engineering progresses.
The training component consists of audio-visual and other didactic material,
18 man-months of overseas training for Egyptian instructor-trainers, 108
man-months of technical assistance, and new dormitory-type accommodations for
about 100 trainees at EEA's two training centers in Cairo. Consulting services
would include about 264 man-months of engineering and studies for REA. The
technical assistance component comprises 132 man-months of technical assistance
for EEA to implement UNDP sector survey recommendations on financial adminis-
tration and accounting, a tariff study and review of safety and inspection
practices.
3.03      Rehabilitation and extension of existing distribution facilities
would be done in stages. The Project would provide, initially, sufficient
transformers, switchgear, cables, etc. representing 65-70% of the total in-
stallations needed to accommodate a 10-year load growth in each zone. The
balance would be completed through additions as part of REA's routine program.
C. Status of Engineering
3.04      Some preliminary engineering was completed in 1971-73 by REA with
the help of Soviet consultants at the start of the National Rural Electrifica-
tion Plan. A great deal of the information developed then needs to be updated
and upgraded. Recently, EEA engaged Harza Engineering Co. (US) to review cur-
rent Egyptian distribution practices and recommend suitable planning, design
and construction standards. Harza's contract, financed by USAID and originally
intended to cover only Cairo, Alexandria and two provincial cities, was later
amended to also include the urban areas in the Project zones.
3.05      The Project consultants would review all proposed rural zones--
according to kWh consumption potential--to rank them for electrification
construction priority. The consultants would then follow up with detailed
design, bidding documents and specifications and construction supervision as
further detailed in the Terms of Reference outlined in Annex 15. REA has
elected to have Harza serve as consultants for the Project and requested



- 13 -
retroactive financing of costs for these services incurred after May 1, 1977,
not to exceed US$150,000. A contract acceptable to the Bank is under negotia-
tion and Harza is expected to commence work on the Project before the end of
May.
3.06      The ranking of the rural zones would aim at maximizing the financial
and economic return on the Project. REA has included the following criteria 1/
in the terms of reference for the Project Consultants and will apply them to
the selection of the remaining rural zones, and to REA's future development:
(a) Financial return should be enough to contribute to debt
service within the first 10 years of operations.
(b) Internal financial rate of return, not less than 4% over
a 25-year period.
(c) Average initial per capita income not less than US$50/a
in the selected area.
(d) Income growth rate not less than 5%/a.
(e) Preferentially, the Project should include regions where:
-    the quality of infrastructure, particularly of
roads and waterways, is reasonably good;
-    there is evidence of growth of output from agricul-
culture; and where, therefore,
-    there is evidence of a growing number of productive
uses in farms and agro-industries;
-    there are a number of large villages, not too widely
scattered;
-    incomes and living standards are improving;
-    there are coordinated plans for developing the
regions; and
-    the region is reasonably close to the central elec-
tricity supply system.
1/   (a) and (e) were taken from "Rural Electrification", World Bank
publication, October 1975; others are mission recommendations.



- 14 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.07      The estimated cost of the Project (Annex 16) is US$70.6 million,
of which US$50.0 million would be foreign exchange costs. The estimates,
summarized below, do not include interest during construction, and since EEA
and REA are both tax-exempt by law, taxes and duties are also excluded.
LE Millions                US$ Millions
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
Overhead and Underground
Transmission and
Distribution                  5.8    15.6       21.4        8.7    23.5    32.2
Substation equipment
and Transformers              2.3      6.2       8.5        3.4      9.3    12.7
Engineering                      .6     1.5       2.1          .9     2.2      3.1
Studies & Training               .8     1.5       2.3         1.2     2.2     3.4
Subtotal                  9.5    24.8      34.3        14.2    37.2    51.4
Contingencies:
Physical                  1.0      2.7      3.7         1.5      4.1     5.6
Price                     3.3      5.8      9.1         4.9      8.7    13.6
Total Project Cost             13.8    33.3      47.1       20.6    50.0    70.6
3.08      The estimated cost is based on REA estimates for similar work using
late 1976 base prices. Project cost estimates were developed from unit costs
in Annex 16. Consulting services were estimated at US$2.2 million for Project
Consultants (264 man-months), US$1,092,000 for extension of the Power Sector
Survey, tariff studies and review of safety and inspection practices (132 man-
months), and US$648,000 for technical assistance in training (108 man-months).
Physical contingency was assumed at 11% for all components. Escalation was
applied in accordance with the following annual rates corresponding to expected
conditions:
1977-79     1980
Civil Works (local currency), %                      12         10
Equipment & Materials (foreign currency), %           8          7
E. Financing
3.09      The proposed loan of US$48.0 million equivalent would cover 96%
of the foreign exchange costs of the Project. The remaining costs would be
financed by the Government and EEA. These funds are described as loans but
are in fact treated as contributions would be subject to interest of 5%/a. It
has been assumed that the Bank loan would be for 20 years including a 4-1/2



- 15 -
year period of grace. Interest during construction on the Bank loan of about
US$8.0 million and the foreign exchange costs associated with the local erec-
tion contracts ($2.0 million) would be financed by the Government through EEA.
The Bank loan woule be guaranteed by the Government of Egypt but made to EEA
who would make the proceeds available to REA under a subsidiary agreement
excluding the portion for financial consultants, the tariff study, review of
safety and inspection practices and training which would be disbursed to EEA.
Execution of the subsidiary agreement would be a condition of loan effective-
ness.
3.10      To ensure availability of adequate local counterpart funds when
needed, the Government agreed as a condition of effectiveness to establish a
special fund (to be replenished monthly) available to REA sufficient to meet
at least three months' expenditure on the Project, as determined from time to
time. In the event cost overruns occur, the Government will provide any funds
needed to complete the Project.
F. Implementation
Responsibility
3.11      REA would be responsible for Project implementation, assisted by
its engineering consultants. Within REA, the Project would be controlled
by the pertinent divisions under the office of the Deputy Chairman for Tech-
nical Affairs through a coordinating Project Unit specifically established
for the Project. REA established this unit and appointed suitable staff by
means of an Administrative Resolution issued by its Chairman on April 5, 1977.
At the Bank's request the Project Manager participated in the loan negotia-
tions.
Project Monitoring and Statistical Data
3.12      The present decentralized distribution of power through municipali-
ties has prevented collection of comprehensive statistical data on load
patterns, total investment costs and operating accounts for the areas already
electrified. Data of this kind is indispensable for future planning of the
National Rural Electrification Plan and the overall development of electricity
supply in Egypt. The Bank's recommendations with respect to monitoring the
EEA system and the Project are shown in Annex 17. EEA agreed to adopt a
system of indicators to monitor its technical and financial performance while
REA agreed to develop a system to monitor the National Rural Electrification
Plan by September 30, 1978, which would be implemented subject to any modifica-
tions requested by the Bank
Construction Schedule
3.13      The Project facilities would be installed in the period 1978-80.  As
part of supervision services, the consultant proposed for the Project would
develop detailed construction schedules and suitable monitoring devices in-
cluding specifically critical path schedules. REA agreed that these schedules



- 16 -
and any material modifications to them would be furnished promptly to the Ban~*
REA has customarily awarded installation and erection contracts to one of the
three MEE construction companies. However, private local contractors have rep-
cently indicated interest in REA work and are expected to participate through
local bidding procedures.  REA agreed to provide the Bank with copies of the
bid documents, specifications and contracts relating to the erection and in-
stallation of facilities provided under the Project.
Risks
3.14      There are no special risks involved in the implementation of this
project, and because of the importane the Government attaches to rural elec-
trification and of REA's dependence on the project to carry out a substantial
part of its 1978-80 work program, the project should have a less than average
risk. REA has experience with projects of this kind and its technical and
managerial capabilities are being strengthened through consultants under
the Project. MEE's contracting companies and private local contractors are
expected to carry out the installation and erection works under the project;
however, through EEA's parallel program for the improvement of the distribu-
tion systems of Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal Zone, their workload is heavy.
To avoid related delays, cost increases, and other problems, EEA's consultants
are studying how the capacity of the electrical contracting industry can be
expanded and the efficiency of works can be improved through changes in design
and construction practices. The Government is aware of the magnitude of local
funds required for the project and special commitments have been obtained to
ensure that shortage of local counterpart funds will not hinder project execu-
tion (para 3.10).
G. Procurement and Disbursement
3.15      The proceeds of the proposed loan would finance all of the foreign
exchange cost of equipment and materials, consultants' services, studies and
training required for the Project. Disbursement would be for the c.i.f. cost
of imported items and related services and for the ex-factory costs of items
manufactured locally, for 40% of the cost of dormitory-type facilities, and
for 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants hired outside Egypt and 70%
of local expenditures for consultants hired locally. The estimated disburse-
ments from the proposed loan are shown in Annex 18. Estimated closing date
is December 31, 1981. Contracts for equipment and materials would be awarded
under international competitive bidding (ICB) consistent with Part A of the
Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement". A preference of 15% or applicable
duties, whichever is the lesser, would be granted to Egyptian manufacturers
who participate. However, because of the high manufacturing costs and heavy
backlog of orders of local manufacturers, neither REA nor the Bank expect,
successful local bids. Retroactive financing of foreign expenditures for
consultants' services up to US$150,000 is proposed (para 3.05). All funds
are expected to be disbursed for the Project.



- 17 -
3.16      Contracting for dormitory type facilities (approximately US$1 mil-
lion) would also be through ICB in accordance with procedures described in
preceding paragraph. Disbursement would be against a percentage of the total
contract cost (40%), representing the foreign exchange cost. Audio-visual and
other didactic materials (approximately US$50,000), for the training component,
and meters, relays and similar equipment requiring standardization, would be
procured under "Other Procurement Procedures", Part B of the Guidelines, after
inviting quotations from at least three suppliers or the manufacturers, as
appropriate. Total cost of contracts awarded under Part B Procedures would
not exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent.
3.17      Rational use of REA's stock would insure against delays in Project
construction because of untimely deliveries. To permit this, disbursements
for replenishment stock of distribution equipment and materials (e.g. poles,
hardware, insulators, crossarms, distribution transformers, wire and cable,
etc.) withdrawn after loan signing and used in the Project, would be permitted.
H. Environmental Impact
3.18      The work consists of rehabilitation of existing underground dis-
tribution plus extension of overhead lines in agricultural areas. Therefore,
following conventional practices there would be no significant environmental
impact.
IV. THE PROJECT ENTITY
A. Background
4.01      The REA will be responsible for supervising the execution of the
Project.  It was established in 1971 as the General Rural Electrification
Authority and subsequently renamed the REA under Law 27/76 signed by the
President of the Republic on March 23, 1976. Law 27 contains provisions
similar to those for EEA. REA's main functions are:
(a) to study, plan and implement the Government's rural elec-
trification program and upgrade the existing distribution
networks up to and including 66 kV (except those for Cairo
and Alexandria which remain EEA's responsibility);
(b) to connect new low and medium voltage consumers including
local industries, irrigation and agricultural.



- 18 -
B. Organization and Management
4.02      REA's organization structure is shown in Annex 19.  The functions
of the various departments are described in Annex 20. It has about 5,000
permanent staff and engages at least another 20% on a temporary basis to meet
construction needs in the field. Most of its managerial staff were formerly
with EEA and there continues to be a regular interchange of staff between
the two authorities. They also work closely together in the field where REA
maintains a joint office with EEA in each of the 16 Governorates of Upper and
Lower Egypt. Like EEA, REA is overstaffed and short of capable senior and
middle level staff. REA would also expect to derive benefits from the enhanced
training program (para 2.19).
C. Operations
4.03      REA records the costs of its construction works using simple hand-
written cost records which show the direct cost of materials (at average cost)
progressively as they are incurred. At year-end all the overheads or indirect
costs are allocated to completed works or works in progress in proportion to
the amount recorded for direct costs. Thus REA operates strictly on a cost
recovery basis. Up to December 1975, REA had spent LE 80 million on elec-
trification since its formation in 1971. All interest expense on loans in-
cluding a 5% annual payment on Government contributions has been capitalized.
So far REA has not transferred financially any completed work to EEA. From
the end of 1976, REA is expected to hand over all completed work each year to
EEA for operation and maintenance in accordance with recommendations of the
EEA committee studying costs (para 2.26). The relevant loans and debt service
obligations will be transferred to EEA with the completed fixed assets in
accordance with arrangements with REA.
4.04      Prior to enacting Law 27, any funds provided by the Government in
its budget for electrification in rural areas which were unspent at year end
were retained by the Ministry of Finance and not transferred to REA for use
in the following year. Under the new law REA may retain any unspent portion
from the Government's budget for use in the next year. About 20% or LE 19
million of REA's expenditures to the end of 1975 has been financed by foreign
loans of which LE 14 million were provided by Russia. Most of the foreign
loans are in the form of suppliers' credits on concessionary terms.
4.05      The MEE has planned that REA should spend LE 262 million excluding
interest during construction during the 1976-80 Five-Year Plan of which about
40% or LE 106 million would be for foreign costs. Firm sources of foreign
financing arranged so far will provide only about LE 10 million, half of which
is expected to be for equipment purchases from Russia. REA is actively seek-
ing other foreign funds in the form of suppliers' credits and loans from
bilateral sources on concessionary terms. In this context, it has requested
US$25 million from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). Also
the Government has arranged for the provision of equipment from Finland in
exchange for aluminum under a barter agreement. In addition to financing



- 19 -
the distribution study USAID is planning to finance distribution projects
in Cairo, Alexandria and two provincial cities and in the Canal Zone. The
USAID financed d:stribution program is not being implemented under REA super-
vision but (as a tart of Harza Engineering consulting services) by EEA. The
Government is giving high priority to rural electrification, and al. local
costs are expected to be provided for in the Government budget. However, the
availability of foreign funds will clearly determine the extent to which the
REA electrification program can be achieved.
V. FINANCE
A. Past Performance and Present Position
5.01      Since REA acts only as the executing agency for rehabilitation and
expansion of distribution works outside Cairo and Alexandria including that
under the proposed Bank Project, the Bank has not made a detailed financial
review of REA beyond identifying the adequacy of its budgeting process (para
4.03) and financial administration. Instead it has reviewed the financial
position and prospects of EEA which would be the Borrower and initially re-
sponsible for ownership and operation of the Project facilities. As the EEA
was only established as an independent Government-owned electricity authority
in 1976, it has yet to present its first financial statements. Prior to 1976,
EEA's predecessor, the GEEC, operated as a Government corporation whch in-
cluded the three construction companies that now report directly to the MEE.
However, as the construction companies maintained their own accounts and only
paid small dividends to the GEEC, the accounts of the GEEC provide an adequate
guide to the electric utility sector's financial performance prior to 1976.
As of February 12, 1976, EEA assumed all the GEEC's assets, liabilities, rights
and obligations. The income statements and balance sheets of the GEEC for the
years 1973 through 1975 are shown in Annexes 21 and 22. The accounts as of
December 31, 1972 were for a period of 18 months following a change in the
GEEC's fiscal year from June to December and these accounts have therefore not
been shown. As the 1975 accounts were still being audited during the Bank's
appraisal visit, the accounts for 1975 are preliminary.
5.02      Neither EEA nor its predecessor GEEC have earned a profit since 1972.
Its financial performance is distorted by:
(a) previous years' adjustments probably arising from delays in
completion of accounts by the zone offices;
(b)  the use of the c;overnment s standardized accounting system
which is designed to measure production inputs and value-
added for national statistical purposes;
(c) failure to separate EEA's liabilities from those of the REA
and transfer completed assets to EEA;



- 20 -
(d)  the valuation of fixed assets is not yet complete.  Specifi-
cally the fixed assets forming part of the High Dam Project
and associated loans are included in EEA's books at estimated
values only; and
(e)  problem areas identified by the GEEC's audit reports in
previous years have not been corrected. As a result the
GEEC's auditors have not been prepared to give an unquali-
fied opinion on the accounts. Problems which are referred
to in the auditor's reports include:
(i) lack of coordination between technical and financial
departments which affects stock, work in progress,
and fixed assets accounts;
(ii) the costing system does not enable control of work
in progress, stock and in-transit items;
(iii) irregularities in stock records;
(iv) accounts with the zones not reconciled; and
(v) no inventory of fixed assets.
5.03      Unpaid electricity accounts at the end of 1975 1/ amounted to about
LE 51 million representing almost 8 months sales; a provision for bad debts
of almost LE 20 million had been made. Nearly all unpaid accounts are owed
by the public sector; municipal councils, public utilities, government build-
ings and industrial companies. In some cases, failure to pay is due to inade-
quate budget provision by these organizations, in others it is due to refusal
to accept the 20% rate increase which was introduced in January 1975. The
Government agreed to take action to reduce the level of unpaid bills (para
5.12).
5.04      Although GEEC incurred a net loss in 1975, operating income was suf-
ficient to provide a rate of return on average net fixed assets in service of
4.1%. If the provision for bad debts were reduced by half (i.e. LE 10 mil-
lion), the rate of return would have exceeded 7%. However, the rate base,
gross fixed assets in service minus depreciation, on which the rate of return
was calculated, comprises fixed assets valued at historical costs and, as men-
tioned previously (para 5.02), in the case of the High Dam assets at an esti-
mated value. Depreciation is based on the straight line method using rates
established under the national standardized accounting system. There has been
some adjustment to rates for hydro plant, transmission lines and substations
since the High Dam was completed. These are now all proposed to be depreciated
over 50 years (previously 40 years). Assets which remain in service after they
have been fully depreciated continue to be depreciated at half rates. However,
1/   Figures for 1976 were not completed but EEA estimated delinquent elec-
tricity accounts as of December 31, 1976 to be about LE 60 million.



- 21 -
the latter provisions which are held as a reserve for revaluation are small.
Deprec-!ation policies, with the exception of the provisions charged on assets
which have been fully depreciated, are considered appropriate but gross fixed
assets 4n service and depreciation should be revalued periodically to reflect
pzlce level changes and to provide an appropriate rate base for determining
EEAhs operating performance (para 5.06).
5OCS      Since 1973, while gross fixed assets in service have grown at less
tzhen 3%/a to LE 436 million, sales have risen by 16%/a. This has been clearly
a period of consolidation and little new investment due to Egypt's interna-
tional problems, scarcity of funds, and adequacy of existing generating capac-
ity. GEEC's capital structure reflects a similar trend; the debt/equity ratio
wEa 75:25 at the end of 1975 (compared with 77:23 for 1973). The corpora-
tion's capital of LE 75.6 million has been unchanged since 1968. Most of
EZA's existing long-term debt (about 88%) is owed to the Government and repay-
able over 12 years subject to annual interest of 5%. Foreign debts total
about LE 40 million of which about LE 29 million is owed to the USSR and the
remainder are short-term suppliers/export credits on soft terms. Foreign
debts have not been revalued to reflect foreign exchange adjustments. There-
Z:Cor' the Bank has proposed that they should be (see para 5.15).
5.06      Many of the problems described above have been diagnosed by Sanderson
and Porter in their Power Sector Survey (para 1.03). Therefore the Bank sug-
gested to EEA that the S & P team be supplemented by three additional financial
consultants under a separate contract. The services of these experts would be
fHnanced under the proposed Bank loan for a period of two years at an estimated
foreign cost of US$600,000.  Their principal functions would be to assist EEA
to.
(a) modify the national standardized accounting system to better
meet the needs of EEA as an autonomous public utility authority
especially for improved cost control and management information;
(b) update the fixed assets records and propose a simple formula
for revaluation of EEA's fixed assets and depreciation provi-
sions to reflect current price levels; and
(c) undertake a study of the feasibility of transferring customer
billing, payroll and other high volume accounting activities
to computer processing.
5.C7      Accordingly, EEA agreed to employ consultants on terms and conditions
saulsfactory to the Bank to assist EEA in improving its financial administra-
tlon and accounting systems.
B. Financing Plan
5.08      The forecast sources and applications of funds of EEA for the period
1976-80 is given in Annex 23. A condensed version for the Project construction
period 1977-80 is given below:



- 22 -
1977-80
Millions of LE        Z
Capital Expenditure Requirements
(excluding REA's program)                                 921             100
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                   421
Reduction in Working Capital                19
440
Less:  Debt Service                       (197)
Net Internal Cash Generation                           243              26
Contributions from Ministry of
Housing and Reconstruction 1/                           217              24
USAID Grants                                               19               2
Borrowing
Proposed IBRD Loan                       32
Ministry of Finance                     104
USAID Loans                             189
Other Foreign Loans                     117
Total Borrowing                                           442              48
Total Sources of Funds                                    921             100%
5.09      It can be seen from the above table that EEA's investment program
will require about LE 921 million (US$1.4 billion) which is expected to be
financed 26% from internal sources, 26% from contributions and grants and 48%
from borrowing. The financing plan appears to be appropriate. Arrangements
for foreign financing are well advanced and seem assured but the Government
may have difficulty providing its share of the total funds required because
of its current critical shortage of funds and substantial commitments to other
sectors of the economy. Procedures to ensure adequate provision of local
currency by the Government for construction of the Project have been agreed
with the Government (see para 3.10). However, the provision of funds by the
Ministry of Finance for EEA's prograon is not likely to affect the Project
which is being financed separately by REA nor is the Project specifically
dependent on timely completion of plant in EEA's program. Incremental demands
arising from the Project in 1980 represent a small fraction of the increase
for Egypt as a whole.
C. Future Performance
5.10      EEA's future financial position has been estimated in income state-
ments and balance sheets prepared for the years 1976-80 which are shown in
1/   Contributions from Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction are for
rehabilitation of power facilities in the Canal Zone.



23 -
Annexes 21 and 22. The assumptions used in preparing these forecasts are
given in Annex 2/t In the absence of a firm five-year investment p.an and
proper system pla ning, these forecasts have been assembled from data obtained
from various sourEcs within EEA.
5.11      The forecasts have been prepared on the basis that the Government
and the MEE wish to establish EEA as a financially viable public authority
which should attaln a level of earnings which would provide some of i.ts future
expansion needs from internai sources after meeting its operating costs and
debt service obligations. This suDposition is supported by the Council of
Ministers' decision of July 25, 1973, to include a return on total irvested
capital of 3% and the conclusion of the EEA committee studying costs (para
2.26) to recommend that local cost increases be reflected in ZEA's cost
structure and tariffs. It is further confirmed by the covenants t'hat the
Government and EEA have agreed to in the USAID loan agreement for t-he helw7an
Talka gas turbine project dated July 31, 1976. Under the terms of this
agreement EEA have agreed to:
(a) set system-wide tariffs sufficient to produce an annual rate
of return of 9% on average net fixed assets in operation,
appropriately valued and revalued from time to time;
(b) attain a ratio of debt to equity no greater than lo5 to 1; and
(c) meet the targets in (a) and (b) within three years i.e. by
July 31, 1979.
5.12      Critical to EEA's future financial performance is its ao-'lity to
collect overdue electricity accounts and reduce the volume of funds it has
tied up in working capital (para 5.03). EEA is making concerted effo-uts to
collect all overdue accounts. The Government has agreed to take all  measures
on its part to enable EEA to reduce its accounts receivables to not moz3e than
the equivalent of six months sales by March 31, 1978 and not mc::e than three
months sales by December 31, 19780  EEA is to submit to the Bank by the end of
May 1977, a summary of the Goverrmient's plan and steps already undertaken to
achieve the agreed targets.
5013      If its budget estimates and forecast reduction in arovisions fo:f oad
debts are achieved, in 1976 E2A could earn a rate of return of ::C.5% on tihe
existing book values of average znei fixed assets in service. After 19Y6,
net income is expected to decline rapidly again as costs increase especially
salaries and wages, depreciation on new plant, and interest charges on nex^Y
loans including the depreciat-!on and charges relating to the i071 75 construc-
tion by REA which is expected to be t-a.k!en up by EEA at the end of 19760  During
the period 176-80 operat.O costs per unit are expected to increase by about
7%/a.
5.14      At the present time, it is not possible to assess with any accuracy
the impact of revaluation of EEA's accounts (para 5.02). Neither has it been
possible to quantify the savings which might be achieved by converti'ng EEA's
oil-fueled thermal plants to natural gas, improvements in the 50C-kV trans-
mission system and optimization of plant capacity at Aswan. Vae.-efose, for



- 24 -
the purposes~ of: the financial. forecasts tariff increases of 20% in 1978 and
22-1/2% in 1979 whLich would increase tariffs about 50% above present levels
have been azsumed. These would only be sufficient to achieve a 9% rate of
return in .979 oa average net fixed assets at existing value. Tariff increases
of this magnitude would in all likelihood not be sufficient to achieve a 9%
return on a fuily revalued assets base, (para 5.02). EEA has agreed, however,
to complete the valuation of its existing assets and establish a formula
acceptable to the Bank for revaluation of its existing assets by June 30,
1978. EEA has further agreed to submit to the Bank a plan or proposals by
December 31, 1978, for tariff increases or other measures designed to achieve
a 9% rate of return on its average net fixed assets in service after revalua-
tion. Although EEA and the Government agreed with the Bank that a 9% financial
rate of return was a reasonable target for EEA, it was felt in view of EEA's
present financial position, that it may be difficult to achieve in 1979.
However it was understood that the plan to be submitted at the end of 1978
would afford all parties an opportunity to exchange views on the target
for 1979 and consult with USAID and other interested lending institutions
which have agreed similar financial targets for EEA. Thereafter, EEA has
agreed to submit to the Bank by the end of November each year a suitable
financial plan for meeting the 9% rate of return in the following year. Since
the rate of return is intended to measure the financial performance of the
sector it would be calculated on the consolidated accounts of the EEA. These
would include the accounts of distribution companies which the Government is
planning to establish as EEA subsidiaries.
5.15      If the tariff increases assumed were to be adopted, EEA could expect
to be able to finance about 26% of its construction requirements in the years
1977 through 1980. This would enable it to approach the debt/equity ratio
target of 1.5 to 1 (60:40) proposed by USAID. The debt/equity ratio is ex-
pected to improve from 75:25 in 1975 to 67:33 in 1980. After revaluation of
fixed assets, the 60:40 objective could well be achieved. More importantly
from the Bank's viewpoint, the tariff increases assumed would, after 1977,
provide sufficient internal cash generation annually through 1980 to cover
EEA's debt service commitments more than i-1/2 times. To ensure that EEA's
debt to equity ratio continues to improve, and that its borrowing does not
exceed prudent levels, EEA agreed to obtain the Bank's consent to any bor-
rowings it plans to undertake whenever its internal cash generation is not
sufficient to cover its debt service at least 1-1/2 times in any future year.
In calculating amortization of long-term debt, EEA agreed that it would
revalue all foreign debts at the end of each year in accordance with the
current rates of exchange obtainable by the borrower.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.16      EEA prepares financial statements as of December 31 each year.  The
accounts are audited each year by the Government's Central Auditing Organiza-
tion (CAO) whose reports are comprehensive and well documented. EEA's audited
accounts are expected to be presented to the Government by the end of May each
year. EEA agreed to submit its annual financial statements audited by the CAO



- 25 -
or other independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank within six months of
the end of each year and to take appropriate action each year with respect to
matters identified in the auditor's report.
E. Insurance
5.17      EEA insures through a Government-owned insurance corporation to
cover business risks normally covered by Government and public authorities
in Egypt e.g. motor vehicles and stores and materials. It does not, however,
provide insurance coverage against certain business risks normally covered by
public utilities e.g. fire, machinery breakdown and public liability. The
Government and EEA explained that the risks in EEA's operations are widespread
and that provision is made in EEA's annual budgets to meet normal losses
arising from exposure to these risks. In the event of catastrophic losses
EEA, being a 100% government-owned authority, relies on the Government to meet
major losses. Also, EEA agreed to undertake a review of existing safety and
inspection practices for operation and maintenance of power equipment and
facilities through employing consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
Existing Conditions
6.01      Existing distribution facilities in the Project area, as well as in
the rest of Egypt, are run-down and have been operating at overloads for some
time. Lack of financing has prevented much needed modernization and expan-
sion. Service is inadequate and many applications for new connections are
pending in urban and rural areas for lack of distribution system capacity.
Immediate Impact of the Project
6.02      Under the present conditions no additional load growth is possible.
The Project would add the needed system reinforcements to restore adequate
service and allow normal load growth. It would also provide extensions to
eliminate a large backlog of long-waiting service requests.
Load Forecast
6.03      Once the Project facilities begin operations, the load would resume
growth along REA's estimate of 10%/a average rate on total kWh consumption.
Annex 25 shows a forecast of sales generated by the Project of 1,039 GWh by
1989--compared to an estimated figure of 160 GWh in 1980--the first full year
of Project operation. For the Project area, then, the average growth rate is
being estimated at about 23%/a.



- 26 -
Beneficiaries
6.04      The Project would benefit about 6 million people.  At least :30% of
them would be getting electric service for the first time. The Project makes
up about 20% of the National Rural Electrification Plan, a high priority pro-
gram set in motion by the Government in 1971 to improve the lot of 30 million
Egyptians outside Cairo and Alexandria through dependable supply of electricity
for household uses, street lighting, irrigation and drinking water supply, and
agro-industrial use. Abundant electricity first became available with the
start-up of the Aswan High Dam hydro-electric complex and associated trans-
mission system. Through electrification, the Government seeks to help correct
the imbalance in living conditions existing between population in the two
large metropolitan areas and those in smaller urban centers and rural areas.
Bringing them electricity to foster industrialization and creation of jobs
would reverse the present centralization trend and stem migration to the
already hopelessly congested large cities.
Coordinated Development
6.05      The Project would cover 60% of the second five-year installment of
the National Rural Electrification Program--effectively keeping it going-- to
ensure it stays in step with other current regional health, agricultural and
education programs aimed at decentralizing business, political and industrial
activities; thereby inducing a more balanced national development and better
distribution of income.
B. Economif Evaluation
Comparison of Supply Alternatives
6.06      As proposed, the Project would be supplied from the EEA unified
power system. In the case of loads being connected to the central system
for the first time, the alternative would be to supply groups of villages
and hamlets from isolated diesel engine stations. To check whether the
common central supply was the least-cost alternative, a remote zone located
away from existing central system facilities was selected and an analysis
made of the comparative costs of supply to this zone either from the central
system or local, isolated units, over an assumed 25-year life of the distri-
bution facilities. As shown in detail in Annex 26, the supply from the
central system is less expensive at any of the discount rates considered
(6-16%). The present worth of savings with central supply to this zone
would total about LE 1.6 million at a 12% discount rate. Since the selected
zone represents the least favorable situation, it follows that supply from
the central system for the Project is the least-cost alternative.
Household Lighting
6.07      In newly connected households electricity will substitute for
kerosene in residential lighting. An average home uses about 1/2 liter of
kerosene per day for lighting purposes. The corresponding consumption of



- 27 -
substitute electricity has been estimated at 15 kWh per household per month.
A calculation was made of the resource cost savings resulting from the sub-
stitution of elect.::icity for kerosene. At current prices for electricity
LE 12.8 would be sa-ed per household annually (a total of LE 2.1 million/a
by 1989). Deta:R.ls E.e given in Annex 27.  Large benefits are possible due
to fuel savings since by 1980 the incremental fuel of the central system
would be flared gas wfit. a low opportunity cost, while kerosene is expensive.
Internal Economic Return
6.08      The internal econonic rate of return (IER) on the Project is the
discount rate which equalizes the present values of the time-streams of the
attributable costs and benefits over the Project's life, assumed to be 25
years after its completion in 1980.  As shown in Annex 27, the costs include
the Project capital and operea:ing costs, adjusted by shadow pricing unskilled
labor and the opportunity costs of fuel. The associated benefits include
revenues accruing to the municipalities--or distribution companies, as the
case may be--from sales of electricity (at existing tariff rates) through the
Project facilities. Where they could be quantified, resource cost savings
through the substitution of electricity supplied by the Project for alternative
energy sources were taken in lieu of revenues as the measure of benefits. The
IER was estimated to be at least 10.2% for the urban centers and the rural
zones taken together. Separate IER's were also estimated for the urban
centers (at least 12.6%) and for the rural zones (at least 4.2%). These are
minimum values of the rate of return since they are based mostly on sales
revenues and do not take account of unquantifiable benefits such as:
-    resource cost savings in irrigation and drinking water supply
as present diesel-engines and other drives are replaced by
electric motors
-    increased productivity through additional power tools and
equipment
opportunity to promote literacy, population control and
general education through specialized programs during
non-daylight hours
increased security and ease of movement after dark through
street lighting.
6.09      Sensitivity tests indicate the above IER figures would be 8.8%,
11.0% and 3.2% respectively if the volume of estimated sales is reduced by
10%.  SimilarLy, they would be 8.6%, i.1.0% and 3.2% for a 10% increase in
capital cost; 9.8%, 12.4% ;:. 4.0% for a 10% decrease in resource cost savings
through decrease in the price of kerosene; and 9.6%, 12.0% and 3.8% for a 10%
increase in the cost of associated natural gas. The IER's are, therefore,
relatively insensitive to reasonable variations in the main parameters.
Tariff increases, which are not thought to significantly affect demand,
would strongly influence the above figures (e.g. a 20% increase in tariffs
to the Project consumers--corresponding to the tariff increases assumed in
financial forecasts, para 5.14--would increase IER's to 17.8% in the urban
centers and 6.8% in the rural zones).



- 28 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal issues:
(a) Government agreed to ensure that provisions with respect to
establishment of distribution companies will be satisfactory
to the Bank (para 2.14);
(b) EEA agreed to implement 8 training program (para 2.19);
(c) EEA agreed to employ consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to review existing tariffs and
formulate an appropriate tariff structure and rates
(para 2.27);
(d) The Government agreed to establish a special fund (to be
replenished monthly) available to REA sufficient to meet at
least 3 months' expenditures on the Project (para 3.10);
(e) EEA agreed to adopt a system of indicators to monitor its
technical and financial performance while REA agreed to
develop a system to monitor the National Rural Electrifica-
tion Plan by September 30, 1978, which would be implemented
subject to any modifications requested by the Bank (para 3.12);
(f) REA agreed to furnish to the Bank its detailed construction
schedules and any material modifications to them (para 3.13);
(g) REA agreed to provide the Bank with copies of the bid docu-
ments, specifications and contracts relating to the erection
and installation of facilities provided under the Project
(para 3.14);
(h) EEA agreed to employ consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to assist EEA in improving its
financial administration and accounting systems (para 5.07);
(i) Government has agreed to take all measures on its part to
enable EEA to reduce its accounts receivables to not more
than the equivalent of six months sales by March 31, 1978
and not more than three months sales by December 31, 1978
(para 5.12);
(j) EEA agreed to complete the valuation of its existing assets
and establish a formula acceptable to the Bank for revalua-
tion of its existing assets by June 30, 1978 (para 5.14);



- 29 -
(k) EEA agreed to submit to the Bank a plan or proposals by
December 30, 1978 for tariff increases or other measures
designed to achieve a 9% rate of return on its average net
fixed assets in service after revaluation starting in 1979
(para 5.14);
(1) EEA agreed after 1978 to submit to the Bank by the end of
November each year a suitable financial plan for meeting the
9% rate of return in the following year (para 5.14);
(m)  EEA agreed to obtain the Bank's consent to any borrowings it
plans to undertake whenever its internal cash generation is
not sufficient to cover its debt service at least 1-1/2 times
in any future year (para 5.15);
(n) EEA agreed that it would revalue all foreign debt at the end
of each year in accordance with the current rates of exchange
obtainable by the borrower (para 5.15);
(o) EEA agreed to submit its annual financial statements audited
by the CAO or other independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank within 6 months of the end of each year and to take
appropriate action each year with respect to matters identified
in the auditors' report (para 5.16);
(p) EEA agreed to undertake a review of existing safety and in-
spection practices for operation and maintenance of power
equipment and facilities employing consultants on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.17).
7.02      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$48 million to the
Egyptian Electricity Authority with the guarantee of the Government of Egypt.
The standard terms for Bank loans to Egypt of 20 years including 4-1/2 years
of grace are appropriate. The loan could become effective within four months
of loan signing; establishment of the special fund (7.01(e)) and execution of
a subsidiary agreement (para 3.10) would be conditions of effectiveness.
May 24, 1977






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Summary of Findings and Preliminary Recommendations
of Power Sector Survey 1/ by Sanderson & Porter, Inc.
1.   Introduction
1.01      The next several pages present a summary of the findings during
Phase I of the Power Sector Survey. There are two, however, which are con-
sidered to be of particularly outstanding significance since they possess
potentials for great benefits to Egypt's economy for years to come. One of
these relates to the use of associated natural gas which is now being flared
in the Gulf of Suez area and the other to the full utilization of the hydro-
electric potential of the Nile. Each of these has the potential for savings
of many millions of Egyptian pounds for many years in the future. Both are
discussed below and in greater detail in other sections of the report.
2.   Power Sector Energy Policy
2.01      Egypt's principal indigenous energy resources are hydropower,
natural gas, and oil.
2.02      EEA's energy policy should be directed towards harnessing as
rapidly as possible two energy sources where there now is undesirable waste -
the additional hydroelectric potential of the Nile and the associated natural
gas now being flared in the Gulf of Suez oil fields. Afterward other natural
gas resources can be used to free more oil for export and improve Egypt's
position in world trade. National planning over at least the next 20 years
should be based on the use of gas resources to supply domestic needs, leaving
oil available for export.
2.03      To assure optimum use of Egypt's energy resources, it is important
that EEA work closely with the Ministries of Irrigation, Petroleum, and
Industry. Better coordination between the Ministries and their planning
groups at the working level is essential. EEA's planning staff will have
to be strengthened to accomplish the needed results.
2.04      Fuel pricing policies should be examined carefully and choices
of production methods between high and low energy technologies available
to some industries can be of major importance to the Nation's economy.
1/   Issued November 20, 1976.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
2.05      In order to assure optimum use of Egypt's alternative energy
sources, marginal costs of producing and delivering electric energy should
be prepared on a regular basis and supplied to other concerned Ministries
for their planning purposes.
2.06      Regular inter-Ministry planning liaison with regard to the eco-
nomics of supplying large prospective power system loads is needed.
2.07      There may be opportunities for beneficial international coooperation
between Egypt and several other countries in North Africa and the Middle East
who are involved in extensive energy resource development and use programs.
3.   Organization and Management
3.01      EEA was created by Law 12 early in 1976 but the new organization
has not been fully implemented because of the lack of needed by-laws. It is
highly desirable that this situation be corrected as soon as possible.
3.02      EEA is over-organized in some areas and understaffed in others with
a serious need for qualified personnel to whom some of the management respon-
sibilities now assumed by a relatively small number of top officials can be
delegated.
3.03      EEA management realizes the existing personnel problems but is
handicapped by serious shortages of qualified personnel, losses of capable
people to other organizations both within and outside Egypt, and regulations
governing employment, salaries, and promotions.
3.04      It is recommended that an effective management development program
be organized to assist in solving some of the existing personnel problems.
EEA's top management is staffed by a highly qualified group dedicated to their
responsibilities of developing the electric power resources of Egypt, but many
need substantial assistance in order to relieve them of overburdening work-
loads now prevailing.
3.05      The total number of EEA employees is extraordinarily large in terms
of the electric system as compared to electric utilities in some other coun-
tries.
3.06      A high level engineering planning group should be organized and
given the responsibilities for long-range power system planning.
3.07      The Studies, Research, and Projects Sector and the Operations
Sector should be reviewed in terms of responsibilities and organizational
needs.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
4.   System Operations
4.01      The Egyptian Unified Power System includes two large hydroelectric
stations and a number of oil-fired thermal stations. Immediate attention
should be given to the conversion of some of the thermal plants from oil to
natural gas.
4.02      Housekeeping practices should be improved at a number of stations
to reduce fire and safety hazards, improve general appearance, and perhaps
produce better equipment performance in some cases.
4.03      An improved program is needed for the maintenance of metering,
instrumentation, and operational monitoring equipment so that information
needed by operators will be available and reliable especially during times
of system emergency.
4.04      Accurate automatic system frequency control is becoming an increas-
ingly important need of the Unified Power Ssytem, and provision of such a
control system is recommended.
4.05      Establishment of a strong technically oriented central relay,
instrument, and meter laboratory to supplement the existing zone arrangements
is recommended. It would provide specialized expert repair, rehabilitation,
preventive maintenance and calibration of delicate equipment.
4.06      Some EEA Zones now hold regularly scheduled meetings at frequent
intervals with representatives of major customers to discuss power supply,
future requirements, or related questions. This is a commendable practice
and it is recommended that it be adopted in other areas where not already
used. Communication between EEA and its customers and with other governmental
organizations is often a problem and concerted efforts to improve communica-
tions both internally and externally would be helpful in solving many operating
problems.
4.07      Future use of the hydroelectric potential of the Aswan and High Dams
probably offers one of the greatest economic opportunities available to EEA.
To accomplish this requires better coordination with the Ministries of Agri-
culture and Irrigation and also improvements in 500-kV transmission line
performance if optimum benefits are to be achieved. It is urged that these
opportunities be explored promptly.
4.08      Water leaks around sector gates at the High Dam should be corrected
while the loss of water is less significant than it may be in the future.
4.09      More thorough analysis of power system interruptions is recommended
with a view to improving sy -em coordikation, performance, and reliability.
4.10      A number of independent small generating units are still being
installed at industrial plants in Egypt.  Every efort should be made to
meet usual customc- service requirements through service from the Unified
Power System and c.rb the proliferation of small units.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
4.11      Cooling towers now under construction at Karmouz station should be
completed before the hot weather season of 1977 so that more of the plant's
capacity will be usable to meet next year's load requirements.
4.12      Inventories of spare parts on hand and those needed for maintenance
stock are recommended. Also special requirements to restore inoperable
equipment to service should be identified in order to facilitate decisions
as to whether such equipment will be returned to use or permanently retired.
4.13      Shortages of appropriate tools and maintenance equipment have been
reported in some locations and an inventory of these needs is recommended.
4.14      It is suggested that each Power Station and Network Director be
invited to submit a resume of outstanding needs in his area of responsibility
in order that a determination of overall needs and relative priorities can be
made.
5.   System Planning
5.01      Appointment of a System Planning Engineer to the initial Power Sector
Survey Team was delayed four-and-a-half months because of funding limitation.
Consequently the System Planning aspects of the Survey largely remain to be
developed later in the course of the survey work, and the corresponding
section of this report is limited to general observations and comments.
5.02      A relatively large number of new generating units is already commit-
ted or anticipated in the near future. A comprehensive study of future system
plans is recommended to assure adequate coordination between these unit addi-
tions and associated transmission system expansion programs.
5.03      Modifications and improvements of the 500-kV system are needed to
permit reliable transmission of larger amounts of power from the High Dam
to the Cairo and Lower Egypt areas. Significant fuel savings appear to be
the reward for improved line performance and increased transmission capability.
5.04      EEA needs a capable engineering section to do long-range planning
and develop an orderly system expansion program for meeting future load
growth requirements.
5.05      An adequate load reporting and forecasting system should be devel-
oped to meet the specific needs of EEA for system planning purposes.
5.06      The option of providing hydroelectric generating facilities at
the existing Nile barrages should be examined immediately. The usefulness
of such capacity seems promising and any work to accomplish it should be
included in the projects for rehabilitation and improvement of the existing
civil works.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
6.   Distribut_on
6.01      The Powe-: Sector Survey Team's responsibility with respect to dis-
tribution systems and problems is limited to coordination of the Power Survey
with distribution studies which are to be carried out separately. Such co-
ordination will be made with the studies planned for Cairo, Alexandria and
two other provincial capitals and expected to be started in 1977.
7.   Accounting and Finance
7.01      The national standard accounting system, by which EEA is now limited,
should be supplemented by accounting practices adapted especially to public
utility operations in order to i'mprove cost control and management information.
7.02      The Operating Budget should be subdivided for more significant com-
parisons with actual results, and emphasis should be given to controllable
expenses.
7.03      Headquarters should exercise stronger leadership in coordination and
supervision of Zonal accounting practices, and eliminate bottlenecks delaying
prompt reporting of accounting and cost data.
7.04      Financial reports should be made more useful to operating management.
7.05      Supplementary Management Information reports should be expanded to
meet needs of operating management and provide performance indicators for key
management functions, not limited to technical functions.
7.06      Commercial operations should recognize the need for marketing and
customer relations, especially services for large industrial consumers and for
prospective consumers.
7.07      Revenue analysis should be reinforced to develop more complete
analysis of consumption patterns for revenue forecasting and tariff planning.
7.08      Mechanization of commercial accounting should be coordinated on
system-wide basis for eventual integration with other data processing require-
ments in large volume.
7.09      Long overdue delinquent accounts should be settled as quickly as
possible and management of collections strengthetied in order to minimize
delinquencies in all categories.
7.10      Cost analysis and reporting should be standardized and given higher
priority, so that significant results can be made available in time for effec-
tive follow-up.
7.1U      Losses of energy not billed should be analyzed at all levels and
avoidable losses minimized especially at distribution levels.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
7.12      Fixed asset property accounting records should be improved, possibly
requiring a physical inventory for transfers of properties and determination
of a base for measuring return.
7.13      Planning should be started for uniform coding and eventual com-
puterization of large volume processing functions, already begun in several
isolated cases.
7.14      Performance measurement factors should be developed as a guide for
management at all levels.
8.   Tariffs
8.01      The marginal cost of producing electric energy should provide the
basis for establishing EEA's electricity tariffs, and the calculation of mar-
ginal cost should include not only the total costs of facilities including
financing charges but should take into account also both the domestic and
international prices of fuels.
8.02      Government policy is for all industry to pay the full cost of energy
consumed, calculated at domestic prices. Further industries producing for
export should pay a supplement to cover the full export value of fuel embodied
in that part of its operations. Marginal costs are not yet fully reflected
in EEA tariffs and should therefore be furnished periodically as appropriate
to other concerned industries for their planning purposes. The marginal cost
calculations should provide figures at both the prevailing domestic price and
the export value on "opportunity cost" of the fuel. As also suggested in the
Energy Resources and Policy Section, there should be regular inter-Ministry
planning liaison with regard to large prospective loads, total costs of supply
including transmission, conditions of service, and other relevant factors.
8.03      EEA's cost estimating guidelines require it to take into account all
costs, depreciation and actual interest payments on loans, plus a return of
three percent on the value of its invested capital. If assets are undervalued,
the cost calculation and therefore the tariffs derived from them will not
produce sufficient funds for replacement of those assets. A December 1972
study valued EEA's assets at LE 420 million, equivalent to $630 million at
today's "parallel market" exchange rate. Replacement value of EEA's 3845 MW
generating capacity plus transmission and distribution systems might approxi-
mate $4 billion. 1/
8.04      EEA receives residual fuel oil (and natural gas) not at oil's export
price or "opportunity cost" of $60 per metric ton but at a subsidized price
equivalent to $11.25 per ton at the "parallel market" exchange rate of LE 1.00
equals $1.50.
1/   This figure represents the opinion of the consultant and not necessarily
that of the Bank.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
8.05      An example calculation based on current estimates of costs for
construction and operation of a new 2 x 150 MW steam power plant shows pro-
duction costs of 2.16 U.S. cents/kWh for the higher fuel price and 1.14
cents/kWh for the lower.
8.06      EEA's average billing rate was 9 milliemes/kWh in 1975.  This pro-
vides relatively low revenues in terms of replacement values or assets.
Furthermore, current investments in new facilities will force tariffs upward.
If EEA were required to pay the export price for its fuel oil, the tariff
structure would also have to undergo a sharp increase.
8.07      While all consumer sectors are being charged rates below the mar-
ginal economic cost of producing and delivering electricity, the lowest rates
and greatest disparities are in the industrial sector. Appropriate adjust-
ments should be considered to help support the high marginal costs of new
facilities being added to the UPS and to assure the financial solvency of EEA.
Some of the aluminum and fertilizer operations are analyzed in Section VII
of this report as examples of the need to reexamine the tariff structures and
seek more equitable bases for power supply to these types of consumers.
9.   Training
9.01      During Phase I of the Power Sector Survey, it has been impossible
to accomplish any significant training of national counterparts who are upper
management people with responsibilities and work loads that preclude much
attention to day-to-day work of the Survey Team. It is recommended that EEA
consider whether some changes in assignments are desired so that more training
through work association will be possible during the remainder of the project.
9.02      It is recommended that ways be explored to better utilize the
facilities of the technical training institute at Cairo South station.
9.03      It is recommended that short courses for further education and
development of technical employees be organized. It appears that there are
engineers within existing employee ranks who are qualified to serve as part-
time instructors for courses of this nature. Along the same line, selected
courses from local university curricula may offer opportunities for further
development of interested employees.
May 1977



EGYPT
MINISTRY OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
____________    _____________LEGAL  ADVISOR
IHIGHER COUNCIL OF
ELECTRICITY SECTOR
I  NER-SECRETARY OF STAlE       FIRST UNDER-SECRETARY        IUNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR MINISTER'S OFFICE                OF STATE ||FOR CORPORATIONSIAUTHORITIES
|EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY   URAL ELECTRIFICATION1  INUCLEAR POWER PLAN      QATTARA DEPRESSION
AUTHORITY              AUTHORITY      I  I    AUTHORITY                AUTHORITY
I  GENERAL (COMPANY FOR       HIGH DAM COMPANY FOR  |        GENERAL COMPANY FOR   I  I    EGYPTIAN ELECTRIC
ELE CTRICAL PROJECTS       PLC ROJC TSAN           MECHANICLEETICAL PROECT    I           TRANSFORMER COMPAN
Iay 1977                     WIld PROJECTS                      MECHANICAL PROJECTS IL
World Bank- 16892
May 1977



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
|OBOARD OF DIRECIORS
NSWCRETARY TO 8                         CFIAIRMAN
DEPUTY CHAIRMAN
TRAINING~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNNN -
_  DIRECTOR                       ECONiOMli &                                              DIRECTOR                          DISC                                DiNEC
MANPOWER                                                                   C        FINANCIAL  OPERATIONS                                                      RESEARCH &
t AFFAIRS                                    G                                                                            PROJECTS
_PERSONNEL                            STORES..I-
INDUSTRIAL SECUARLY            -FINANCIAL                           E  A                     ALEADRIACAIR
-ADMINISTRATIVE                  -COMMERCIAL                                  OPERATIONS|                      DiSPATCHING                            POETS                            &
-MANPOWER                           ECONOMIC STUDIFS                Z                           ZONZRESEARCH
-TRAINING               .              REEAC
_TRAINING INSTITUTE                                                         -  POWER STATIONS                 _CENTRAL DISPATCH                          W PWR STATfONS           _POWER STATIONS
_ NETWORK                        _COMMUNiCATIONS & DISPAICH           -NETWORK                      -NETWORK
-  CHEMICAL LABORATORY          _RELAYs & MEASURING INSTRLIMENTS   -CIVIL WORKS                     -ELECIRICAL
- REMOTE GOVERNORATES            _COMPUTERS                            _PURCtHASING & CONTRACTS
-EMERGENCY
{  CANAL    |   |   UF P1 R    | ~ ~ ~ DE 1 TA m                      LXANDRA || CAIRO
|   ZONiE |           g   Et)       l             L   ZON           ZONE
May  1977                                                                                                                                            Woild Bank- W6894



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Summary of Law Establishing EEA
1.        Law No. 12 of 1976 establishing "The Egyptian Electric Power
Authority" was ratified by the People's Assembly on January 18, 1976.
Legal Existence
2.        The Authority is a legal entity affiliated with the Ministry of
Electricity and Energy. Its head office is in Cairo.
Functions
3.        EEA's functions are:
(a) Implementing generation, transmission and distribution Projects.
(b) Management, operation and maintenance of power stations.
(c) Regulation of loads on the main networks throughout Egypt.
(d) Distribution and sale of electric power throughout Egypt.
(e) Studies and Research.
Capital and Sources of Funds
4.        The Authority's capital comprises the funds of the General Eyptian
Electricity Corporation (GEEC) and funds appropriated by the State. Its
revenues and sources of funds are proceeds of sales of electricity, Govern-
ment subsidies, funds appropriated by the State, proceeds of works and ser-
vices, Government loans, credit facilities, donations and grants.
Budget
5.        The Authority has its own budget unrestricted by the laws governing
preparation of the State Budget. Any budget surplus can be carried forward
from year to year.
Interest Rates on Government Loans
6.        The Council of Ministers sets the interest rate on Government loans.
Capacity to Contract
7.        The Authority can enter into contracts with individual companies,
banks and local and foreign organizations for purposes for which it was
established.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Importation of Goods
8.        The Authority can import its requirements without permits or re-
strictions by laws and regulations governing importation or foreign currency.
Imports for its projects are exempt from customs duties and taxes.
Board of Directors
9.        The Chairman and his salary are determined by Republican decree.
Members of the Board are appointed by Order of the Prime Minister on the
recommendation of the Minister of Electricty and Energy. The Board is re-
sponsible for the management of the Authority's affairs. It approves the
Authority's regulatory structure and prepares electricity tariff proposals
which are approved by the Higher Council of the Ministry of Electricity and
Energy and the Council of Ministers.
The Board also has the discretion to:
(a) Approve the Authority's draft annual budget and balance sheet.
(b) Make budget transfers from one item to another.
(c) Lay down the Authority's internal regulations.
(d) Frame personnel allowances.
(e) Propose contracting for loans.
(f) Accept donations and grants.
(g) Review progress and financial reports.
(h) Review any items submitted by the Chairman or the Minister.
10.       All the Board's resolutions are communicated to the Minister by
the Chairman within 3 days. They become enforceable unless the Minister
objects to them in writing within 30 days.
Chairman
ll.       The Chairman's duties include:
(a) Execution of the Board's resolutions.
(b) Managing the Authority.
(c) Supplying the Minister and State bodies with information
they request.
(d) Representing the Authority in the courts.
Statutes
12.       The Authority's statutes are to be issued within 6 months of the
date of publication of this law in the official gazette. They will take
into consideration:



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
(a) Linking wages to productivity.
(b) Maximum pay scales related to Government's civil servants.
(c) Incentive bonuses and allowances should not be greater than
double the salaries set.
(d) Main principles of the social insurance scheme (Law 79 of 1975).
(e) Travelling allowances and expenses should not exceed the
actual expenses incurred.
(f) Adoption of the rules of the standard accounting system.
(g) Direct operations should only be entrusted to foreign firms
or international experts with the approval of the Minister.
(h) The most up-to-date supply rules.
Personnel
The GEEC personnel are transferred to the Authority without any
further measure.
May 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Training
Introduction
1.        The electric power sector has been well provided in the past with
training assistance from both bilateral and multilateral sources. As a result,
excellent facilities exist for the training and re-training of technical staff
at all levels. However, these facilities are underutilized because of:
(a) a shortage of trained instructors;
(b) lack of living accommodation for trainees, necessitating
their finding temporary accommodation in Cairo and commuting
to the Training Centers; and
(c) an unwillingness, on the part of management in Zones away
from Cairo, to release staff to attend training or re-training
courses.
Measures are included in the Project to overcome these problems.
2.        The training of financial and commercial staff has been neglected,
although short orientation courses for meter readers and supervisors are con-
ducted occasionally in EEA headquarters. There is a need to introduce regular
training courses to meet the needs of the Departments of Financial and Com-
mercial Affairs at all levels, and provisions are made in the Project to
enable EEA to achieve this.
3.        Finally, the future success of EEA's manpower development efforts
will depend on the strenga. of the training organization within the EEA.
At present, the key position of Director General of Training is vacant, and
it is necessary to ensure that when the post is filled, the incumbent is aware
of the requirements and is able to carry them out. Technical assistance is
provided in the Project aimed at establishing a dynamic organization capable
of meeting the training needs of the sector in the long term.
The Institute of Engineers (Cairo South)
4.        This Training Center, located on the site of the Cairo South thermal
generating station, was established between 1967 and 1973 through a UNDP-
financed ILO project, the original objectives of which were:



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
(a) to establish orientation and upgrading courses for
graduate engineers;
(b) to establish a pilot training program for field staff
engaged in rural electrification projects; and
(c) to set up instructor-training courses.
5.        During the life time of the Project, (b) and (c) were dropped, the
first due to implementation problems, and the second because it became the
intention to train instructors at a centralized Instructor Training Institute
(ITI) in Cairo. This plan failed to materialize, when the ITI was taken over
entirely for the training of military personnel, and no arrangements for
instructor training were made as an alternative; an eventuality which has
resulted in the present serious shortage of trained instructors mentioned in
para. l(a).
6.        Excellent facilities and courses were established by the ILO team,
however, in the following fields:
(a) thermal power plants and turbines;
(b) switchgear and protection;
(c) telemetering and instrumentation;
(d) transmission and distribution;
(e) load dispatching;
and the associated laboratories, workshops and classrooms are capable of
handling a throughput of about 800 engineers per year for orientation and up-
grading training. Becauise of the reasons listed in para. 1, however, only
273 engineers attended the Center during 1976.
The Training Center for Mechanical/Electrical Skilled Workers and
Technicians (Cairo North)
7.        This facility, located adjacent to the site of the Cniro North
thermal generating station, was established through Russian aid it] l973.
Here, too, excellent workshops, laboratory and classroom facilities exist
for the training of middle and lower level technical staff in the following
fields:
(a) repair and installation of transformers and electrical
machines;
(b) repair and installation of substation switchgear;
(c) repair of relays and control devices;
(d) village electrification;
(e) repair of measuring instruments;



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
(f) jointing of underground cables;
(g) operation and repair of low and medium voltage distribution
systems;
(h) water treatment;
(i) general machining, welding and sheetmetal work.
8.        In spite of the fact that the facilities could take about 3,000
trainees per year, only 900 passed through during 1976, the reasons for
this underutilization being the same as those affecting the Cairo South
Institute. An additional problem faced by this Center, however, is the
lack of spare parts for the Russian equipment, but this could be largely
overcome by more forceful management of the Center, either through direct
procurement or by making the more simple parts locally.
Financial, Commercial and Management Training
9.        The need for the EEA to improve the effectiveness of its middle
and top management, through a series of seminars and training workshops, is
being taken care of through a program financed by American assistance. There
remains, however, the need to introduce both short orientation courses for
all new staff in the financial and commercial departments, and upgrading
courses for existing staff, aimed at improving their job performance.
The Training Component of the Project
10.       A total of 9 man-years of technical assistance will be provided
to the EEA as follows:
(a) A Training Adviser for 3 man-years who would act in the
vacant post of Director General of Training. His duties
would include:
(i) advising the Inspector General of Manpower in the
EEA on all matters related to recruitment, training
and manpower development;
(ii) establishing links with management in the Zones to
stimulate their cooperation in nominating and re-
leasing staff to attend training courses conducted
in the two Training Centers;
(iii) reviewing the suitability of existing courses against
the present needs, and introducing changes, as re-
quired;



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
(iv) providing technical leadership to the instructional
staff at the Training Centers, and particularly to
the Directors of the Centers, so as to improve their
managerial effectiveness;
(v) assisting the EEA in identifying a local incumbent
for the post of Director General of Training, and
ensuring that he is in every way capable of taking
over the responsibilities on completion of the
technical assistance input.
(b)  An instructor Training Specialist for three years to set up
and conduct training courses for EEA staff selected to be
re-trained as instructors. The courses would be installed
at the Cairo South Institute for Engineers, but will meet
the needs for instructors at both the Training Centers,
including those needed for the planned courses for finan-
cial and commercial staff.
(c)  A Specialist in the training of financial and commercial
staff for three years. His duties will include close liaison
with management in the Zones through the Training Adviser,
and with the Directors General of the Financial and Commercial
Departments of the EEA, so as to accurately identify the
training needs in these areas, and to prepare and conduct
training courses accordingly.
11.       Dormitocy-type living accommodation, together with associated
cafeteria and ablution facilities for 100 trainees is badly needed at both
Training Centers. This would encourage managers to nominate trainees from
the Zones rather than have them face the almost impossible task of finding
temporary lodgings in Cairo and commuting daily to the Centers.
12.       A new building would be required on the Cairo South site, and
adequate space is available. At Cairo North, it would be possible to re-
habilitate existing buildings and provide only minor additions.
13.       There is a marked shortage of wall charts, cutaway models and
other training materials in both the Centers. Funds are provided in the
Project to make up this deficiency and thus improve the effectiveness of
the training programs.
14.       In order to ensure a continuous replacement of instructors lost
by attritioi- or transfer within the organization, it will be necessary for
selected Eg- ;.an instructors to take over the instructor-training role when
the technic;  assistance input e..ds.  Provisions are made in the Project for
up to 18 man-montlhs of overseas training for these instructor-trainers.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
Training Costs
15.       The estimated foreign cost of the training component is as follows:
(a)  Technical Assistance                                       US$
108 man-months at an estimated $6,000 per month          648,000
(b) Foreign exchange component of civil works required
to provide the necessary living accommodation for
100 trainees at both Training Centers (40% of
total cost)                                             400,000
(c)  Audio visual and didactic materials                      50,000
(d) 18 man-months of overseas training for Egyptian
instructor-trainers at $3,000 per month                  54,000
Total    $1,152,000
May 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Egyptian Electricity Authority Tariffs
High Tension/Industrial Consumers
132 kV and 220 kV                          -   5.072 milliemes/kWh 1/
11 kV, 33 kV and 66 kV                     -   6.464 milliemes/kWh 2/
Medium Voltage/Industrial Consumers 5/
Consumers below 11-kV contracting for more than 500 kW are charged
as follows:
(1)  Fixed Annual Demand Charge            -   LE 5.62/kW
(2)  Energy Charge 3/
first 1,000 hours/year              -   10.103 milliemes/kWh
next    500   "    "                -    9.503
"   1,000   "    "                -    8.303      "      "
"   1,000   "    "                -    7.103      "      "
"   1,500   "                     -    5.403      "      "
excess over 5,000  "                -    4.603
Medium Voltage Consumers
Consumers below 11-kV contracting for between 8-kW and 500-kW.
Energy Charge only 4/
first  70,000 kWh                     -   20.347 milliemes/kWh
next  100,000 kWh                     -   16.647 milliemes/kWh
excess over 170,000 kWh               -   15.847 milliemes/kWh
1/   Includes a fuel factor of 1.257 milliemes/kWh )  fuel factors are
2/       "    "  "      "        1.306             "  ) set arbitrarily
3/       "    "  "               2.998             "  ) by Government
4/       "    "                  1.947      i      "
5/   Hours of demand schedule shown for energy charge apply to public sector
industries; private sector have the same rates applied to lower hours
of demand; ranging from 750 hours at the first step to 3,000 hours for
the sixth step.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Commercial and Small Shops 6/
Consumers using a 380-volt service where installed capacity is
below 625 KVA.
first 45 kWh                          -   22.347 milliemes/kWh
excess over 45 kWh                    -   18.947 milliemes/kWh
Residential Consumers 7/
first 45 kWh                          -   16.5 milliemes/kWh
excess over 45 kWh                    -   10.0 milliemes/kWh
Municipalites 8/
Bulk Supply - 9 milliemes per kWh plus 1.5 milliemes for
operation and maintenance.
6/   These rates not yet being applied.  Old rates which are still being
applied range from:
Daylight hours      (first 200 hours/year       16.0 milliemes/kWh
(2300 to 1700)      (to over 2000 hours/year   7.7 milliemes/kWh
Night rates         (first 400 hours/year       24.1 milliemes/kWh
(to over 1000 hours/year  11.6 milliemes/kWh
7/   Residential consumers in Cairo and Alexandria are charged a stamp tax
of 5 milliemes/kWh on all consumption and a radio license fee of 2
milliemes/kWh on the first 45 kWh sold. These taxes are collected
by EEA and paid to the Government.
8/   Residential consumers in the municipalities beyond Cairo and Alexandria
also pay these same taxes except the radio license fee is only I millieme.
Industrial consumers with less than 625 kVA pay a fixed rate of 15.2
' lliemes/kWh.
May 1977



APPRAISAL 0F A nGICUAL IWTWZCATIOI MOWET
EGYPT
SSYPTOIA IZETRXCm AUISZZ!
-Intatslsd and Available OGneratiog Caaiiy emS fak Dead(1976-1965)
Installed Generation                                              AvaSlabsb1GASr5tin Casaity~                       18
Number sand Rating of Units             Ttl             1976    19,77    1982___83                                              184      16
2. Steam Stations
a. hi1sting
1.  Cairo West               3 a87                                  261              230      230      230      230      230      230      230      23C      230      230-
2.  Cairo S-oti              4    60                                24o              1SO      1So      i8o      1So      1So      i8o      120      120      120      120
3.  CairoNorth               2x30 n1nx20o~ 2 010                    100               6o       60       60       30       -        -        -        -        - 
4. Tibbio                    3xl5                                    45               28       28       28       28       28       28       28       -        -        -
5.  Toikha                   3n12.5 o3 x30                          127              127      127.     127      127      127       90       90       90       90       90
6.  D=mnhr2xa15 ,- 3 a 65                                           225              210      210      210      210      210      210      210      21C      210      210
7.  Siuf                     2xa26.5 +2 o 30                        113              100      100      100      100      1.00     100      100      boC      100      100
8.  Kranoo                   4.i6                                    64               30       30       15       15       15       -        -        -        -        -
9. A  syout                   3x30                                   9060                      60       60       60       60       60       60       60       60       60
Total Exinting                                            1L 65            1.025   1.025   1.010        98       950      898      838      8io      Bo       810
b.  Planned or ter e 2
Cnnt_uctioa1976_1982)g/
1.  Itfr E1 Savar            2xo110                                "20220                              220      220      220      290      220      220      22       220
2.  CIro West REpanaion   1xa87                                      87                                          87       87       87       87       87       87       87
3.  Abu Qir I                2x0150                                 300                                                  300      300      300      300      300      300
4.  AbuoQir 11               2o150                                  300                                                  300      300      300      300      300      300
5.  Suez I                   2x150                                  300                                                           300      300      300      300      300
6.  I smoilta                2 o150                                  300                                                                   300      300      300      300
7.  Suen II                  20150                                  300                                                                                      300      300
8.  Plant "2"               1Ia300                                  300                                                                                               300
New Steam                                                  2,102                      22090220          fl                         507 aPZ    J   j  807~  d2L.0
r.Total Steam Plant                                                  3.372           1.025   1.245   1.230   1.287   jf857   2 j0    2.345   2.a17   2.617   2.917
C.Gas Turbine Stations
1.Existing
l.  Me.                      2a14                                    28               13       13       13       13       13       13       13       13       13       13
2. oe                        1x17                                    17               17       17       17       17       17       17       17       17       17       17
3.  SI$ailia.                1x20                                    20               20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20
L.  Port Said                2x20                                     40              4o       40       4o       40       40       4o       40       40       40       40
Total Exiating                                               1590                       90       90       90       90       90       90       90       90       90
b. Pilnosdor Under
Constrocti-n
1.  El faynm                 laS0                                    20              -         20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20
2.  AboEl-Matamir            1x20                                    20              -         20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20
3.  CairoNorth                bOO0                                   20                        20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20
4.  Helasan                  4xa30                                  120              -        120      120      120      120      120      120      120      120      120
5.  Ta1kha                   6nx30                                  i80              -180                       1So      160      i8o      180      180      i8o      18o
6.  Plant "C"                 4o 30                                -120-                      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        120      120
Total Sex Plant                                              483                       180     36       360      360       360     360       3605  JjQ       41o
o.Total Gas Turbine Plant                                              58                g      27    40  450          450      450      4     5o0s    450     570      570
ITT.  Ijydro Stations
a. xCisting
1.  Asaa,a  Son              7 x 46+ 2 n 11.5                        345             250      230      250      250      250      250      250      250      250      250
2.  H11gb Dao               12 x 173                              2.100            1 050   1.050   1.150   1.250   1 250   1.350    1,050   1.200   1.530   1.530
Total Existing-                                            2.445           1300   1.300   1400   1.500   1.500   1.60    1.7-             100 1J22    8oo    1 800
b.  Planned or Udr
Costocin3/
C.  Total Hydro Plant                                                  2,445            1,300   1.300   1,400   1.500   1.500   1.600   1.700   1o 80             Ac 80    S oo
IV.  Total G.earatiac Plant                                                                  2.415   2.8153 .280  3,3    3,807   4.155   4.495   4,567   4,987   5.287
V.  Peak felanod                                                                            2.0    2.0    2,470   2  800   3.130   3.350   3.600   3  903)  4.200   4.500
VI.  Morgin (Deficit),                                                                         415      615      61o      437      677      80       895      667      787       787
do  P.eret +f Peak Dlegod                                                                  20.8     27.9    24.7    15.6    21.6    24.0    24.9    07.1    18.7    17.5
1/  Redaction  iadictss retiremeot of omits after 25 yrear  of service.  Na speradig.
of entailin   capability thraougb    i       .i aslrmmss   anned. .
2/  B .sed on projected capability attaiable with fall HighOf raasra,ir a=s, exsisting spate
aperatiag limitations are overcame.
3/  A project to utilise tbe 70s bead along tbe Rile betwee  Ave.m sad the se  by building
power atatiama at three existing barrages and foort ne barragea is at present under
stody by the Mimitrnies of Electricity sand Irrigation. Total additional capacity
woold ba 635 MWf and 4.7 billion kWh p.a.
SOURCES:  Mission estimates tram data abtaloed from  EA and Poaer Rentar Ru--nny, Phase I
igotcReport by Sandersos & Porter, la..., ReNo-br 1926.
May 1977



ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OP A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
tONIFIED PUnER SYSTEM
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHGRITY
Available Generation - 1976-1985
(GWh)
DESCRIPTION                                             1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983         4      1985
I. Steas Stationi'
a. EWiting
1. Cairo West                                  1,610     1,610     1,61o     1,61o     1,610     i,61o     i,61o      1,610     1,61o     1,610
2. Cairo South                                 1,260     1,260     1,26o     1,26o     1,260     1,260       810        84o       840       84o
3. Cairo North                                   420       420       420       210
4. Tibbin                                        196       196       196       196       196       196       196
5. Talkha                                        889       889       889       889       889       630       630       630        630       630
6. Daaanuhr                                    1,470     1,470     1,470     1,470     1,470     1,470     1,470     1,470      1,470     1,470
7. Siun                                          700       700       700       700       700       700       700        700       700       700
8. Karmouz                                       210       210       105       105       105
9. Assyout                                       420       42o       420       420       420       420       420       420        420       o20
Total Existing                     7,175    7175       7070      6,860     6,650     6,286     5,666     5,670      5.670     5,670
b. Planned or Under Construction
1.  KaEr El DSvar                                        1,54o     1,540     1,54o     1,540     1,540     1,540     1,540      1,54o     1,540
2. Cairo West Expansion                                                        609       609       609       609        609       609       609
3. Abu Qir I                                                                           2,100     2,100     2,100     2,100      2,100     2,100
4. Abu Qir IT                                                                                    2,100     2,100      2,100     2,100     2,100
5. Suez I                                                                                        2,100     2,100     2,100      2,100     2,100
6. Ismialia                                                                                                 2,100     2,100     2,100     2,100
7. Suez II                                                                                                                      2,100     2,100
8. Plant "X"                                                                                                                              2,100
Total New Steam                              1,540     1,540     2,149     4,249     8,449    10,549    10,549    12,649    14,749
c. Total Stemn Plant                               7.175     8.715     u,610     9,009    10.899    14.735    16,415    16,219    18,319    20,419
II. Gas Turbine Stations 2
a. Existing
1. Mex                                            39        39        39        39        39        39         39        39        39        39
2. Suez                                           51        51        51        51        51        51        51         51        51        51
3. Ismailia                                       6o        6i        6o        6o        6o        6o        6o         60        6o        60
4. Port Said                                     120       120       120       120       120       120       120        120       120       120
Total Ela.ting                       270       270       270       270       270       270       270        270       270       270
b. Planned or Under Construction
1. El Fayun                                                 6o        6o        6o        6o        6o        60         6o        6o        6o
2. Abu El Matamir                                           6o        6o        6o        60        6o        60         6o        6o        6o
3. Cairo North                                              6o        6o        6o        6o        6o        6o        6o         6o        6o
4. Helvan                                                  360       360       360       360       360       360        360       360       360
5. Tolsha                                                                      540       54o       54o       54o        5o        54o       54o
6. Plant "' Y      36o                                                                                                                 361
Total New Plea                                 540       54      1,080     1,t80     1,080     1,080      1,080     1,440     ik4o
0. Total Gas Tarbine Plant                           270       810        810    1,350     1,350     1,350      1,350     1,350     1,710     1,710
III. Hydro Stationa2'
a. ExIsting
1  Aswan
2. High Din
Total Existing                     9,000    10,000    11,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
b. Planned or Under Construction-/
IV. Total Available                                    _644      19,525    20,420   22,359    24,349   RS.005    29,765    29,569         ,029    34,129
4 Based on 7,000 hour average yearly operation. Reduction ahovn to reflect schaduled retirement
of old plant.
J  Based on 3,000 hours average Yearly operation.
3/ Rased a projected caPability attainable with full High Dam reservoir once existing system
operating limitations are overcome.
4/ A project to utilize the 70m head slong the Nile between A-wan and the sea by building power
stations at three existing barrages and four new barrages is at present under study by the
Winiatriea of Electricity and Irrigation. Total additioal capacity would be635 MNW and 4.7 billion kWh.
SOURCE: Mission astiates fram data obtained from EEA and Power Sector Survey Phase I Diagnostic
Report by Saederean & Parter, Inc. Novemeber 1976.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Projected Daily and Annual Energy Consumption,
Peak Load and Load Factors for the Years 1975-2000
1975     1976     1977     1978     1979     1980     1981     1982     1983      1984     1985     1990     1995     2000
1. Daily consumption,
GWh
1.1. Ordinary loads                     18.5    21.4      23.5    25.8    28.4    31.2         34.3    37.8    41.5       45.6    50.2      79.0   108.2   148.2
1.2. Canal Area loads                             0.5      1.0      1.5      2.0      2.5      3.0       3.5      4.o      4.5      4.8      7.6     10.4    14.2
1.3. Heavy Industrial loads,
existing, under cons-
truction or contracted
for:
1.3.1. Fertilizer (KIMA)          5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5
1.3.2. Aluminium                  2.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5
1.3.3. Iron & Steel               4.4      4.4      4.4      4.4      4.4      4.4       4.4               4.4      4.4      4.4      4.4      4.4       4.4
1.3.4. Oil Pipelines                       3.0      3.6      5.4      5.4       5.4      5.4      5.4      5.4      5.4      5.4      5.4      5.4       5.4
1.4. Heavy Industrial Loads, beyond
1977                                                         4.3      8.6       8.6      8.6     17.2     17.2    17.2    17.2    49.4    73.9   io4.8
1.5. Total daily consumption            30.9    40.3    43.5    52.4    59.8    63.1    66.7    74.9             83.5    88.1    93.0   156.8   213.3   288.0
2. Annual consumption,
103 GWh                                  9.8     13.8    15.2      18.1    20.8      21.9      23.1     27.3     28.7     30.3     32.0    54.6    74.3   100.3
3. Daily Load Factor                         0.733    0.819    o.806    o.824    0.817    0.809    0.800    0.806    0.800    0.798    0.799    0.780    0.780    0.780
4. Annual Load Factor                        0.631    o.768    0.771    0.780    0.774    0.769    0.764    0.760    0.753    0.752    0.753    o.744    0.744    0.744
5. Maximum System Load, UW                   1770     2050     2250     2650     3050     3250      3450     41oo     4350     4600     4850      8380     11400    15390
SOURCE: Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA)                                                                                                                                   L
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Comparison of Forecasts of Energy and Maximnum Demand
2/                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~3/
Egypt forecast 1/                   Aoki forecast -           Base data used for WASP Program -
Energy        Load factor      Max. demand          Energy           Energy        Load factor         Max. demand
Year        (GWh)              (                 (MW)            (GWh)           (GWh)                                 (MW)
1978         18,500            71.6           2,950                             18,408.2            71.9              2,923
1979         19,600            72.8           3,073                             19,504.0            71.9              3,097
1980         20,700            72.8           3,246              20,700         20,669.0            71.9              3,282
, 1981          21,800            72.2           3,447                             22,136.4           71.9              3,516
0 1982          23,000            73.0           3,597                             23,717.1           70.9               3,766
h 1983          24,905            71.6           3,972                             25,426.7           69.7               4,091
P  1984         26,966            70.2           4,387                             27,156.5            68.8              4,445
X 1985          29,200            68.8           4,845              29,200         29,124.8           67.8               4,831
T 1986          32,116            67.8           5,407                             32,053.1            66.9              5,392
co 1987         35,324            66.8           6,034                             35,263.0            65.9              6,019
1988         38,851            65.9           6,732                             38,819.0            65.0              6,720
1989         42,732            64.9            7,513                             42,710.8           64.o              7,505
1ggo         47,000            64.o           8,383              47,000          47,001.9           64.o              8,383
1991         51,185            63.8            9,158                             49,984.8           64.o              8,914
1992         55,743            63.8           9,974                              53,141.4           64.o              9,479
1993         60,707            63.8          10,862                              56,516.7           64.o             10,080
1994         66,113            63.8           11,829                             60,093.9           64.o             10,719
1995         72,000            63.8           12,883              63,900         63,906.5           64.o             11,395
1996         78,369            63.8          14,022                              67,864.8           64.o             12,104
1997         85,301            63.8           15,263                             72,064.4           64.o             12,853
1998         92,847            63.8          16,613                              76,533.0           64.o             13,650
1999        101,060            63.8           18,082                             81,276.3           64.o             14,495
2000        110,000            63.8          19,682               85,300         86,305.7           64.o             15,393
1/ Prepared by the General Egyptian Electricity Corporation (GEEC), forerunner of EEA.
2/H. Aoki, Consultant.I
3/ Wien Automatic System Planning Program (WASP).
SOURCE: Market Survey for Nuclear Power in Developing Countries, International Atomic Energy
Agency, Vienna, September 1973.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Large Industrial Electrical Loads in Egypt, 1974-1985
(in Megawatts)
Industry               Location               1974       1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985
Iron & Steel
Integrated Mill        Tebbin 1                  52         64        64        64         64        64         64        64        64         64        64         64
(1.5 Mill. Tons)       Tebbin 2                  49         70        70        72         72        72         72        72        72         72        72         72
( "   "    "  )        Helwan                    52         62        63        63         63        63         63        63        63         63        63         63
*Sponge Iron            Alexandria                                                                               30        60         60        60        60         60
*Sponge Iron            Sadat City                                                                                         20         40        40        40         40
*Electric Steel         Alexandria                                                                                         40         70       100       100        100
*Electric Steel         Sadat City                                                                                                  .50        150       250        300
Chemical Projects
*Nitrates               Ras Gharib                                                                                         20         50        50         50        50
Fertilizer Kima        Aswan                    200        200       250        250       250       250         50        50         50        50         50        50
Ferro-Silica Kima      Aswan                      10        12        25         25        25         25        25        25         25        25         25        25
Urea (German Uda)      Alexandria                                                                                         15         15        15         15        15
Caustic Soda           Alexandria                                                20        20         20        20        20         20        20         20        20
NH3N03 & Urea          Talka                                17        17         17        17         25        33         33        33         33        33        33
Phosphate Projects
Mining                  Esna                                          10         10        10         10        10         10        10         10        10         10
Factory elemental      Nag Hamadi
(cancelled 340 MW)
Mine-Fertilizer Abu Tartur                                                                                                 90        90         90        90        90
Textiles (own 50 MW)  Mahalla El Koubra
*Aluminium Smelter      Nag Hammadi                          80       150        220       220        300       370        370       370        370       370       370
(2nd Stage 150 MW not started)
Petroleum Refinery     Alexandria                                                                     20        20         20        20         20        20         20
Petroleum Refinery     Alexandria                                                                               20         30        30         30        30         30
Oil Pipeline           Suez-Alexandria                                50        130       150        150       150        150       150        150       150        150
(340 km - 2x42")
Oil Pipeline           Suez-Port Said
(2x36" cancelled 100 MW)
Cement Expansions      Helwan                                                                                   40         40        40         40        40         40
Cement Plant           Assiut                                                    35        35         35        35         35        35         35        35         35
Cement Plant            Suez                                                                                    30         30        30         30         30        30
363       505       699        906       926       1034      1032       1257      1387       1517      1617       1667
Annual Increase                                            142        194       207         20       108        -2        225        130       130        100        50
Note:  The asterisked projects have still to be contracted.  Assuming they materialize as shown the total industrial load increase frox 699 1N  in 1976 to
1,667 W in 1985 is equal to a 10% per annum growth rate.  New projects will be developed but are unlikely to affect the totals: above before 1980
given the 4-5 year gestation period for new industry.
SOURCE:  Sanderson & Porter, Inc.,
UNDP Power Sector Survey Field Team
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A RGIO.AL ELECTRIFICATICN PROJECT
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
UNIFIED PCWER SYSTEM
Generation and Sales, 1974-1985
(Nillion kWh)
-ACTUAL-           ESTIMATED                                        FORECAST
1974      1975       1976        1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
I.  Net Generation                      8,525      9,793     11,800      13,500    15,180     17,205    19,187      21,106     23,025    24,948      26,867     28,699
of which:
a)  Combustion Turbine                 47         24          10        350       420        490        670        850      1,050      1,210      1,390      1,570
b)  Steam Turbine                    2,351      2,980      3,700      3,150     3,760      4,715      6,517      8,256      9,975     11,738     13,477     15,129
c)  Hydro                            6,127     6,789       8,090    lo,oo    11,000      12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000
II.  System (T&D)
Losses                               1,630      1,485      2,000      2,300     2,580      2,925      3,262      3,588      3,914      4,241      4,567      4,879
III.  Sales
of which:                           6,895      8,308      9,800      11,200    12,600     14,280     15,925     17,518     19,111     20,707     22,300     23,820
a)  Industrial                       3,789     4,805       5,880      6,888     7,860      9,060     10,185     11,208     12,171     13,067     13,900     14,580
b)  Other                            3,106      3,503      3,920      4,312     4,740      5,220      5,740      6,310      6,940      7,640      8,400      9,240
IV.  Available Generation                                     16,445      19,525   20,420      22,359     24,249    28,085      29,765     29,569     32,029    34,129
V.  Margin (Deficit)                                          4,645       6,025    5,240       5,154      5,062      6,979      6,740      4,621      5,162      5,430
As percentage of required net
generation                                                  39.4       44.6      34.5       29.9      30.0       33.1        29.3       18.5       19.2       18.9
SOURCE: EEA and UNDP Power Sector Survey, Sanderson and Porter, Inc., Field Team and
Mission estimates.
May 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
The National Rural Electrification Plan
Origins and Background
1.         The Arab Republic of Egypt includes more than 4,000 villages in
addition to many smaller farm communities (hamlets) scattered all over the
country numbering about 25,000. With the completion and start-up of the
Aswan High Dam hydroelectric project and associated 500, 220, and 132-kV
power system facilities, enough electricity became available to serve all
main load centers in the country.
The National Plan
2.         To assure high quality, dependable electric service and to make
electricity available to the population outside the two large metropolitan
areas of Cairo and Alexandria, an ambitious 1971-75 National Rural Elec-
trification Plan was evolved along the following lines:
-    Reconstruction and strengthening of the distribution networks
(11-kV and 380 volts) in about 120 urban centers.
-    Extension of the 66-kV and.33-kV transmission network by a
total route length of about 600 miles.
-    Installation of about 52 substations rated 10-40 MVA to
connect 11-kV distribution to the bulk supply system through
the extended 66-kV and 33-kV subtransmission.
-    Installation of new low voltage (380/220 volts) distribution
networks in about 4,046 villages and 25,000 hamlets.
-    Installation of 11-kV/380 volts distribution transformers
with a total capacity of 1,500 MVA to supply the above
networks and small motor loads for irrigation pumping and
rural industries.
-    Installation of new 11-kV distribution lines to feed the
above mentioned distribution transformers. The total
estimated length of these lines is about 8,000 miles.



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
Work Already Completed
3.        The REA program begun initially under the 1971-75 5-Year Plan had
to be scaled down because of financial constraints to about 2,000 villages and
hamlets and 84 towns. REA now intends to complete the balance of the original
plan during the 1976-80 5-Year Plan period.
4.        During the first 5-Year Plan, REA erected 12 substations of the 52
proposed. Ten more substations are still under construction and there is
enough material on hand for 14 additional installations. During the same
period, 660 villages were electrified involving installation of 2,601 km of
11-kV primary mains; 2,295 km of I1-kV primary laterals; and 3,331 outdoor
distribution transformers rated 11/0.4 kV in unit sizes ranging from 25 to
100 kVA, three-phase.
5.        The distribution networks in 84 urban centers were rebuilt and
modernized in the same time span. The work included installation of:
-    Twenty-five 11-kV distribution switchboards.
-    660 transformer kiosks with a total capacity of 122.5 MVA.
-    375 km of II-kV underground cable.
-    35 km of 11-kV overhead lines.
-    60 km of low voltage underground cable.
-    366 km of 0.4-kV overhead secondary.
In addition, several district offices, warehouses and a whole new supporting
organization were established and placed in operation.
May 1977



Al431 14
9FR898AL OF A RIWIONAL ELECTBIFSCATION POJ6CS                                                                                   1 of 5
EGYPT
Osvalopent Pronrsa Coats. '000 LE. Y.OOO   U WS 1.50
Sag  Price.s,  od of 1975                                        Work Ls
Progras aon
of Ostbar 31,                                                                        Total              Total
Percent             1975              1-76        1977       1978        1979        1980         1975-1980          1976-1980
I)  Stags Station
1.  E    Ar                                  27             138075              2,560       1,551                                              17,186               4,111
PC          7~      ~     ~~3 36.22            9.869                                                          47,31*11L13l
(.tsrt-up 1977)         T               100                298             12,429       2,817
2.  Cgro  Wot btnsaion   LC                  22                265              2,130       2,120       1,155      1,550                        7,220               6,955
PC               78              2.7366.06''IA'                                          Eat1U11                                       I-i
(start-up 1979)         T               100              3,021             Toi,w                  -kil        -F3
3. Abu Qir I                LC               21                 65              1,280       3,660      6,725       6,610                       16.540              18,475
(start-up early 1980)  PC               -a               5.990              7,099 .   3L          lif!        __2                             I               61
T               100              6,055              8,379    14U-7456     1577%        7,5238,71266
4. Abs Qir 11 TC                             23                                     5       1,170       3,375      7,620       6,000            18,170             18,170
(start-up lIte 1980)   Pc                77                                 3_.900        45      UAf         22,288      .aO              41.34              61.745
T               100                                -3,905       1,213    -32F,848     29,908      12,04            79-,915             79,915
5.  SpuD  I                 LC               15                                                50       3,775      5,965       6,900            16,690             16,690
(start-up 1981)        PC               85                                                        14.958f 32.391 415.55                    92.907             92.97
T               100                                                50     18,713      38,356      52,458          109,597            109,597
6.  Ismailig                LC               19                                                            50      3,780       6,660            10,490             10,490
(start-op 1982)         Pc               81                                                        _           14.967     30.207                     4       55,174
1100                                                                   30     18,747      36,867                     55,664   5,6
7.  Sues 1I                 LC                                                                                                      5                5                  5
(start-up 1984)         PC              100                                                                               3.900             3.900             3.,900
T               100                                                                                3,905            3,905               3,905
Subtotal Stes Plant   LC                 20             13,405              5,975       6,751     15,080      25,525      19,565           88,301              74,896
PC               80            44 969              29.674     49.844      66,173      71.122      85.706          347.488            302.519
T               100            _584                35,649      58,595     81,253      96,647    105,271           435,789             377,415
11.  Go Turbisn  Statioss
1.  El Fa.ri                LC               37                                   250         750                                                1,000              1.000
(start-op 1977)         PC              63                 171              1,536                                                           1,707               1.536
T               100                171              1,706         730                                               2,707               2,536
2. Abu El Hstair            LC               37                                   250         750                                                1.0              1,000
(start-op 1977)        FC                63                171              1.536                                                           1,707               1 536
T               100                171              1,786         75                                                2,707              27536
3.  Cairo North             LC               32                150                350         300                                                  800                650
(otrt-p 1977)          FC               68               1.707                                                                              1.707
T               100              1,857                350         300                                               2,507                 650
4. Tolkho/HoeloO            LC               25                                     25      3,200       9,085                                   12.310             12,310
(start-up 1977         PC                75                                 3,413      17.552     15.163                                   36.128              36.128
through 1979)        T                100                                 3,438     2,752       24,248                                   48,438              48,438
Sobtotl Coo Torbtio   tO                27                150                875       5,000       9,085                                  150110              14,960
Pisot                  FC               73              2.049              6.485      17.552      15.163                                  41.249              39.2
T               100              2,199              7,360     22,552      24,248                                   56,359              54,160
Total GCenration        IC               21             13,555              6,850      13,751      24,165     25,525      19,565           103,411             89,856
FC               79             47,018             36.159     67.396      81.336      71.122      85,706          388.737             341.719
T               100             60,573             43,009      81.147    105,501      96,647    105,271           492,148             431,575
III. Tranoo,isoion
a.  220-kV Overhead Linea  LC                73                630              3,550      18,966      17,273       3,434       3,025           46,878             46,248
Fc               27              1.399              2,841       5.564      6.238       1.519         717            18.278             16.879
(Aoraia-Kafr El Daoar   T              ) 100              2,029              6,391      24,530     23,511       4,953       3,742           65,156              63,127
(Kafr El Savar - Abu Qir - Alexandria)
(DOaoAhour-Kafr El Davar-Alexandria )
(Abh Qir - Nav Aswaia 
(Abu Qir - tekhila                     )
(Talkha - Kafr El Sheikh               )
(Kafr El Sheikh - Daiwanhour           )
(Cairo 500 - Tibbis - Wadi Hoof
(High Too - Agavs
(Suez - Isasilia                       )
(Isoallis - Port Said
(Zgpszig - Isoslia                     S
(Nag H.rsodi - Abo Tartour -
(Ta1lha - El KYssaley                  )
(El Bargo - Cairo South
(El Harms - Cairo West
(IsT.ilia - El Ko.s.hy                 )
(Sloz - Count
(C-nst - Ein El SokLsso                )
(Eafor - Ferrosili.o-                  )
(D.khila - Sid. Kreir                  )
b.  220-kV Und-rground      IC                9                                     10        330         550                                      890                 890
Cables                 FC               91                                             1 135       8.422                                    9.557              9.557
T               100                                    10       14          8,972                                   10,447             10,447
(Cairo North - Sapteya
(Ciaro East - Roliopoli)
c   66-bV Undorarouod        C               45                                    495      1,873       4,717       1,385       1,143            9,613               9,613
Cables                 PC               55                                    384      3.949       4.775       1.451       1.224           11.783             11783
T               100                                   879       5, 822      9,492       2,836      2,367            21,396             21,396
(Cairo Zone
(Alexandria Zose
(Canal Zone
Subtotal                IC               59                630               4,055     21,169      22,540       4,819       4,168           57,381              56,751
PC               41              1.399              3.225      jp4ft       19.435       2.970       1.941           39.618             38.219
T               100              2,029              7,280      51,817      41.975       7,789      6,109            96,999             94,970



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 5
A7PRbA71L OF A RKIBOlL  1C7IEICATION PRDJECT
bT
Dnvwlop_nt P-ors Coost. '*00 LE. L,1.000 - U38$1.50
Base Prices, end of 1975                                      Work in
Progress 00
of Dce.br 31,                                                                         Total              Total
Percent           1975                1976        1977       1978        1979       1980          1975-198           1976-1980
IV. Substationo
a.  500-kV Primnt  Voltooc  TC              25                                  560         500      1,000                                   2,000              2,00
PC            _77                                2,560       4,266                                              6.826              6.826
(Nag Ha-adi             T              100                                3,060      4,766       1,000                                   8,826             8,826
b. 220-kV Prierar  VoItqS  TXC              19               500              2,620      5,286       5,380      2,530       1,025           15,141             14,641
PC             El              4.195             3.823      15.354     22.442      16.810         700          63.324             59.129
(Sapty., 2 o 125 MVA     T )           100              4,695              6,443     20,640     25,822      19,140       1,725          78,465             73,770
(Into.
(Iasnoilts                 )
(Cairo tost, 3 o 75 MVA
(Port Sold
(Pyrneids                  )
(Aclroi                    )
(Dekhila, 2 o 175 MVA      )
(Tibbi , 2 e 125 MVA
(KSfr El Shtikh, 2 o 75 MVA)
(El KasDaby                )
(Abh T-rtoor               )
(Coiro West ECt.osios      5
(Taeta Etten-ios           )
(Aloeetdria I  tetosloo    )
(Tohri,r Bdr Eteesios      )
(Zogosig Ettet-ioc         )
(A,oeig tetes.o..          )
(Wadi Hoof Eot-ooion
(H.1liopoli E.ttsiou      )
(D-noohour etessise        )
o.  132-kV Prinzary Voltage  LC             36                 4                366        500         370         50          25            1,315              1,311
PC             64                227               497         328        541         370        403            2.366              2.139
(Aawae                   T )           100                231                863        828         911        420         428           3,681              3,450
(As.yout Ceze-t            )
(Ferrosili-oo              )
(Edfon Erttenion           )
d. 66-kV Pr1iary Voltage   LC               28                                  359       1,540      1,851         850        500            5,400              5,400
FC             72                                 1.343      5.543      3,251       2.142      1.715           13 994             13.994
(Tibbie                  T )           100                                 1,702      7,383       5,102      2,992       2,215          19,394             19,394
(Abe Qir Fertilizer
(M.stotod                  )
(Subatotion nu=ber 100
(Torrab ceno               )
(Cawl Cooe substationa:
Fayod, Eantara, North
S-o, South luos,
ond Ianailie            )
(Wardiia                   )
(Manabeya                  )
(Ib-hurzeya                )
(Clees                     )
(Ahar a       
(Abzakeya                  )
(Abdin
(Ain El Syra
(W-rrak                    )
(Alaein                    )
Subtotal                LC                               504              3,845      1,126       6,601      3,230       1,550           23,856            23,352
FC                             4.422             8J223      25491     26.234      19322      2.818           86.510             82.088
T                              4,926             12,068     33,617     32,833      22,552      4,368          110,366            105,440
V. Dibttitioe 1/
o.   eanl Zose              LC              30                                  345         471        315         315        114            1,560              1,560
Rhehbilitotion         Fc              70                                  805       1,100        735         730        266            3.636              3.636
T             100                                 1,150      1,571      1,050       1,045         380           5,196              5,196
b, Other ehohilltotlo_ __                   40                                2,600       7,960      4,210      4,210       4,210           23,190             23,190
Work                   FC              60                                3.900      11.94 60 315           6.315       6.315           34.785             34.785
T             100                                 6,500     19,900      10,525     10,525      10,525          57,975             57,975
Sobtotal                IC              39                                2,945       8,431      4,525      4,525       4,324           24,750             24,750
PC             61                                 4,705     13.040     27_50       _7, 455    46581            30 421             38'42l
T             100                                 7,650     21,471      11,575     11,570      10,905          63,171             63,171
VI. Coz=unicatlona & Control    LC               18                                  400         300        620         100         900           2,320              2,320
Evise-at                   PC             _2                                    171      2.048      3.285       3.242      1.877           10.623             10.623
2T            100                                   571      2,348      3,905       3,342       2,777          12,943             12,943
VII. Studies, Research. Trainig ILC               50                                   275        357         357        358         358           1,705              1,705
PC             50                                   275        358        358         357         357           1,705              1.705
T             100                                   550        715         715        715         715           3,410              3,410
VIII. Other, Prop. Work, DwellIfg,LC               50                                   900      1,839       1,348      1,050         651           5,788              5,788
Etc.                       PC              50                                  900       1.839      1.348       1.051        651            5,789              5.789
T             100                                 1,800      3,678       2,696      2,101       1,302          11,577             11,577
Total Iv-tsent Plan         LC                             14,689             19,270     53,973     60,156      39,607     31,516          219,211            204,522
(useacolated)               FC                            52.839             53.658    120.820    139.046    105.109       99,931          571.403            518.564
T                             67 528             72.928    174.793    1t99202    144.716    131.447           790.614            72308
1I Not including laok Project, chos separately.
R/ Not including Studies and Training conponents of Hank Project.
SOORCE: Misobon estisotes from dote soppliod by ERA.



APPRAISAL OF A REGI0ONA  fubAOOICWIOU P0                                   1          4
Development Program Cost. '000 IJX.  Z1.000 - US$1.50
Base Prices. end of 1975                                 Work in
Progress on
Local Currency Costs                                 of Dec. 31. '75         1976       1977        1978        1979       1980                1975-1980             1976-1980
Escalation Factor                                                           .065         .20         .34         .51         .67
I. Steam Stations
1. Eafr El DSawar
Sass Cost                                        13,075            2,560       1,551                                                     17,186                 4,111
Price Contingency                                                    166         310                                                        476                   476
Total Escalated LC Cost                          13,075            2,726       1,861                                                     17,662                 4,587
2. Cairo West Expansion
Sase Cost                                           265            2,130       2,120       1,155      1,550                               7,220                 6,955
Price Contingency                                   265               138        424         393         790                              1.745                  1,745
Total Escalated IC Coat                              265            2,268      2,544       1,548       2,340                              8,965                  8,700
3 .Abu Qir I
Base Cost                                            65            1,280       3,660       6,725      6,610                              18,540                 18,475
Price Contingency                                                      83        772       2266        3.571                              6.512                 6.512
Total Escalated LC Cost                               65            1,363      4,632       9,011       9,981                             25,052                24,987
4. Ab9L. .rfI
Sase Cost                                                               5      1,170       3,375       7,620      6,000                  18,170                18,170
Price Contingency                                                    _           234       1.4         3.88       4.00                    .28 
Total Escalated LC Cost                                                 5      1,404       4,523      11,506     10,020                  27,                   27,48
5. Sues I
Base Coat                                                                         50       3,775      5,965       6,900                  16,690                16.690
Price Contingency                                                                 10       JJ         3.042       1,623                  25,49                  8.959
Total Escalated IC Cost                                                           60       5,059       9,007     11,525                  25,649                25,649
6. .Ismailia
Sase Cost                                                                                     50      3,780       6,660                  10,490                10,490
Price Contingency                                                                             17       1.928      4.462                   6.407                 6.407
Total Escalated LC Cost                                                                       67       5,708     11,122                  16,897                16,897
7. Suez II
Base Cost                                                                                                              5                      5                      5
Price Contingency                                                                                                      3                      3                      3
Total Escalated LC Cost                                                                                                8                      8                      8
Steano Plant Escalated IC Cost                   13.405            6.362      10.501      20.208     38.542      32.673                 121,691               108.286
II. Gas Turbine Stations
1. El Favun
Base Cost                                                             250        750                                                      1,000                 1,000
Price Contingency                                                      16        150                                                        166                   166
Total Escalated LC Cost                                               266        900                                                      1,166                 1,166
2. Abu El Matonir
Base Cost                                                            250         750                                                      1,000                 1,000
Price Contingency                                                      16        150                                                        166                   166
Total Escalated IC Cost                                               266        900                                                      1,166                 1,166
3. Cairo North
Base Cost                                            150              350        300                                                        800                   650
Price Contingency                                   _                  23         60                                                         83                    83
Total Eacalated LC Cost                              150              373        360                                                        883                   733
4. Talkha'Helsan
hase Cost                                                              25      3,200       9,085                                        12,310                 12,310
Price Contingency                                                       2        640       3.089                                         3,731                  3.731
Total Escalated IC Cost                                                27      3,840      12,174                                        16,041                 16,041
Cas Turbine Escalated LC Costs                       150             932       6,000      12,174                                        19,256                 19,106
III.  Transmission                                             630            4,055     21,169      22,540       4,819      4,168                  57,381                56,751
IV.  Substations                                              504            3,845      8,126       6,601       3,230      1,550                  23,856                23,352
V. Distribution i/                                                          2,945      8,431       4,525       4,525      4,324                  24,750                24,750
VI.  Cooaunications & Control Esuiprot                                         400         300        620         100         900                  2,320                 2,320
VII.  Studies, Research 6 Training _                                            275         357        357         356         358                  1,705                 1,705
VIII.  Other, Prep. Work. Dwellings                                              900       1.839      1.348       1.050         651                  5.788                 3.788
Total Base Cost (III-VIII)                             1,134           12,420     40,222      35,991      14,082     11,951                115,800                114,666
Price Contingency                                                        807      8.044      12.237       7.182     8.007                   36I277                36.277
Total Escalated LC Cost (III-VIII)                1,134           13,227      48,266     48,228      21,264      19,958                152,077                150,943
Total Escalated IC Cost (Complete Development
Program)                                             14.689          20.521      64.767      80.610     59.806      52.631                293.024                278.335
1/ Not including Bank Project, shown separately.
2/ Not including Training & Studies provided under Bank Project.
SOURCE: Mission estimates from data obtained from EEA



ANNE%14
Pasge 4 of 5
APPBAIBL OF A RBGIOIEAL ELIECTRPICATION PROJECT
EZYPT
Development Program Costs. '000 LE.  LE1.000 - US$1.50
Base Prices, end of 1975                               Work in
Progress as
Foreign Currency Costs                             of Dec. 31, 1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980              1975-1980             1976-1980
Escalation Pector                                                           .045       .13        .22         .33        .42
I. Stoa, Stations
1 iairsE Coot                                   36,223           9,869       1,266                                                   47,358                11,135
Price Contingency                                                  444         164                                                      608                   608
Total Escalated PC Cost                         36,223          10,313       1,430                                                   47,966                11,743
2. Cairo West Extension
Base Cost                                        2,756           8,806      11,417      2,671         563                            26,213                23,457
Price Contingency                                                   396      1.484        587         186                             2.653                 2.653
Total Escalated PC Cost                          2,756            9,202     12,901      3,258         749                            28,866                26,110
3. Abu Qir I
bae Cost                                         5,990            7,099     37,118     19,071         913                            70,191                64,201
Price COntingenDy                                                   319      4.825      4.196         301                             9.641                 9.641
Total Escalated FC Cost                          5,990            7,418     41,943     23,267       1,214                            79,832                73,842
4. Abu Qir II
Base Cost                                                         3,900         43     29,473      22,288      6,041                 61,745                61,745
Price Contingency                                                   176          6      6.484       7.355      2.537                 16_558                16.558
Total Escalated FC Cost                                           4,076         49     35,957      29,643      8,578                 78,303                78,303
5. Suez I
Base Cost                                                                              14,958      32,391     45,558                 92,907                92,907
Price Contingency                                                                       3.291      10.689     19.134                 33.114                33.114
Total Escalated FC Cost                                                                18,249      43,080     64,692                126,021               126,021
6. Ismailis
Base Cost                                                                                          14,967     30,207                 45,174                45,174
Price Contingency                                                                                   4.939     12.687                 17,626                17.626
Total Escalsted FC Cost                                                                            19,906     42,894                 62,800                62,800
7. Suez II
Base Cost                                                                                                      3,900                  3,900                 3,900
Price Contingency                                                                                              1.638                  1.638                 1.63S
Total Escalated FC Cost                                            _          _                                5.538                  5,538                 5.538
Steam Plant Escalated FC Cost                   44,969           31.009     56.323     80.731      94.592    121.702                429,326               384,357
II.  Cas Trbine Stations
1. El Pawn
Base Cost                                          171            1,536                                                               1,707                 1,536
Price Contingency                                                    69                                                                  69                    69
Total Escalated FC Cost                            171            1,605                                                               1,776                 1,605
2. Abu El Mntaoir
Base Cost                                          171            1,536                                                               1,707                 1,536
Price Contingency                                                    69                                                                  69                    69
Total Estclated FC Cost                            171            1,605                                                               1,776                 1,605
3. Cairo North
Base Cost                                        1,707                                                                                1,707
Price Contingency
Total Escalated FC Cost                          1,707                                                                                1,707
4. Talkha/Helwan
base Cost                                                        3,413      17,552     15,163                                        36,128               36,123
Price Contingency                                                   154      2.282      3.336                                         5.772                 5.772
Total Escalated PC Cost                                           3,567     19,834     18,499                                        41,900               41,900
Gas Turbine Esasisted FC Cost:                   2.049           6.777      19.834     18.499                                        47.159               45.110
III.  Transsissios                                         1,399            3,225     10,648     19,435       2,970      1,941                 39,618               38,219
IV.  Dsitiol                                              4,422            8,223     25,491     26,234      19,322      2,818                 86,510               82,088
V. Distribution 1/                                                        4,705     13,040      7,050       7,045      6,581                 38,421                38,421
VI. Cs.nunisetions 6 Control Esuiproent                                      171      2,048      3,285       3,242      1,877                 10,623                10,623
VII.  Studies, Research 6 Trainine                                            275        358        358         357        357                  1,705                 1,705
VIII.  Other, Pros. Work. Dominos. etc.                                        900      1.839      1.348       1.051        651                  5.789                 5.789
Total Base Cost (III - VIII)                         5,821           17,499     53,424     57,710      33,987     14,225                182,666              176,845
Price Contingency                                                       787      6.945     12.696      11.216      5,974                 37.618               37.618
Escalated Cost (III - VIII)                          5,821           18,286     60,369     70,406     45,203      20,199               220,284               214,463
Total Escalated FC Cost (Complete
Development Program)                               52_839          56.072    136.526    169.636    139.795    141.901                 696.769-    643.930
1/ Not including Bank Project, shown separately.
2/ Not including Training and Studies part of Bank Project.
SOURCE: Mission estimates from data obtained from EEA.



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Summary of Escalated Development Program Costs, '000 LE, LE1.000 = US$1.50
Work in
Progress as of
Base prices, end of 1975                       Percent         Dec. 31. 1975        1976        1977        1978       1979        1980           1975-1980           1976-1980
I.  Steam Stations             LC                 22              13,405            6,362      10,501      20,208     38,542      32,673           121,691              108,286
FC                 78              44.969           31.009     56.323      80.731      94.592    121.702            429,326             384.357
T                 100              58,374           37,371      66,824    100,939    133,134    154,375             551,017             492,643
II. Gas Turbine                 LC                 29                  150              932      6,000      12,174                                    19,256              19,106
Stations                  FC                 71                2.049           6,777      19.834      18.499                                    47,159              45.110
T                 100               2,199            7,709      25,834     30,673                                    66,415              64,216
III.  Transmission; Substations,
Distribution; Communica-
tion and Controls; Studies,
Research and Training; andLC                  41               1,134           13,227      48,266      48,228      21,264     19,958            152,077             150,943
Others; Prep. Work,        FC                 59               5.821           18.286      60.369      70.406     45.203      20.199            220,284             214.463
Dwellings, etc.            T                 100               6,955           31,513    108,635    118,634       66,467      40,157           372,361              365,406
Total Program Escalated   LC                  30              14,689           20,521      64,767      80,610      59,806     52,631            293,024             278,335
Costs                     FC                 70              52.839           56.072    136.526    169.636    139.795    141.901               696.769             643.930
T                 100              67.528           76.593    201.293    250.246    199.601    194.532              989.793              922.265
SOURCE:  EEA
May 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Consulting Services for Rehabilitation and Expansion
of Distribution Networks
Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In Egypt, the Ministry of Electricity and Energy is responsible for
the power subsector through the Rural Electrification Authority (REA), the
Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA), and two other agencies.
1.02      These Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of Consulting
Services required by the Rural Electrification Authority for a Regional Elec-
trification Project. The Project is part of the second five-year installment
(1976-80) of the National Rural Electrification Plan started in 1971 by the
REA. It would provide additional distribution capacity to accommodate load
growth up to 1982, compatible with longer-range system development.
II. GENERAL
2.01      The National Rural Electrification Plan covers 80 REA-zones including
about 120 towns, 4,000 villages, and 25,000 hamlets. During the first five
years of the Plan (1971-75), 84 towns have had their systems reinforced and
expanded and 2,000 villages have been electrified, completing altogether 28
zones. The remaining 52 zones are scheduled for completion during 1976-1980.
2.02      The Regional Electrification Project consists of approximately 3,400
km of 11 kV and 380/220 V overhead and underground distribution, 230 MVA of
substation and distribution transformer capacity and 100 km of 66 and 33-kV
subtransmission. These facilities would be located in Project areas proposed
by REA (Attachment 1). All engineering will be according to the new standards
and practices being developed by EEA aith USAID financing.  Harza Engineering
Company (US) have been retained by EEA to develop guidelines to rehabilitate
and expand subtransmission and distribution in Cairo, Alexandria and eleven
provincial cities. The Project's urban centers are included in Harza's work.
Attachment 2 details further the work assigned to Harza.



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 4
III. OBJECTIVE
3.01      The Consultants would assist REA to prepare bid documents and
specifications and complete engineering designs based on material quantities
and cost estimates developed during Project appraisal. The Consultants would
also assist REA in ranking rural zones for consideration of construction
priority, and establishing adequate data gathering and processing systems to
monitor and evaluate the results of the National Rural Electrification Plan.
IV. SCOPE OF WORK
4.01      The Consultant's services will include:
(a)  Review REA plans, engineering designs and materials and
equipment specifications applying to the Project, and
modify them as necessary to conform with the Harza
recommendations accepted by REA. Sufficient distribution
capacity is to be provided in each Project area to accom-
modate load growth to 1982, compatible with longer-range
system development.
(b)  Review REA bid documents and suggest revisions to take
account of procedures outlined in World Bank procurement
guidelines.
(c)  Confirm selection of Project areas applying evaluation
procedure given in Attachment 3.
(d)  Rank the rest of the rural zones in the overall REA Plan,
starting with the six remaining after (c) above, for con-
sideration of future electrification priority. Ranking
should aim at maximizing the financial and economic return
on the Plan in accordance with guidelines set out in
Attachment 4.
(e)  Assist REA in establishing an information system to monitor
the performance of the National Rural Electrification Plan
as suggested in Attachment 5.
(f)  Assist REA in bid evaluation and award of contracts for
equipment and materials.
(g)  Assist REA in Project management and construction supervision,
particularly in the preparation and monitoring of construction,
schedules and related progress reporting in accordance with
World Bank requirements.



ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 4
(h)  Assist REA in inspecting and testing of equipment and materials
at the factories.
(I)  Assist REA in acceptance testing and commissioning of completed
facilities.
(j) Assist REA in preparation of Project Completion Report to fulfill
World Bank requirements.
V. CONTRACT PERFORMANCE
5.01      The Consultants shall work under the general direction of REA
through a counterpart Project unit specifically established for this Project.
REA shall also assist the Consultant to obtain copies of all studies and
reports required for the performance of the Consultants' services.
5.02      The Consultant shall submit a quarterly report to the REA not later
than the 15th of the following month. The quarterly reports shall contain
information on the Consultants' activities, listing all personnel employed
on the Project during the quarter and the functions they performed. The
report shall indicate progress during the quarter toward achieving contract
objectives, point out any difficulties or impediments, and recommend suitable
remedies.
5.03      As part of Project management and supervision services, the Con-
sultant shall develop detailed construction schedules and suitable monitoring
devices including specifically critical path schedules. The Consultant shall
review these schedules periodically in connection with quarterly reports and
recommend steps to ensure keeping the Project on schedule.
5.04      Within nine months of the effective date of the Consultant's con-
tracts the Consultant shall submit to REA a report on the balance of the
National Rural Electrification Plan recommending an electrification con-
struction program. The program would establish construction priorities in
order of economic merit as detailed in Attachment 4.
5.05      Within a year after start of construction the consultant shall
submit to REA recommendations for the establishment of an information system
to gather and process data to evaluate the performance of the National Rural
Electrification Plan.
5o06      Within three months of completion of construction the Consultant
shall submit to REA a report summarizing the Project's history, construction
costs, results achieved, problems encountered, and lessons learned which may
be useful to REAo



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 4
VI. TIMING
6.01      These services are expected to be required over a period of three
years, starting in May 1977 with work on the preliminary designs to confirm
quantities of materials and equipment required, and ending in May 1980, after
testing and placing in commercial operation of major facilities being procured
and installed under the Project. The facilities to be installed in the urban
centers should be completed first, the rural zones would follow.
VII. PAYMENTS
7.01      Payments for the foreign currency portion of the cost of these
services are expected to be made from proceeds of a World Bank loan for
which EEA has made an application. Local currency costs will be paid in
Egyptian Pounds by the Rural Electrification Authority.
May 1977



ANNEX 15
Attachment 1
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Project Areas Proposed by REA
1.   (a)  Urban Centers
1.   Damietta
2.   El Mahalla
3.   Tanta
4.   El Mansoura
5.   Fowa
6.   El Fayum
7.   El Miniah
8.   Assiut
9.   Aswan
10.   Sohag
11.   Kafr El Sheikh
12.   Ras El Bar
13.   Kafr El Dawar
2.        Rural Zones
1.   El Hussenieh
2.   Ta2lkha
3.   Shirbin
4.   Ei Mosalas
5.   Rashid
6.   El Mahrousa
7.   El Wasta
80   Awlad Tuk
9.   El Aakab
10.   Kafr Saad
11.   Kotour
12.   Manfalut
13.   Dairut
14.   Akhmin
15.   Disuq
16e   Kafr El Zayat
17.   Mallawi
18J   El Senbillawian
19.   Biala
20.   Fakous
21.   Hosh Eissa
22.   El Fashn
23.   Abnoub
24.   Menia El Kamn
25.   Kom Hamada



ANNEX 15
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Scope of Work Assigned to Harza Under EEA's Contract
Financed by USAID
Harza's services shall be the following:
1.   Review of all pertinent diagrams, plans and report on the existing
subtransmission and distribution systems in Cairo, Alexandria and
11 provincial cities, together with all available information on
planned rehabilitation and expansion of the systems.
2.   Review and analysis of base data and methodology employed to project
and forecast future loads--domestic, commercial, industrial and
public--as to magnitude and location within the study areas.
3.  Review and analysis of currently used system planning policies,
approaches, techniques and standards, construction and maintenance
methods and practices, and equipment types and specifications.
4.   Examination and analysis of the systems shall include but not be
limited to the following aspects and features:
a.   Determine adequacy of existing 66 kV and 33 kV sub-
transmission systems, using load flow, short circuit
and stability studies as required.
b.   Determine adequacy of existing distribution system voltage
for the primary voltage in longer range development.
c.   Determine the feasibility of adapting existing 33 kV to
distribution.
d.   Determine present distribution losses.
e.   Determine appropriateness of substation sizing, length of
primary feeders and degree of interconnection to ensure
reliability with economy.
f.   Determine relative economics of the existing practice of
using kiosks (distribution transformers and primary and
secondary switching in single enclosure).
g.   Develop concept for single phase distribution facilities.



ANNEX 15
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
5.   Become familiar, through field inspection and review of pertinent
reports, with the physical condition and service performance of the
existing subtransmission and distribution systems.
6.   Review and assess the existing capability and capacity of the EEA,
REA and others relative to accomplishment of rehabilitation and
system expansion work; and a similar assessment of existing capa-
bilities relative to system maintenance and repair.
7.   Prepare and submit to the EEA, not later than four months after the
effective date of this contract, 1/ a report presenting findings,
analyses, conclusions and recommendations relative to rehabilitation
and expansion of the systems in the study areas. The report shall
set forth these policies, procedures, methods, techniques, standards,
practices and equipment types recommended for use in planning the
subject systems rehabilitation and expansion. Alternatives to
existing policies, procedures, practices and equipment shall be
recommended in the interest of system economy, efficiency and
reliability as required. The report shall form the basis for
Consultant/EEA discussions and subsequent decisions by the EEA
regarding the policies, procedures and practices to be employed
in system rehabilitation and expansion planning.
1/   Contract was signed February 8, 1977.  Expected effective date is
no later than April 1, 1977.



ANNEX 15
Attachment 3
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Project Areas Evaluation Procedure
1.        All urban centers listed in Attachment 1, page 1, have been selected
for the Project and need no further evaluation.
2.        The Consultant shall test the first 14 rural zones against the
following selection criteria (additional suitable criteria may also be used,
as suggested by the Consultants):
(i) Financial return should be enough to contribute to debt
service within the first 10 years of operation.
(ii)  Internal financial rate of return, not less than 4% over
a 25-year period.
(iii) Average initial per capita income, not less than US$50/a.
(iv) Income growth rate, not less than 5%/a.
(v) The zones selected should preferably have the following features:
-    adequate infrastructure, particularly roads and waterways;
-    growing agricultural output; and, therefore,
-    increasing number of potential productive uses for elec-
tricity in farms and agro-industries;
-    a number of large villages, not too widely scattered;
-    improving living standards;
-    concurrent coordinated plans for regional development,
for instance, health, education, irrigation, drainage,
roads; and
-    reasonable access to central system electricity supply.
3.        Rural zones not confirmed in the preceding step would be replaced
with zones further down the list. Additional zones would also be included
to bring up to 19 the total of selected rural zones.



ANNEX 15
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Guidelines for Defining an Electrification Construction Program
for Balance of REA's National Rural Electrification Plan
The Consultant shall rank the balance of REA's National Electrifi-
cation Plan applying criteria suggested in Annex 4 (para 2) and the method-
ology given below:
(a) Collect the following information on a cross-section of zones
already electrified (say a representative sample of at least 10):
(i) The growth in number of consumers and of demand (kWh and
kW) and revenue per customer (including, if possible,
statistical analysis of individual consumer growth) since
each zone was electrified. Consumers are to be classified
as follows:
Residential
Commercial
Government and Municipal
Public Lighting
Industrial
Irrigation
Other
(ii) The growth of total demand (kWh and kW) and revenues.
(iii) The uses to which electricity is put by each category of con-
sumers, indicating types and numbers of appliances installed.
(iv) The costs of supply in as much detail as possible including
actual costs of lines and substations, etc., costs of genera-
tion, operation and maintenance.
(v) How revenues and costs have changed over time (e.g. is load
factor per consumer cctegory and overall improving? Have
investment costs per consumer been decreasing or increasing
over time?)
(vi) Types and number of dwellings, numbers connected to "networks".
(vii) Trends in socio-economic factors such as:



ANNEX 15
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 4
population growth
migratory flow
household incomes (giving the range as
well as the average)
average number of people per dwelling.
(viii) Details of other infrastructure (e.g. roads, water supply,
schools, health centers).
(ix) Details of any new economic activities (commercial, in-
dustrial or agricultural) which have developed since the
electrification of the zone.
(x) Comparative costs of electricity and electricity appliances
and equipment, on the one hand, and of substantive energy
sources and equipment on the other, particularly for non-
domestic uses. Taxes and credit facilities for the various
energy sources and types of equipment (electric and non-
electric) should also be considered in this context.
(xi) The projected demand (kWh and kW), revenues and costs over
the next 15-20 years, and justification of the projections.
(xii) Policies and charges for connecting new consumers of each
consumer category.
(b)  Analyze data statistically to establish trends and correlations
for load forecasting and cost-benefit analysis in connection with
REA's National Rural Electrification Plan.
(c)  Collect the following information for the remaining zones in REA's
National Rural Electrification Plan.
(i) Size of population and growth rate.
(ii) Household incomes (average and range).
(iii) Number and types of dwellings.
(iv) Average number of people per dwelling.
(v)   Main economic activities (agricultural, industrial,
commercial).
(vi)   Details of existing infrastructure (roads, water-supply,
schools, health centers, etc.).
(vii)   Existing fuels used and their costs.
(viii)   Major identifiable electricity loads (e.g. irrigation,
drinking-water supply, agro-industries) for (a) existing,
and (b) prospective new operations (taking account of any
Government development plans for the area).



ANNEX 15
Attachment 4
Page 3 of 4
(d)  Preliminary 15-20 year forecasts of demand (kWh and kW) and
revenues sha'll be prepared for each of the zones, not yet
fixing dates for electrification. The forecasts shall be
based on the analysis of the data for existing electrified
zones and the 4--nformation collected on the new zones, together
with ary other iniformation judged relevant (e.g. relating to
rural electrification developments in other comparable coun-
tries), A full justification for the forecasts should be
given, lncuding details of the methodology adopted.
(e)  The next step is to determine the least-cost means of meeting
the forecast demand -'n each zone. The main alternatives to
be considered azeg
(i)  public supplies from the main grid;
(ii)  the same, but with alternative network layouts, equip-
ment capacit-es and expansion plans; and
(iii)  local generation (e.g. by diesel sets) serving local
distribution networks.
The comparison of the feasible technical alternatives should be
made over an appropriate period of time (at least 20 years),
using DCF methods. The time-streams of costs should cover the
foliLow'ing items.
Running costs (related to kWh sales):  mainly, fuel and
vcriable costs oF maintenance. Fuel should be costed
at lts economic value, which may differ from its internal
price (e.g. the economic value of diesel or fuel oil is
its export value).
Cacz&city cosss (z:elated to kW peak demand):  generators,
local di-stribution networks and, in the case of public
suppl:'es f om the grids, transmission and subtransmission
capac:Qty.
Fixed ovef'-headsg mainly distribution.
Taxes should be dedwct-ee f:-om inputs subject to taxation, and
subsidies shouid 3e a6eed back.  Shadow prices should be used
in valuing .ore4gn exchange costs and unskilled labor, it
is suggested that foreign exchange should be valued at the
parallel market rat-e and unskilled labor at 50% of its money
value. The use of i0% cdiscount rate for the basic comparison
is suggested, although the sensitivity of the results to higher
and lower rates (e.g. from 6% to 16%) should be tested. The
effects of varying the assumptions on load forecast, capital
and fuel costs, and vaLue of foreign exchange should also be
tested.



ANNEX 15
Attachment 4
Page 4 of 4
(f) The final stage in the economic analysis is the calculation of
the present worth of the net benefits for each zone by dis-
counting the time-streams of costs and benefits (over a period
of at least 20 years) at an appropriate discount rate (10% is
suggested, with sensitivity testing over a range of 6-16%).
The relevant costs are operating, maintenance, and capacity
costs for generation, transmission, and distribution, as already
determined for the least-cost analysis. The benefits comprise:
(i) Direct benefits in the form of the projected revenues
from forecast electricity sales including any fiscal
charges or other taxes.
(ii) Surplus benefits to non-household consumers (agro- and
other industries, farms, commerce). These may be in
the form of resource cost-savings through the substitu-
tion of publicly supplied electricity for other energy
sources, (valued at thoir economic costs e.g. diesel
oil or kerosene at its export value) or extra output
resulting from the use of electricity.
(iii) Any extra Government tax revenues e.g. from taxes on
electricity consumptiou included in the prices charged
to consumers or through increased sales of electrical
appliances, if these are taxed (less any reduction in
tax revenues through reduced use of electricity sub-
stitutes).
(iv) Any other identifiable, but non-quantifiable benefits
(e.g. social benefits).
Again, the sensitivity of the economic rate of return to varying
the assumptions on capital and running costs, load forecast and
value of foreign exchange should be tested.
(g)  An electrification construction program shall then be defined
taking into account the forecast electricity requirements
(applying suitable diversity factors), costs and benefits and
ranking the zones in rough merit order for electrification.
This ranking should be based on the criteria suggested in
Attachment 3 and the results of the economic analysis but it may
be necessary in some cases to strike a balance between financial,
technical, economic and possibly organization considerations in
scheduling the zones to be electrified. However, any deviations
from the strict economic merit order should be specifically
justified.
(h)  A report ranking the zones should be submitted to REA not later
than nine months after the effective date of the Consultant's
contract.



ANNEX 15
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 2
Guidelines fo- Monitoring the National Rural Electrification Program
General
1.        REA's National Rural Electrification Program is t1ic first major step
in rural electrification in Egypt. It is essential that a monitoring system
be developed to gather extensive data during the execution of the second five-
year plan (1976-80) in order that the experience gained can be used in REA's
continuing program.
2.        These guidelines have been prepared to serve as the basis for dis-
cussions in the development by REA and its consultants of an appropriate
monitoring system.
3.        It would seem desirable that the data system be designed to collect
the information on a geographical basis using the power system configuration,
i.e., data would be gathered for each village, then village data would be
totalled by distribution substations, and finally substation data would be
a al'er  by bulk supply point or possibly by Rural Zones.  The loads connected
>'vectly to 11-kV feeders would be grouped with the feeder village loads.
This would readily permit comparing system area inputs with sales, developing
average supply costs, etc. However, the finally selected system would depend
on REA's particular requirements. Similarly, it is obvious that the monitoring
system should be designed for computer use in view of the volume of detailed
data and the desirability of processing it for various purposes.
Load Data
4.        To provide data on rate of load development for different regions
under varying economic nonditions as the villages are electrified the follow-
ing data should be coliected by village (data should also be collected for
the villages already electrified, to the extent possible):
(i) The growth in number of consumers, demand (kWh and kW) and
revenue per consumer (including, if possible, statistical
analysis of individual consumer growth) since each village
was electrified.  Co .sRumers would be classified as follows:
Residential
Commercial
Government and Municipal
Public Lighting
Industrial
Irrigation
Other
(ii)  The growth of total village demand (kWh and kW) and revenues.



ANNEX 15
Attachment 5
Page 2 of 2
(iii) The uses to which electricity is put by each category of
consumers, indicating information on the types and numbers
of appliances installed.
(iv)  Information on taxes paid by consumers as part of the
electricity bills.
(v)  How revenues change over time (e.g.:  does the load factor
per consumer category and overall improve)?
(vi)  Types and number of dwellings and the numbers connected to
"networks".
(vii) Trends in socio-economic factors such as:
Population growth
migratory flow
household incomes (giving the range
as well as the average)
average number of people per dwelling
(viii) Details of village infrastructure (e.g. roads, water supply,
schools, health centers).
(ix)  Details of any new economic activities (commercial, indus-
trial or agricultural) which have developed since the
electrification of the village.
(x) The projected demand (kWh and kW), revenue and costs over
the next 15-20 years, and justification of the projections.
Cost Data
5.        A costing system should be developed so that the following data can
be compiled:
(M)  Statistical information on transformers, feeder lengths,
capacities, etc.
(ii)  66, 33 and 11-kV facility costs by substation, area, line
feeder, etc. giving the investment costs for specific load
areas.
(iii) Individual village distribution costs and average connection
costs for the various consumer categories.
(iv)  Purchased power costs for the various areas.
(v)  Operating and maintenance costs prorated by village and by
other block load.
May 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 5
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Development of Project Cost Estimates
Base Price            Estimated            -----Appraisal Baselyost-----
Late 1976              Project                         LE '000      -__
Materials and Labor                                              (LE)              Quantities            Local       Foreign        Total
1. 63-kV Overhead Lines. per km.
(single-circuit steel tower construction)
-240/40 Sq. mm ACSR                                  15,000                 56                  227           613          840
-120/21 Sq. mm ACSR                                  13,000                 20                   70          190           260
2.  33-kV Overhead Lines, per km.
(single-circuit steel towerconstruction)
-120/21 Sq. umn ACSR                                  1,000                 23                   62          168           230
3.  Distribution Substations                                                            7                1,314        3,551        4,865
(including land, fences & steel structures)
-10 MVA, 66/11 kV, per unit
- HV Switchgear                                156,000
- Main Transformer                             122,000
- LV Switchgear                                132,000
- Control and Protection                       102,000
- Auxiliary Equipment                          104,000
- Cables                                        37,000
- Spare Parts and Maintenance Tools             42.000
Total Per Unit                 695.000
4.  Distribution Substations                                                            2                  246          664           910
(including land, fences & steel structures)
-10 MVA, 33/11 kV, per unit
- HV Switchgear                                 75,000
- Main Transformer                             100,000
- LV Switchgear                                 65,000
- Control and Protection                       100,000
- Auxiliary Equipment                           38,000
- Cables                                        27,000
- Spare Parts and Maintenance Tools             50.000
Total Per Unit                 455.000
5.  ll-kV Distribution Switchboards, per unit                   60,000                 21                 336          924         1,260
6. 11-kV Primary Mains and Laterals
- Underground cable, per km
- 3 x 240 Sq. mm, Al                                 12,800                118                  408       1,102         1,510
- 3 x 185 Sq. mm, Al (submarine cable)               12,000                  3                   10           26           36
- 3 x 150 Sq. mm, Al                                 11,200                237                  716       1,938         2,654
- 3 x 120 Sq. mm, Al (submarine cable)               12,000                  1                    4            8           12
- 3.x  70 Sq. mm, Al                                  8,000                252                  544       1,472         2,016
- Overhead lines, per km
- 150/25 Sq. um, ACSR                                 3,500                459                 434        1,172         1,606
-  95/15 Sq. mm, ACSR                                 3,000                422                 342          924         1,266
7.  Distribution Transformers, 11.000 - 380/220 V
3-Phase, per unit, rated:
- 500 kVA (Kiosk)                                7,500               148                  300          810         1,110
- 250 kVA (Kiosk)                                5,000               148                  200          540           740
- 160 kVA                                        4,000                58                   63          169           232
- 100 kVA                                        3,000               118                   95          259           354
-  63 kVA                                        1,800                96                   47          126           173
-  25 kVA                                          750               104                   20           58            78
8.  380/220-V Secondaries
3-Phase, 4-wire construction
- Underground cable, per km                      7,000               126                  238          644          882
- Overhead lines, per km        .                5,000             1,777                2,412       6.473         8.885
Total                                                                   8,088      21,831        29,919
Consultants                                                                                               629       1,465         2,094
Studies                                                                                                   340          728         1,068
Training                                                                                                  400          733         1.133
Total Base Cost                                                         9,457       24,757        34,214
1/ LE1.000 = US$1.50.



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Development of Project Costs,_'000 LE, LE1.000 = US$1.50)
Base Prices, late 1976                 Percent         1978         1979         1980           1978-1980
1)  Overhead and Under-   LC               27          1,692        2,983        1,128              5,803
ground Transmission  FC               73         4.563        8.048        3,043              15,654
and Distribution      T              100          6,255      11,031        4,171              21,457
2)  Substations Equipment LC              27            665        1,178          442               2,285
and Transformers      FC             73          1.796        3,184        1,197               6,177
T             100          2,461       4,362        1,639               8,462
3)  Engineering Services  LC               30            189         314           126                629
FC             70            440          732          293              1,465
T             100            629        1,046          419              2,094
4)  Studies and Training  LC               34           340          200           200                740
FC             66           661           333          467              1,461
T             100         1,001           533          667              2,201
Total Base Cost,       LC             28          2,886        4,675        1,896               9,457
Unescalated           FC             72          7,460       12,297        5,000              24,757
T             100        10,346       16,972         6,896             34,214
PX W
>4
o H'
U'



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Development of Project Costs, 'o00  LE, LE1.O)r = US$1.50
Base Prices, late 1976                      1978            1979           1980             1978-1980
Local Currency
1) Overhead and Underground
Transmission and
Distribution                           1,692          2,983          1,128               5,803
2) Substation Equipment
and Transformers                         665          1,178            442               2,285
3)  Engineering Services                      189            314            126                 629
4)  Studies and Training                     340             200            200                 740
Total Base Cost             2,886           4,675          1,896               9,457
Physical Contingency                379            467            190                1,036
Subtotal                    3,265           5,142          2,086              10,493
Escalation Factor                 .1872          .3297          .4751
Price Contingency                   611          1,695             991               3,297
Total Escalated LC Cost    3,876                           3,077              13,790
U )
fD 
>0



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Development of Project Costs, '000 LE, LE1.000   US$1.50
Base Prices, late 1976
Foreign Currency                             1978           1979           1980                1978-1980
1) Overhead and Underground
Transmission and
Distribution                           4,563          8,048          3,043                  15,654
2) Substation Equipment
and Transformers                       1,796          3,184          1,197                   6,177
3)  Engineering Services                      440            732            293                   1,465
4)  Studies and Training                      661            333            467                   1,461
Total Base Cost                7,460         12,297           5,000                 24,757
Physical Contingency                   980          1,230            500                   2,710
Subtotal                       8,440         13,527          5,500                  27,467
Escalation Factor                      .12           .22            .31
Price Contingency                    1,013          2,976          1,815                   5,804
Total Escalated FC Cost        9L453         16,503          7,315                  33,271
I<'d
t X
o G'
F-h
Un



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Summarized Project Cost Estimate, '000 LE, LE1.000 = US$1.50
--      LE Thousands ---------         --------US$ Thousands--------
Local      Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign       Total
1) Overhead and Underground
Transmission and
Distribution                    5,803       15,654      21,457         8,705        23,481      32,186
2) Substation Equipment
and Transformers               2,285         6,177       8,462         3,427         9,266      12,693
3)  Engineering Services              629         1,465       2,094           944         2,198       3,142
4)  Studies and Training              740         1,461       2,201         1,110         2,192       3,302
Subtotal                   9,457        24,757     34,214         14,186       37,137      51,323
Contingencies
Physical                      1,036         2,710       3,746         1,554         4,065       5,619
Price                         3 297         5,804       9,101         4,946         8,706     13,652
Total Project Cost         13,790        33,271     47,061         202686       49,908       70,594
May 1977
ih



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 5
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
A. EEA Monitoring Indicators
1.        The following system performance indicators should be periodically
determined and evaluated against the suggested target as shown:
(a) Unit availability. The ratio in percent of the number
of hours per year each generating unit in all hydro and
thermal stations is available for dispatch to the total
number of hours in the year, 8,760 hours.
(b) Mamixum effective system capability. The total MW rating
of all operational generating stations as a function of
water and unit availability. This figure should be reported
on an annual basis for the period of the year including the
system one-hour peak load for the year. Figures for the
current year, the previous year and the following year
estimates should be reported together.
(c) Reserve margin. The ratio in percent of the maximum effec-
tive system capability to the corresponding one-hour peak
demand during the year as shown in Annex 7. This figure
should be no less than 15%. It should be reported on the
same basis as the maximum effective system capability.
(d) Annual system losses, transmission and distribution. The
ratio in percent of the total annual kWh sales as recorded at
the meters of the ultimate consumers, to the total annual net
system generation as recorded at the outgoing bus to the step
up substations. This figure is shown as 17% in the generation
and sales forecast of Annex 12. It should be no higher than
10-12%.
2.        The following additional self-defining indices should also be
determined and reported on an annual basis:
(a) Generating capacity utilization. The ratio in percent of
hours run over total hours of unit availability.
(b) Net station heat rates. Average Btu (or Kcal) per kWh of
net generation. Thermal stations, station-by-station
and overall.



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 5
(c)  Plant factor, percent, based on nameplate rating.  All
stations.
(d)  Peak demand on station, MW (60 minutes) (net).
(e)  Net continuous plant capability.  With limiting condition,
if any, fully described.
(f)  Gross plant investment per kW of peak load.
(g)  Gross production plant investment per kW of peak load.
(h)  Gross transmission and distribution plant investment per
kW of peak load.
(i)  Annual residential and rural use in kWh per connection.
(j)  Total annual sales per consumer separated according to
tariff classifications.
tkj  Total number of connection per tariff classification.
(1)  C anections per 100 population in urban and rural areas.
3.        For the Aswan and High Dam installations, the following should also
be reported each year.
(a)  Installed generating capacity - generator nameplate - MW.
(b)  Net generation, million kWh.
(c)  Plant factor, percent, based on nameplate rating.
(d)  Net peak demand on plant, MW (60 minutes).
(e)  Capability under most favorable operating conditions - MW.
(f)  Capability under most adverse operating conditions - MW.
(g)  Monthly status of High Dam reservoir:
(i)  Storage or pondage from maximum draw-down,
million cubic meters.
(ii)  gross head (pond evaluation minus tailwater
evaluation) meters.
(iii)  cubic meters second per kW - Full station load.



ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 5
4.        The following financial indicators should be calculated and sub-
mitted with the EEA Annual Financial Report to the Bank;
(a) Operating Performance - rate of return on average net
fixed assets in service i.e.: operating income as a
percentage of the average net fixed assets for the
current and the preceding year.
(b) Operating Efficiency - average cost per kWh sold.
(c) Efficiency of Collections - average number of days
electricity accounts are outstanding.
(d) Debt Service Coverage - number of times gross debt
service including interest during construction is
covered by internal cash generation i.e. net
income plus depreciation.
(e) Debt/Equity ratio - ratio of long-term debt including
the portion due for repayment in one year to equity
including retained earnings and any revaluation surplus.
(f) Staffing - number of employees per MW of installed plant.
B. Guidelines for Monitoring the National Rural Electrification Program
General
5.        REA's National Rural Electrification Program is the first major step
in rural electrification in Egypt. It is essential that a monitoring system
be developed to gather extensive data during the execution of the second five-
year plan (1976-1980) in order that the experience gained can be used in REA's
continuing program.
6.        These guidelines have been prepared to serve as the basis for dis-
cussions in the development by REA and its consultants of an appropriate
monitoring system.
7.        It would seem desirable that the data system be designed to collect
the information on a geographical basis using the power system configuration,
i.e., data would be gathered for each village, then village data would be
totalled by distribution substations, and finally substation data would be
totalled by bulk supply point or possibly by Rural Zones. The loads connected
directly to 11-kV feeders would be grouped with the feeder village loads.
This would readily permit comparing system area inputs with sales, developing
average supply costs, etc. However, the finally selected system would depend
on REA's particular requirements. Similarly, it is obvious that the monitoring
system should be designed for computer use in view of the volume of detailed
data and the desirability of processing it for various purposes.



ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 5
Load Data
8.        To provide data on rate of load development for different regions
under varying ecnomic conditions, as the villages are electrified the follow-
ing data should be collected by village (data should also be collected for the
villages already electrified, to the extent possible);
(i) The growth in number of consumers, demand (kWh and kW) and
revenue per consumer (including, if possible, statistical
analysis of individual consumer growth) since each village
was electrified. Consumers would be classified as follows:
Residential
Commercial
Government and Municipal
Public Lighting
Industrial
Irrigation
Other
(ii) The growth of total village demand (kWh and kW) and revenues.
(iii) The uses to which electricity is put by each category of
consumers, indicating information on the types and numbers
of appliances installed.
(iv) Information on taxes paid by consumers as part of the
electricity bills.
(v) How revenues change over time (e.g.: does the load factor
per consumer category and overall improve)?
(vi) Types and number of dwellings and the numbers connected to
"inetworks".
(vii) Trends in socio-economic factors such as:
Population growth
migratory flow
household incomes (giving the range
as well as the average)
average number of people per dwelling
(viii) Details of village infrastructure (e.g. roads, water supply,
schools, health centers).
(ix) Details of any new economic activities (commercial, indus-
trial or agricultural) which have developed since the
electrification of the village.



ANNEX 1]7
Page 5 of 5
(x) The projected demand (kWh and kW), revenue and costs over
the next 15-20 years, and justification of the projections.
Cost Data
9.        A costing system should be developed so that the following data can
be compiled:
(i) Statistical information on transformers, feeder lengths,
capacities, etc.
(ii) 66, 33 and 11-kV facility costs by substation, area, line
feeder, etc. giving the investment costs for specific load
areas.
(iii) Individual village distribution costs and average connection
costs for the various consumer categories.
(iv) Purchased power costs for the various areas.
(v) Operating and maintenance costs prorated by village and by
other block load.
May 1977



ANNEX 18
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Assumed date of effectiveness October 14, 1977)
Bank Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                        at end of Quarter
1978                                    US$ Millions
December 31, 1977                             1
March 31, 1978                                3
June 30, 1978                                 8
1979
September 30, 1978                           13
December 31, 1978                            18
March 31, 1979                               25
June 30, 1979                                32
198C
September 30. 1979                           37
December 3i, 1979                            42
March 31, 1980                               45
June 30, 1980                                46
1981
September 30, 1980                           47
December 31, 1980                            48
Source: Mission estimates
May 1977



EGYPT
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SECHLIARY TO ROARD                  CHAIRMAN
I  l                r  '~~                      ~            ~~~ I      I                I                        I 
ADVISOR   COMPLAINTS SECURITY   PURL IC                 RGANIZATIONI                       PLANNING        MSO
BELA] IONS &g 111LI~G    LEGAL                              F OLAOWUP
AIAL    TRATIVE                                                                               RAFOR STATISTISOfIC
flNANCIAL                    lPRCHASING                            TRANSMISSION LINES         TECHNICAL                   CIVIL I STRUCTURAL       TRANSMISSION LINES          CONSTRUCTION PROGRAMS
-PERSONNEL                  -SFORES                              _SUBSTATIONS                UtPPER EGYPT                 WORKS                      SUBSTATIONS               MEDIUM VOLTAGE
ADMINISTRATIVE                  MACHINERY & TRANSPORT                 LOW VOLTAGE                LOWER EGYPT                SURVEYING                  HIGH VOLTAGE CABLES        TRANSMISSION I INES
CIVIL-ARCHITECT                                                                 TECHNICAL & TESTING         ECQUIPMENT
TECHNICAL & TESTING
|UPPER EGYPT||LOtEGP|
CONSTRUlCTION                                         CONSTRIICTION|
AS WAN                                                        IA
auE NA                                                  ARYIA
-SCHAG                                                 - DEKHILA
-ASSYOUT                                               - DAMIETTA
- MINYA                                               -MENUFIYA
-BENI SUIF                                            -GHARBIA
-FAYlJM                                                  KAR EL SHEIKH
-GUA                                                     BEHEIRA
Woild Bank - 16893
May 1977



ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Functions of REA Departments
Board of Directorsg The Board of Directors is responsible for:
a.   Setting major policies.
b.   Issuing internal regulations.
c.  Approving annual budgets and financial statements.
d.   Following up on reports and execution of programs.
Financial and Administrative Affairs Departmento This Department is responsi-
ble for personnel, purchasing, stores, transport and other financial and admin-
istrative matters through two inspectorates. One inspectorate supervises the
activities of three Directorates.--purchasing, stores and transport. The other
has only two Directorates--financial and administration. This Department pre-
pares general cost estimates for all projects. It is also responsible for
preparation of the annual budget of REA. It also reviews and approves all
expenses.
Technical Affairs Department. This Department is responsible for all technial
activities within REAo It is divided into five inspectorates:
a.   The Ins2ectorate for Medium and Low Voltage Networks engineers
and specifies equipment and materials for use in medium and
low tension work - 11-kV and below. It also follows up tech-
nical aspects and progress of project execution.
b.   The Inspectorate for High Voltage Networks supervises high
voltage projects - 33-kV and above - including preparation of
programs, specifications, participation in adjudications,
selection of equ'pment, fi-eld supervision, testing of equip-
ment and certification of contractors' invoices for payment.
c.   The Inspectorate for Civil Works and Surveying is responsible
for preparation of survey maps for lines, substations, villages
and towns0 It also surveys routes to prepare line profiles and
assist in negotiations of right-of-ways. This Inspectorate
also supervises execution of civil works for electrical in-
stallations, buildings, wfarehouses, and housing requirements
of the Authority.



ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 2
d.   The Inspectorate for Rehabilitation of Networks undertakes studies
for improving electricity supply to cities and towns. It prepares
bidding documents and specifications and participates in the pro-
curement of equipment and materials. It also supervises the in-
stallation and construction work, prepares reports related there-
to, witnesses equipment tests and certifies payment to contractors.
e.   The Inspectorate for Design is responsible for studies, planning
and engineering of electrical projects, including preparation of
bidding documents, specifications and drawings, staking sheets and
substation layouts. It also does all civil works design required
for REA Projects.
f.   Field Support Departments for Upper and Lower Egypt.  These two
Departments are responsible for ensuring timely delivery of equip-
ment and materials to construction crews in the field. They are
responsible for transportation, storage, and all other required
onsite facilities and logistics. In addition, they follow up on
construction progress and report accordingly. There are 16
Directorates in the two Departments, each Directorate is responsi-
ble for one Governorate. Upper level personnel in these two
Departments double as EEA supervisors for Operation and Maintenance
activities in their respective districts.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATCN PROJECT
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Income Statements for the Years Endinj December 31, 1973-80
(Thousands of LE
---------- ACTUAL--  --------               -------------------------PORECAST----------------------
1973          1974          1975             1976          1977          i27-          1979         1980
Salea of Electricity - GWh                         6,178        6,895          8,308            9,800        11,200         12,600        14,280       15,925
Average Revenue per kWh Sold (milliemes)            7.49          - 27          8.94             8.94          8.84          10.66         13.18        13.27
operating Revenues                                                                                                   '4i
Sales of Electricity                            46,292       50,121        74,303            87,612        99,008       134,316        188,210      211,325
Connection and Maintenance Charges               2,709        2,378          3,725            5,359         7,o84          8,217         9,427       10,724
Other Operating Revenues i/                      1,655        1,953         1,869             2,205         2,514         2,816         3,154         3,532
Total Operating Revenues                      50,656       54,452        79,897            95,176       108,606       145,349        200,791      225,581
Operating Expenses
7i~eland Lubricants                              6,765        7,135          9,344           11,173        12,760         14,478        16,803       21,801
Salaries and Wages                              12,150       13,862         16,421           17,596        21,115        23,226         25,549       28,104
Purchase of Materials and Services               6,143        5,847         9,873             4,232         8,879        13,506         16,612       17,797
Other Operating Expenses                         2,268        7,228        18,187             6,178         7,243         8,398          9,651       11,011
Depreciation                                    12,066       13,604         13,531           17,380        25,667         32,815        41,3074
Total Operating Expenses                      39,392       47,676        67,356            56,559        75,664        92,423        109,922      122,341
Operating Income                                  11,264        6,776        12,541            38,617        32,942        52,926         90,869      103,240
Ron-Operating Income (Loss)  2/                   (1,709)       (1,611)         (316)            (366)          (455)         (586)         (548)        (492)
Gross Income                                       9,555        5,165         12,225           38,251        32,487         52,340        90,321      102,748
Interest
Gross Interest                                   9,555         8,421        16,869           18,835         28,096        36,104        44,272       49,634
Less:  Interest Charged to Construction              -             -             -           (4,158)        (7,603)       (9,502)      (13,144)      (13,272)
Net Interest Expense                           9,555        8,421         16,869           14,677        20,493         26,602        31,128       36,362
Net Income                                             -        (3,256)       (4,644)          23,574         11,994        25,738        59,193        66,386
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service              312,015      307,715        304,929          368,358        556,717       784,728     1,008,340    1,146,082
Operating Income as a % Thereof                     3.61         2.20           4.11            10.48          5.92           6.75          9.01          9.01
l/ Includes meter rentals, sales of scrap, and revaluation of stocks, sales of gas and distilled water.
Includes income and expense adjustments for previous years, divldends from associated companies, compensation awarded against contractors or
consumers, and proceeds of sale of assets.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Balance Sheetsas of December 31, 1973-80
( Thousands of LE)
- ---        - ACTUAL--------------           ----------------------------- -FORBCAST ------------------------------
1973           1974           1975             1976            1977           1978              1979             1980
Assets
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets in Service                 414,932         421,921        435,801          579,341         855,566        1,093,844        1,376,912         1,454,264
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                (104,081)      (117,342)      (130,523)        (147,903)       (173,570)        (206,385)        (247,692)         (291,320)
Net Fixed Assets in Service                  310,851         304,579        305,278          431,438         681,6            887,459        1,1 220           1,162,944
Work iu Progress                                36,347         50,011         69,466           111,324        130,927          22196            224,978           359,9
Total Fixed Assets                           347,198         354,590        374,744          542,762         812,283        1,109,265        1,354,198         1,558,904
Investments                                       1,914           2,177          2,248              276             276              276              276               276
Long-Term Receivables                              5,626          5,506          5,778              419             419              419              419               419
Current Assets
Cash                                            12,368          9,603         14,859             2a,784        270313           4h,708            42,526           30,523
Inventories                                     25,212         32,221         44,798            49,905         54,019           58,469           62,870            67,490
Accounts Receivable                             59,093         63,970         8822195,993                      49,506           33,579            47,052           52.830
Total Current Assets                           96,673        105,794        147,878           174,682        130,838          136,756          152,448           150,843
Total Assets                                 451,411         468,o67        530,648           718,139        943,816        1,246,716         1,507,341        1,710,442
Liabilities
Caia  n  eserves
Cs1-pital  Reserves                             75,617         75,617         75,617             75,617        75,617           75,617            75,617           75,617
Reserves                                         7,421         11,455         31,336             32,503       113,425          168,480           221,319          268,165
eA  Reserves                                   13,622         10244           15,522            15,522         15,522           15,522           15,522            15,522
Retained Earnings                                           (3,256)        (7.90)           15,674         27,668           53,406          112,599           178 985
Total Capital and Reserves                     96,660         94,o60        114,575            139,316       232,232          313,025           I25,057
Long-Term Debt
TotsILo erm Debt                               322,334        322,292        347,060            495,470       641,992          846,192         1,006,411        1,094,009
Less: Debt Due Within 1 Year                   _ _            (13,221)       (19,763)           (19439)       'l',711)             4             (22080)(
Nret Long-Term Debt                           329,334        309,071        327,292            170T          oee2&             i2'4,712              ,      W3
Current Liabilities
CUrrent Portion of Long-Term Debt                NA            13,221         19,768             19,439        19,711            21,480           22,080            24,166
Accounts PSyable and Deferred Liabilities       21,206         47,007         63,981             77,415        62,823            79,715           67,054            68,311
Consumers' Deposits                              4.211          4,708          5.032              5,938         6,769             7,784            8,819             9.33
Total Current Liabilities                      25,417         64,936         88,781            102,792        89,0             108,979           97,3             102,30
Total Liabilities                             451,411        468,067        530,648            7183                          1,246,716        1,507,341         1.
Ratio.
iqtTzquity RAtio                                   77:23          77:23          75:25             78:22         73:27           73:27             70:               67:33
Current R&tio                                       3.8            1.6            1.7               1.7           1.5             1.3               IT                1.5
--Y 1977



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds 1976-80
(Thousands of LE)
TOTAL
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980    1976-80
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation
Gross Income                         38,251      32,487      52,340      90,321      102,748      316,147
Depreciation                         17,380      25,667      32,815      41,307       43,628      160,797
Total Internal Cash Generation   55,631        58,154      85,155    131,628      146,376      476,944
External Sources
Contributions from Ministry of
Housing & Reconstruction                        63,080      54,055      52,839       46,846      216,820
nS AID Grants                         1,167      17,842       1,000                                20,009
Pr6posea IERD Loan                                  667      11,339      16,008        3,986       32,000
Ministry of Finance                  30,401      21,812      74,587       7,563                   134,363
US AID Loans                                     18,973      42,996      69,624       58,080      189,673
Other Foreign Loans                  33,130      38,884      36,279      31,017       11,068      150,378
Total Borrowings                   63,531      80,336    165,201    124,212         72,483      505,763
Total Sources of Funds              120,329    219,412    305,411    308,679         266,356   1,220,187
Applications of Funds
Construction Raquirenents (incl.
Interest Charged to Construction)   80,751    208,896    259,748    212,745           207,804      969,944
Proposed Kegiona.  Electrification
Project 1/                              -             667     11,339      16,008        3.986       32.000
80,751    209,563    271,087    228,753        211,790   1,001.944
Debt Service
Amortization                         19,768      19,439      19,711      21,480       22,080      102,478
Interest (Net)                       14,677      20,493      26,602      31,128       36,362      129,262
Total Net Debt Service              34,445      39,932      46,313      52,608       58,442      231,740
Net Change in Working Capital            5,133    (30,083)   (11,989)    27,318          (3,876)    (13,497)
Total Applications of Fundo         12a0.V9    le9412    305.411    308.679                     1,220,187
Tinen Grosa Annu&l Do0at Serv:lae
Covcred by internal CnGh Gnaz ition   1o.4          1.2           1.5         2.0          2.0          1.7
2.1  r' :1. tcc: c ony Txniac        G .y - oQ    ?  Bank 1oE o
K,,y :L977



ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
A. Income Statement
1.        Sales of Electricity have been based on information furnished by EEA
which was subsequently modified by the Bank. We have assumed annual kWh sales
growth of 18% in 1976, 14.3% in 1977, 12.5% in 1978, 13.3% in 1979 and 11.5%
in 1980. Average revenue per unit sold for forecast years has been based on
estimates by customer category prepared by EEA's commercial department.
Tariffs are assumed to be unchanged through 1977 and increased thereafter by
20% in 1978 and 22.5% in 1979.
2.        Connection and Maintenance Charges were assumed to increase by the
same percentages as annual kWh sales of electricity. Maintenance charges were
based on forecast sales to Municipalities in kWhs at 1.5 milliemes per kWh.
3.        Other Operating Revenues were assumed to increase by the same per-
centages as annual kWh sales of electricity.
4.        Fuel and Lubricants were based on estimates of generation from steam
units and gas turbines using fuel prices and heat rates as follows:
(1) Fuel Prices:
Diesel fuel - LE 24.60 ton (gas turbines)
Fuel oil    - LE 7.50 ton (steam turbines)
(2) Heat Rates:
Gas turbines -   15,475 Btu   1 kWh
Steam turbines - 14,500 Btu   1 kWh (1976)
14,000 Btu   1 kWh (1977)
13,000 Btu   1 kWh (1978)
12,000 Btu   1 kWh (1979)
11,000 Btu   1 kWh (1980)
5.        Salaries and Wages in 1976 were based on EEA's budget estimate and
thereafter escalated by 20% in 1977, and 10% in each of 1978, 1979 and 1980.
No specific increases in staff were assumed since EEA is considered to be
overstaffed now.



ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 3
6.        Purchase of Materials and Services and Other Operating Expenses
were based on estimates furnished about October 1976 by EEA to the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development. An escalation factor of 10%/a was added
to the EEA estimates.
7.        Depreciation.  Gross fixed assets in service at the beginning of
each year were depreciated at an average annual rate of 3%/a.
8.        Non-Operating Income (Loss) represents the balance of non-operating
revenues and expenses as estimated by EEA in the October 1976 forecasts for
the Kuwait Fund.
9.        Interest was calculated at the rate of 5%/a on all loans from the
Ministry of Finance including funds provided to REA for rural electrifica-
tion. Interest on all existing foreign loans was based on EEA's actual cal-
culations. All new borrowing including USAID, suppliers' credits and Ministry
of Finance loans were assumed to be at an average interest rate of 5%/a (it
is expected that some of these funds e.g. USAID will be provided as grants
and others, particularly those obtained from neighboring OPEC countries, will
be on low interest terms). Interest at the rate of 5%/a was added to con-
struction costs of all generating plant until it was commissioned. The same
interest rate was added to the progressive costs of rural electrification
assets under construction through December 1976; these assets were planned
to be handed over financially to EEA as of December 1976.
B. Balance Sheet
10.       Gross Fixed Assets in Service are valued at historical cost.  They
do not reflect the findings of a committee which reviewed the valuation of
EEA's assets following acquisition of electricity assets after completion of
the High Dam in 1970. If the recommendations in the committee's report are
adopted they would increase the valuation of gross fixed assets in service by
about LE 22 million or 5%.
11.       Inventories were based on EEA's October 1976 estimates subject to
10%/a escalation.
12.       Accounts Receivables.  EEA's estimate for 1976 was accepted for the
Bank's forecast. Thereafter, it was assumed EEA would reduce the level of
outstandings to the equivalent of three months sales by the end of 1978.
13.       Reserves were increased each year by contributions received from
the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction and grants by USAID.
14.       Accounts Payable and Deferred Liabilities were estimated each year
on the basis of three months of annual capital expenditures and cash operating
expenses.



ANNEX 24
Page 3 of 3
15.       Consumers' Deposits were increased by the same precentages as kWh
sales of electricity.
C. Sources and Applications of Funds
16.       Contributions from the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction were
based on EEA's 5-Year Plan estimates.
17.       USAID Grant was for $30 million for power distribution equipment for
Suez cities. Disbursement was based on USAID estimates furnished to the Bank.
18.       Borrowings.  All foreign borrowings were converted to Egyptian pounds
using the parallel market rate of exchange of LE 1 = US$1.50. EEA's planned
borrowing program was adjusted to meet the needs of the construction program
which was revised by the Bank. The 1976 borrowing program was taken from EEA's
1976 budget estimates, and that for the years 1977 through 1980 from information
prepared by EEA from their 5-Year Plan estimates.
19.       Construction Requirements were based on EEA's estimates and escalated
using the Bank's February 1976 guidelines for price contingencies i.e.
1976     1977-79      1980
Equipment           9          8          7
Civil Works        13         12         10
The foreign costs of all construction were adjusted to the parallel market rate
of exchange which is now being used by EEA for recording purposes. (The
official rate of exchange is still used by Government for its 5-Year Plan
projections).
20.       Amortization of Long-Term Debt.  Ministry of Finance loans were
assumed repayable over 12 years after 3 years' grace. Amortization of USAID
loans was assumed to commence after the expiration of the 10 years' grace
period i.e. after 1980. Amortization of other existing foreign loans was
based on EEA's calculations. Other future foreign loans were all assumed to
be repayable after expiration of grace periods i.e. after 1980. Loans for
rural electrification were assumed to be non-repayable in accordance with
present Government policy except for the proposed Bank loan which is expected
to have a 4-1/2 year grace period. Therefore amortization on the Bank loan
would not commence until about December 1981.
May 1977



ANNEX 25
Page 1 of 12
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Project Load Forecast
The Load
1.        The Project is part of the second installment (1976-80) of REA's
National Rural Electrification Plan to rehabilitate and expand service in
urban areas and rural zones (Attachment 1) serving five different catego-
ries of consumers; namely:
a.   large-scale medium voltage industrial consumers;
b.   small-scale medium voltage industrial consumers;
c.   public agencies and enterprises, including street lighting;
d.   commercial and small shops; and
e.   residential consumers.
2.        Existing distribution already serves an estimated 72% of the popula-
tion available in the project area -- 80% in the urban centers and fringes and
60% in the rural zones (a detailed breakdown is given in Attachment 2). These
facilities have long been neglected in the past due to lack of financing and
are for the most part overloaded. No significant additional load can be
accommodated until after additonal system capacity is placed in service to up-
grade the existing system thereby allowing resumption of normal, unrestricted
load growth and extension of service to new consumers.
Load Growth
3.        The main immediate increase in consumption is assumed to come from
commercial and residential loads. However, in 5-10 years the Project area
may attract large blocks of irrigation loads and large industrial units. Al-
though the Project will not be totally completed until 1980, some incremental
load was assumed starting in 1978 as the completed portions of the Project
are progressively energized. In the absence of hard statistical data, the
mission assumed reasonable average consumption figures for 1976 as the
starting point for the load forecast, based on REA's estimates (Attachment 1)
and in line with historic trend samples (Attachments 3 and 4) and data obtained
elsewhere in the world for loads at a comparable stage of development (Attach-
ment 5). The figures were 100/kWh/household/month for the urban centers and
fringes, and 50 kWh/household/month for the rural zones.



ANNEX 25
Page 2 of 12
4.        Also in line with REA planning criteria, tables I - V of this Annex
show the figures resulting from a 10%/a growth rate applied to overall kWh con-
sumption. On that basis average Project load growth rate was about 23%/a.
5.        At the above rate the distribution facilities were loaded to capa-
city by 1989. At a 20% faster rate of load growth full system capacity would
be reached two years earlier, while a 20% lower rate of load growth would not
load up the facilities fully until 1992, three years later than the main
projection.
6.        Because of lack of sufficient statistical information the load pro-
jections developed here are at best estimates only. Sensitivity tests for + 10
variations in kWh sales were applied in Annex 27 to allow for uncertainty.



ANNEX 25
Page 3 of 12
Table I
Nine Urban Centers and Fringes
Population Estimates
------------- Population,'000            --------          -----Households, '000---
1/     with access         with          with access          with
Year        Total          to service        service          to service 2/   service
1976        2,288            1,830            1,647              366             329
1977        2,345            1,830            1,647              366             329 3/
1978        2,404            1,923            1,731              384             334
1979        2,464            1,971            1,774              394             345
1980        2,526            2,021            1,819              404             364
1981        2,589            2,071            1,864              414             373
1982        2,653            2,122           1,910               424             382
1983        2,720            2,176            1,958              435             392
1984        2,788            2,230            2,007              446             401
1985        2,857            2,286            2,057              457             411
1986        2,929            2,343            2,109              468             422
1987        3,002            2,402            2,162              480             432
1988        3,077            2,462            2,216              492             443
1989-2004   3,154            2,523            2,271              505             454
1/ Average growth rate, 2.5%/a.
2/ At average of five persons per household.
3/ No increase assumed until after Project facilities first become
available in 1978.
~4/ Only 30% of total assumed potential customers connected the first
year.
SOURCE: Mission estimates from REA data.



ANNEK 25
Page 4 of 12
Table II
Nine Urban Centers and Fringes
Load Projection
----Sales, million kWh----            -------Peak Demand, MW-------
Total                                 Total Peak
Year             Sales -         Incremental              Demand           Incremental
1976               395 2/                                  121
1977               395 3/                                  121
1978               407 4/             12                   122                    1
1979               445                40                   130                    9
1980               525               130                   150                   29
1981               578               183                   161                   40
1982               635               240                   173                   52
1983               699               304                   186                   65
1984               769               374                   200                   79
1985               846               451                   215                   94
1986               931               536                   231                  110
1987             1,024               629                   249                  128
1988             1,126               731                   268                  147
1989-2004        1,239               844                   289                  168
1/ Assumed increasing at 10%/a. average starting in 1978.
2/ At an average of 100 kWh per household per month.
3/ No growth assumed until Project facilities first are
available.
4/ Initially, only portion (30%) of available load is expected
to materialize.
SOURCE: Mission estimates from REA data.



ANNEX 25
Page 5 of 12
Table III
Fourteen Rural Zones
Population Estimates
_-------Population, '000 -----------           -----Households, '000-----
with access          with          with access            with
Year        Total           to service        service          to service 2       service
1976        1,507               904             633                151               106
1977        1,545               904             633                151               106 3/
1978        1,583               950             665                158              108 4/
1979        1,623               974             682                162               111
1980        1,663               998             699                166               117
1981        1,705             1,023             716                170              119
1982        1,748             1,049             734                175              122
1983        1,791             1,075             752                179              125
1984        1,836             1,102             771                184               128
1985        1,882             1,129             790                188               132
1986        1,929            1,157              810                193               135
1987        1,977             1,186             830                198              138
1988        2,027             1,216             851                203               142
1989-2004   2,077             1,246             872                208               145
1/ Average rate of growth, 2.5%/a.
2/ At an average of six persons per household.
3/ No increase assumed until after Project facilities
first become avrailable in 1978.
4/ Only 30% of total assumed potential customers connected
the first year.
SOURCE: Mission estimates baded on REA data.



ANNEX 25
Page 6 of 12
Table IV
Fourteen Rural Zones
Load Projection
---Sales, million kWh----             ----Peak Demand, MW 
Total                                Total Peak
Year           Sales -'       Incremental             Demand           Incremental
1976             91 2/                                  38
1977             91                                     38
1978             94 4               3                   40                   2
1979           102                 11                   43                   5
1980           121                 30                   46                   8
1981           133                 42                   49                  11
1982            146                55                   52                  14
1983            161                70                   55                  17
1984            177                86                   59                  21
1985            195               104                   63                  25
1986            214               123                   68                  30
1987            236               145                   73                  35
1988            260               169                   78                  40
1989-2004       286               195                   84                  46
1/  Assumed increasing at 102/a. average starting in 197D.
1/  At an average of 50 kWh per household per month.
3/  No growth assumed until Project facilities first are available.
4/  Initially only a portion (30X) of available load is expected to
materialize.
SOURCE: Mission estimates from REA data.



ANNEX 25
Page 7 of 12
Table V
Total Project
Project Load
Year                 Sales, million kWh               Peak Demand, MW
1976
1977
1978                           15                              3
1979                           61                             14
1980                          160                             37
1981                          225                             51
1982                          295                             66
1983                          374                             82
1984                          460                            100
1985                          555                            119
1986                          659                            140
1987                          774                            163
1988                          900                            187
1989-2004                   1,039                            214 -'
1/ Maximum load capacity of distribution facilities.
SOURCE: Mission estimates from REA data.



ANNEX 25
Attachment 1
APPhAISAL 01 A 1iEOzuAL ILICTEIFICATION PROJPCT                              Page a  of 12
EGPT
Estimated Population and Annual Consouption per Capita, 1976
Total Consumption
Population                   kWh/Capita                         Million kWh
A. Nine Urban Centers
and Fringes
1. Damietta
a.  Town                     110,499                       200                                 22.1
b.  Fringes                   78,370                       100                                  7.8
2. Et Mahalla
a.  Town                     288,413                       200                                 57.7
b.  Fringes                   47,249                       100                                  4.7
3. Tanta
a.  Town                     294,372                       225                                 66.2
b.  Fringes                  117,340                       100                                 11.7
4. El Mansoura
a.  Town                     245,068                       200                                 49.0
b.  Fringes                  102,808                       100                                 10.2
5.  Fuwa (Fowa) 1/
a.  Town                      35,237                       200                                  7.0
b .  Fringes                  67,921                       100                                  6.8
6.  El Fayum
a.  Town                     171.028                       100                                 17.1
b.  Fringes                   11,648                       100                                  1.2
7.  El Minya (El Miniah) V
a.  Town                     144,102                       100                                 14.4
b.  Fringes                   89,999                       100                                  9.0
8. Assyout (Assiut) 1/
s.  Town                     197,064                       100                                19.7
b.  Fringes                  110,108                       100                                11.0
9. Aswan
a.  Town                     163,320                       150                                16.3
b.  Fringes                   13,784                       100                                  1.4
TOTAL              2.288.330                       146                                333.3
B.  Fourteen Rural Zones
1.  El Hosaneyah                 116,843                       100                                11.7
(El Hussinieh) 1/
2.  Talkha                       102,103                       100                                10.2
3.  Shirbin                      132,008                       100                                13.2
4.  El HMunalas (El Mosalas4   46,570                          100                                  4.7
5.  Rashid                        79,972                       100                                 8.0
6.  El Mahrousa                   80,572                       100                                 8.0
7.  El Waste                      51,$79                       100                                 5.2
8. Awled Touk (Awlad Tuk) 1/   84,855                          100                                 8.5
9.  El Aakab                      74,518                       100                                 7.5
10.  Kafr Seed                     53,351                       100                                 5.3
11.  Kotour                       153,624                       100                                15.4
12.  Manfalut                     143,632                       100                                14.4
13.  Dairut                       191,756                       100                                19.2
14.  Akhin                        195,203                       100                                19.5
TOTAL              1       6100                                                      150.8
1/ New Spelling.
SOURCE: Rural Electrification Authority (REA)



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Project Description and Population Affected
-------Rehabilitation of Existing Services -------         -----Extension of Service and New Consumers------             Total  /       Percent           Percent
Cities      Villages       Hamlets       Population        Cities       Villages       Hamlets       Population       Population       Served Now       New Services
a) Urban Centers and Fringes                 9             85            _          1,830,664           -             83            230            457,666        2,288,330          80                20
b) Rural Zones                              12            105            _            903,952           -            159            706            602.634        1.506.586          60               40
21           190                        2,734,616                       242            936          1,060,300        3,794,916          72                28
1/ 1976 estimate.
SOURCE: Mission estimates from data supplied by REA.
ID 0
o !a @
`0R



ANNEX 25
Attahment 3
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT                                           Page 10 of 12
EGYPT
Population and Sales of Electricity
for Five Towns in Lower Egypt. 1972-1975
TOWN                                            1972                1973                  1974                 1975
1.  Damietta
Population                                100,111             102,613              105,178              107,807
Sales, million kWh                             16.8                18.6                  20.7                 26.1
kWh/Capita                                    168                 181                   198                  242
2.  El Hahalla
Population                                261,303             267,835              274,530               281,393
Sales, million kWh                             25.2                27.6                  29.6                 35.8
kWh/Capita                                     96                 103                   108                  127
3.  Tanta
Population                                266,702             273,369              280,203               287,208
Sales, million kWh                             43.9                43.6                  52.4                 60.0
kWh/Capita                                    165                 159                   187                  209
4.  El Mansoura
Population                                222,031             227,581              233,270               239,101
Sales, million kWh                             41.3                37                    33.7                 38.4
kWh/Capita                                    186                 162                   144                  161
5. Fuwa (Fowa) 1/
Population                                 35,547              36,435               37,345                38,276
Sales, million kWh                              3.0                 3.6                  39                    4.0
kWh/Capita                                     84                   99                  104                  104
TOTALS:
Population                    885,694             907,833              930,526              953,787
Sales, million kWh                130.2               130.4                 140.3                164.3
kWh/Capita                        147                 144                   151                  172
1/ New Spelling.
SOURCE:  Rural Electrification Authority (REA)



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Brief Sampling of Electricity Consumption in Rural Zones, 1972-1975
Menufiya Governorate, 95% Electrified
1972       1973        1974         1975       1976               Remarks
Menshat
No. of Customers                   12           17         26           35                 3 small shops.
Total kWh                       2,188        9,872      6,513       14,457
kWh/household                     182          580        250          413
El Sokaria
No. of customers                  119          119        119          119                 2 small shops.
Total kWh                      18,875       43,104    40,532        43,878
kWh/household                     158          362        341          368
Shoubra bass
No. of customers                   21          151        183          207      243        39 small shops and one
Total kWh                      31,168       45,356   107,667      117,667                  8-500 KW load in 1976.
kWh/household                   1,481          432        588          553
Betibs
No. of  customers                 262          262        262          262                 1 small shop.
Total kWh                      63,969      113,450    96,718      109,810
kWh/household                     244          433        369          419
TOTALS
No. of customers                  414          549        590          623                                           .
Total kWh                     116,200      211,782   251,782      285,812                                      LFI
kWh/household                     281          386        426          459
SOURCE: Rural Electrification Authority (REA)



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Level and Growth of Consumer Demand in Urban and Rural Areas
for Various Countries 1/
Demand per consumer, kilowatt-             Annual rate of growth
hour per year 2/                         of demand
Rural            Urban                Rural            Urban
(%)              (%)
Costa Rica                    1,900             6,000                20                10
El Salvador                   1,000             4,000                20                10
Ethiopia                         800            2,000                40                15
India                         1,000              n.a.                15                10
Thailand                         200            4,000              12-20               22
1/ Estimates--the data are purely illustrative and are not averages.
2/ Rural data are for selected areas; urban data are for capital cities
except for Thailand, which is an average.
SOURCE: "Rural Electrification"', a World Bank Publication, October 1975,
Table 8, page 25.
OQ rt
0tIt11
May 1977
mlui
0 0
t'3 r



ANNEX 26
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Comparison of Supply Alternatives
General
1.        This Annex reviews the least cost source of supply for the proposed
Project. As presently planned by the REA all the Project loads would be con-
nected to the EEA unified power system. The only reasonable alternative to
central system supply would be diesel engine generating sets supplying each
Rural Zone or group of Zones.
2.        To check the proposed central supply solution, an analysis was made
of the costs of supplying the Zone of El Aakab over a period of 25 years, the
assumed useful life of the distribution facilities. Al Aakab Zone includes
the village of El Aakab in addition to two other villages and 22 hamlets in
the immediate vicinity. The Zone is located some 22 km due North from Aswan
in an area of extreme rural poverty. It is electrically and physically remote
from the central system, has no electric service at present and represents the
least favorable situation for central system supply among the rural zones.
In the proposed Project the El Aakab Zone would be fed from Aswan over a 33-kV
line and a 33/11-kV stepdown substation.
3.        The two alternatives compared were:
a.   A 22-km long 33-kV line to tap the existing bulk supply system
at Aswan and supply El Aakab Zone through a distribution sub-
station rated 10 MVA, 33/11-kV; and
b.   a diesel engine generating station at the village of El Aakab
located approximately at the same point in the system as the
distribution substation above. The 11-kV distribution system
for the Zone would, therefore, be identical in both cases and
need not be considered further.
Load Projections
4.        The Zone load was projected using the same procedure applied to
the combined 14 Rural Zones in Annex 25. However, since there is no service
in El Aakab at present, the potential, instead of actual load for 1976, was
estimated and used as the starting point. The load was assumed to grow
thereafter up to the maximum load-carrying capability of the distribution
system at the annual rates of growth for population and load proposed by
REA - 2.5% and 20%, respectively. The resulting load projection is shown
in Attachment 1.



ANNEX 26
Page 2 of 4
5.        Peak demand is seen growing from 1500 kW in 1980 -- the first year
of operation - to 3559 kW in 1989. Sales rise from 5.4 to 12.9 million kWh
during the same period. For the purpose of the analysis, load was assumed to
cease growing after 1989 and sales were considered constant from then on to
2004, the end of the 25-year study period.
Cost of Central System Supply
6.        The costs of the 33-kV transmissison line and the 33/11-kV substation
were taken from the unit costs in Annex 16.
22 km of single circuit 33-kV line                   220,000
El Aakab substation 10 MVA, 33/11-kV                 455,000
Direct Cost                                     675,000
Engineering, 7%                                       47,000
Subtotal                                        722,000
Physical Contingency, 10%                             72,200
Total Cost                                      794,000
7.        For reasons of standardized purchasing practices in REA calling for
specific modular sizes, the substation rating was chosen as 10 MVA and the
33-kV line dimensioned accordingly. However, only half of that capacity is
needed for El Aakab Zone alone to adequately take care of the projected load.
Therefore, only half of the total costs above was allocated to the Zone in
the analysis.
8.        Operation and maintenance (O&M) of the central system facilities
was taken as .4 millimes/kWh for generation and .2 milliemes/kWh for trans-
mission.
9.        The incremental sources of generation will be steam and combustion
turbine stations in a 80/20 ratio as currently planned (Annexes 7 and 8).
All generation will be fueled by associated gas gathered, transmitted and
processed for this purpose instead of continuing the present wasteful practice
of flaring it at the wellhead. Generation was assumed as being produced
by a composite station having a net station heat rate (NSHR) of 11,347 Btu/
kWh resulting from 80% steam and 20% combustion turbine with NSHR's of 10,315
and 15,475 Btu/kWh, respectively. The economic cost of fuel was assumed at
US$20/ton (504 per million Btu) as has been established by the consultant for
the UNDP Power Sector survey resulting in a fuel cost of 3.78 milliemes/kWh.
10.       The estimated capital costs of generation are 165 LE/kW for combus-
tion turbines and 323 LE/kW for steam-turbine stations based on non-escalated,



ANNEX 26
Page 3 of 4
early 1976 prices, but including physical contingencies. The estimated
transmission was taken as 60 LE/kW. Allowing for 10% peak load loss and 15%
reserve margin the effective cost per kW of generation becomes 368 LE/kW. The
existing gereration and transmission facilities together with the sizeable
expansJon urderway wili provide ample excess capacity to accommodate the
incremental load contributed by Al Aakab Zone. On the other hand, when
additional system capacity is installed starting in 1982 and 1984, for trans-
mission and generation, respectively, the incremental investment required will
be allocated proportionally. This has the effect of deferring up to the above
dates the incremental investment costs of central system supply in the trans-
mission and generation cost streams.
110       Transmission losses up to and including the El Aakab distribution
substation were taken as 7%.
i2.       A summary of central system supply costs is shown in Attachment 2.
Cost of Diesel Engine Generation
13.       The diesel engine station would be equipped with 3-1,000 kW units
initially, foYloued by two more additional units of the same size as required
to meet the load growth up to 1989. The size of the station remains constant
from then on to the end of the study through timely scheduling of replacements.
Useful plant life remaining at the end of the study period is taken into ac-
count in the cost stream as credit for salvage value. The cost of diesel units
was taken as 300 LE/kW and useful engine life as 10 years. Diesel fuel was
priced at US$1140 40/ton representing its export value as reported in Phase I
of the UNPD Power Sector Survey. Fuel cost of generation was calculated taking
NSIIR as 10,428 Btu/kWh.  Generation O&M costs were taken as 2.7 milliemes/kWh.
140       The cost of supply with diesel engine generators is considerably
higher as shown in Attachment 3, due mainly to the high cost of fuel.
Comoarison of Alternatives
150       The cos. comparison summarized in Attachment 4 shows that the central
system supply is the least cost alternative at any discount rates considered
(6 to 16%).  The present worth of savings with central system supply for the
Zone of El Aakab over a period of 25 years would be LE 1,620,979 at 12% dis-
count rate.
160       Since the sample zone selected is the most remote from the bulk
supply system in terms of distance and load, it follows that central system
supply would yield similar or greater savings for other Rural Zones in the
Project, and that supplying the Project from the central system is the least
cost alternative.



ANNEX 26
Page 4 of 4
Irrigation Pumping Load
17.       Undoubtedly one of the most important future loads for the Project
facilities in the Rural Zones will be irrigation pumping now powered with
diesel engines or animal drive (bullocks) depending on the size of the in-
stallation. The larger pumps are driven by diesel engines burning light
distillate #2 at US$114.40 a ton, while bullocks drive small (1-1/2-3 HP)
low-lift units spread out all over the countryside. Although there were no
statistics readily available to make even a superficial comparative evalua-
tion, the findings of the above analysis would strongly suggest considerable
economic advantages in favor of electric drive -- at least for the larger
pumps -- on the basis of fuel cost differential alone.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Comparison of Alternative Load Projection for El Aakab Zone
1976            1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         1987          1988          1989
1. Load Froiection
Population, '000              74,518          82,254       84,310       86,418        88,578       90,793       93,062       95,389       97,774       100,218       102,724
Sales, kWh x 103               3,726           5,455        6,001        6,601         7,261        7,987        8,786        9,664       10,631        11,694        12,863
kWh/capita                        50              66            71          76            82           88           94          101          109           117           125
Average W/capita                    5.7             7.5          8.1          8.7          9.4         10.0         10.7         11.5         12.4           13.4          14.3
Peak W/capita                     46              60           65            70           75           80           86           92            99           107           114
Aggregate Peak, kW             3,428           4,935         5,480        6,049        6,643        7,263        8,003        8,776        9,680         10,723        11,710
Diversified Peak
Demaed, kW 1/                  1,042            1,500        1,666        1,839        2,019        2,208        2,432        2,667        2,942         3,259          3,559
2. Required Generating Capacity. kW
a. Diesel Engine Sets
- Installed Capacity
3 x 1,000                           3,000         3,000        3,000        3,000        3,000        3,000        3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000
1 x 1,000                                                                   1,000        1,000        1,000        1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000
1 x 1,000                                                                                                                                      1.000         1.000
3,000   3,000  3,000      4,000        4,000        4,000        4,.0-00       4,5-00a       5,000         5,000
- From Power                               2,000        2,000         2,000        3,000        3,000        3,000        3,000         3,000         4,000         4,000
b. Central System 2/                            1,898        2,107        2,326        2,554        2,793        3,076        3,374         3,721         4,123         4,502
1/ Diversity factor: 3.29.
2/ Including allowance for 10 percent peak load loss and 15 percent reserve.
n
IT,



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJCT
EGYPT
Comparison of Supply Alternatives, Central System Supply Cost, LE
------------------------------Incremental Generation-----------------------               Incremental Transmission
Year                        kW -/            kWh 2/           Capital 3/             & M             Fuel               Capital           0t & M             Cot
1978                                                                                                                    119,000                             119,000
1979                                                                                                                    198,000                             198,000
1980                      1,898             6,572                                 2,629             24,842               80,000           1,212             108,683
1981                        209             7,230                                 2,892             27,329                                1,334              31,555
1982                        219             7,953             162,553             3,181             30,062              110,340           1,467             307,603
1983                        228             8,748             406,382             3,499              33,007              10,800           1,613             455,361
1984                        239             9,623             243,829              3,849             36,375              11,340           1,775             297,168
1985                        283            10,586              82,353             4,234             40,015               13,440           1,952             141,994
1986                        298            11,463              86,718             4,657              44,010              14,100           2,148             151,633
1987                        347            12,808             100,977             5,123              48,414              16,500           2,362             173,376
1988                        402            14,089             116,982             5,636              53,290              19,020           2,599              197,572
1989                        379            15,498             110,289              6,199             58,582              18,000           2,858              195,928
1990 - 2004                                15,498                                  6,199             58,582                                2,858              67,639
I/  Includes 10 percent peak load loss and 15 percent reserve margin.                                                                                                                   rt|
21  Includes 17 percent system (T & D) losses.
3/ At LB 36B/kW including peak load loss (10%) and reserve margin (15%).
4/ At .4 uillie estkWh.
5/ At 3.78 islliemes/kWh.
6/ Includes Substransmission and Distribution Substation capacity.
7/ At .2 dilliemes/kWh.



APPRAISAL OP A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT                                                        ANNEX 26
Attachmeint 3
Comparison of Supply Alternatives Isolated Generation (Diesel Engine Sets) Supply Costs. LE
----------Generation ---------------                  --------Total Costs-------
Isolated           Central      Cost of Isolated Generation
Year                      Capital -        0 & M 21          Fuel 3/            Generation           Supply        in excess of Central Supply
1978                                                                                                 119,000               -119,000
1979                     600,000                                                  600,000            198,000                402,000
1980                      300,000          16,365           120,493               436,858            108,683                328,175
1981                                       18,003           132,560                150,563            31,555                119,008
1982                                       19,803           145,780                165,583           145,050                205,330
1983                      300,000          21,783           160,372               428,155             48,979                379,176
1984                                       23,961           176,415                200,376           866,102               -665,726
1985                                        26,358           194,069               220,427           141,994                 78,433
1986                                       28,992           214,465                243,457           151,633                 91,824
1987                                        31,895          234,823                266,716           173,376                 93,340
1988                      300,000           35,082          258,301                593,383           197,527                395,856
1989                      600,000           28,589          284,125                922,714           195,928                726,786
1990                      300,000           28,589          284,125                622,714            67,639                555,075
1991                                        28,589          284,125                322,714            67,639                255,075
1992                                        28,589          284,125                322,714            67,639                255,075
1993                      300,000           28,589          284,125                622,714            67,639                555,075
1994                                        28,589          284,125                322,714            67,639                255,075
1995                                        28,589          284,125                322,714            67,639                255,075
1996                                        28,589          284,125                322,714            67,639                255,075
1997                                        28,589          284,125                322,714            67,639                255,075
1998                      300,000           28,589          284,125                622,714            67,639                555,075
1999                      600,000           28,589          284,125                922,714            67,639                855,075
2000                      300,000           28,589           284,125               622,714            67,639                555,075
2001                                        28,589           284,125               322,714            67,639                255,075
2002                                        28,589           284,125               322,714            67,639                255,075
2003                      300,000           28,589           284,125               622,714            67,639                555,075
2004                     -840,000           28,589           284,125              -517,286            67,639               -449,647
1/ At 300 LE/kW.
2/ At 2.7 millieme/kwh.
3/ At 19.88 milliemes/kWh -- fuel at $114.40/ton and NSHR of 10,428 Btu/kWh
Generation includes 10 percent distribution losses.
4/ Salvage value.



ANNEX 26
Attachment 4
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Comparison of Supply Alternatives Present Value Summary
----Present Value of Costs, LE '000---
Savings
Discount Rate                                                                      with Central
Percent                    Central System           Isolated Supply             System Supply
6                         2,074,195                 5,152,519                  3,078,324
8                         1,819,172                 4,257,278                  2,438,106
10                         1,615,392                 3,584,646                  1,060,254
12                         1,449,668                 3,070,647                  1,620,979
14                         1,312,788                 2,671,408                  1,358,620
16                         1,198,180                 2,356,430                  1,158,250
May 1977



ANNEX 27
Page 1 of 6
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
1.        The internal economic rate of return (IER) on the Project is the
discount rate which equalizes the present values of the time streams of the
attributable costs and benefits over the Project's life. The period adopted
for the calculation was 1978-2004, on the assumption that the Project would
have an economic life of 25 years after being totally completed and energized
starting in 1980. The relevant costs and benefits are the incremental costs
and benefits to the economy resulting from the Project, to the extent that
these can be identified, as described below.
A. Costs
2.        The incremental costs attributable to the Project comprise the
following:
Project Costs
3.        These are the non-escalated capital costs and the operating and
maintenance (O&M) costs of the Project at 1976 prices, adjusted for shadow
pricing of unskilled labor, which was valued at 50% of its financial cost
in view of the high unemployment and underemployment in Egypt.
Generation and Transmission Costs
4.        The EEA will incur additional capital, O&M and fuel expenses in
order to meet the additonal load resulting from the Project.  At first, the
existing generation and transmission facilities together with the massive
expansion program already underway will provide enough excess capacity to
accommodate the incremental load contributed by the Project.  Later on,
however, additional capital expense will be incurred to provide the capacity
allocated to meet the Project loads. The planned system expansion program and
associated costs are shown in Annex 14.
5.        The incremental cost of transmission is 60 LE/kW of subtransmission
and distribution substations, 90 LE/kW and of generation 165 LE/kW and 323
LE/kW for gas turbine and steam turbine stations, respectively. Allowing for
10% peak load loss and 15% reserve margin the effective cost per kW of incre-
mental generation becomes 368 LE/kW for a composite unit as defined below.
6.        System transmission and distribution losses (T&D) were taken as 17%.
Incremental generation would come from new steam and gas turbine plants in an
80/20 ratio. Therefore, fuel expense would be based on a composite net station



ANNEX 27
Page 2 of 6
heat rate (NSHR) of 11,347 Btu/kWh resulting from proportional contributions
of the steam units with a NSHR of 10,315 Btu/kWh and the gas turbine units
with an NSHR or 15,475 Btu/kWh.
7.        All incremental generation would be fueled by natural gas produced in
association with petroleum. Up to nov this gas has been wastefully flared at
the wellhead. However, the consultants for the UNDP Power Sector Survey re-
ported recently that EEA is definitely planning to use associated gas in the
future for power generation in addition to the other industrial uses being
considered.
8.        Fuel expense was calculated using the economic value of flared gas
established by the consultant as US$20/ton (50/million Btu), see Attachment 1.
The economic value is the opportunity cost of flared gas as measured by its
value in applications other than when burned as fuel. These other uses could
be feedstock for production of petrochemicals, or export as liquified natural
gas. Recent studies made for Saudi Arabia give the economic value of flared
associated gas as ranging from 22-40 USe per million Btu delivered, appro-
priately processed for boiler firing. The higher, more up-to-date value
suggested by the Power Survey consultant was adopted as being more realistic
and more directly applicable to Egypt, Nevertheless, the effects of assuming
higher and lower fuel costs were also tested.
9.        Generation O&M costs were taken as .4 milliemes/kWh and transmission
O&M costs as .2 milliemes/kWh. Distribution O&M expense including administra-
tion, billing and collection was taken as 2 milliemes/kWh in line with informa-
tion supplied by REA.
B. Benefits
10.       The benefits attributable to the Project comprise the following:
(a) revenues accruing to the municipalities or distribution companies
from the sale of electricity through the Project facilities. To
avoid double counting, revenues from sales where the benefits
were measured by the resource cost-savings through substitution
of electricity ((b) below) were appropriately deducted;
(b) resource cost-savings to the economy, to the extent that these
could be quantified, through the substitution of electricity
supplied by the Project for alternative energy sources; and
(c) connection charges received by the municipalities or distribution
companies from new customers supplied by the Project.
These are considered in turn below.



ANNEX 27
Page 3 of 6
Revenues from Sales of Power
11.       The Project includes the installation of facilities for electrifica-
tion and rehabilitation of nine urban areas and fourteen rural zones to serve
five different categories of consumers; namely:
(a) Large-scale medium voltage industrial consumers.
(b) Small-scale medium voltage industrial consumers.
(c) Public agencies and enterprises, including street lighting.
(d) Commercial and small shops.
(e) Residential consumers.
The main increase in consumption is assumed to come from the commercial and
residential consumers. However, in 5-10 years the areas may attract electric
irrigation and larger industrial units.
12.       The forecasting of revenues from the Project is based on (a) an esti-
mate of the price level of electric energy, and (b) an estimate of the amount
of kilowatthours sold at the price level. The sales forecasts for the Project
assume that the price level is fixed to that of the year 1976. As almost 100%
of the sales attributable to the Project will come from commercial and residen-
tial consumers, their rates are the relevant ones. They are: 1/
(a) The first 45 kWh are billed at no more than 22.5 milliemes/kWh
(including 1 millieme tax for radio and television and 5
milliemes fiscal tax).
(b) The excess over 45 kWh per month are billed at 15.0 milliemes/
kWh (including 5 milliemes fiscal tax).
13.       Given this price level and the assumptions made for kWh consumption
per household (Annex 25), an average price of 20 milliemes was assumed as
revenue per kWh sold through the Project.
Resource Cost Savings
14.       Some of the consumption will result from the substitution of elec-
tricity for other sources of energy, resulting in corresponding resource cost
1/   There exists certain rates for commercial and small shops (22.347
milliemes/kWh for 0-45 kWh/month and 18.947 milliemes/kWh for more
than 45 kWh/month). however, they have never been applied.



ANNEX 27
Page 4 of 6
savings. It was not possible to identify all these cases of substitution and
quantify the reaziting cost savings but reasonably reliable estimates could
be made in the case of electricity supplied to new customers for household
lighting. In this case it was found that the resource cost savings exceeded
the value of the corresponding power revenues, the excess representing surplus
benefits from the point of view of the economy. The resource cost savings were
calculated as described below, and the net benefit - after deducting the value
of the corresponding power revenue - attributable to the substitution was taken
as the measure of benefits, rather than the power revenues themselves. For
this purpose, household lighting was assumed to consume an average of 15 kWh
per household per month, a figure consistent with the expected average con-
sumption in newly connected households.
15.       The alternative to electricity for household lighting in the newly
connected homes is kerosene. A non-electrified house uses about 1/2 liter of
kerosene a day for lighting, equivalent to four US gallons per month. (Brief
field sampling by the mission revealed villagers near El Aakab spend LE 0.90
*per month per household for kerosene--the cost of about 9 US gallons at cur-
rent domestic prices. The extra 5 gallons must be used for cooking.) The
opportunity cost of kerosene is taken at its foreign exchange value, currently
US$150.70 per ton (LE 0.3417 per US gallon) as reported in the UNDP Power
Sector Survey Phase I Report (see Attachment 2). It is reasonable to expect
this will be a long-term value of kerosene. In any case sensitivity tests
were made to investigate the effects of lower kerosene prices. The resulting
annual fuel cost saving per household is calculated for the period of the study
as shown in Attachments 3 and 4.
Connection Charges
16.       Connection charges have been used previously just to cover the costs
of connecting each single consumer to the distribution network. These charges
have been about LE 3 per consumer per year. It seems reasonable to assume that
the revenues from these charges will continue to cover the corresponding costs.
Consequently, both of these items have been left out when calculating the
internal rate of return of the Project.
Cost and Benefit Streams
17.       The annual cost and benefit streams resulting from the above calcu-
lations are shown in Attachments 5, 6 and 7 to this Annex.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
18.       As shown in Attachment 5, a comparison of the costs and benefits
described above results in an internal economic rate of return (IER) on the
whole project of not less than 10.2%. For the urban centers and rural zones
taken separately, the IER's are 12.6% and 4.2% respectively (Attachments 6 and



ANNEX 27
Page 5 of 6
7).  The sensitivity of the IER's obtained above was tested for variations
in assumptions regarding the main variables in the calculation, i.e. volume
of sales, capital costs, value of associated gas and value of kerosene fuel.
Attachment 8 shows that if the volume of sales falls 10% less than the main
load projection, the IER for the urban centers falls to 11.0% and to 3.2% for
the rural zones. With an increase of 10% in capital costs, the IER for the
urban centers decreases to 11.0% and to 3.2% for the rural zones. For asso-
ciated gas costs 10% higher, the IER becomes 12.0% for the urban centers and
3.8% for the rural zones. With 10% lower value of kerosene, the resulting
IER is 12.4% for the urban centers and 4.0% for the rural zones. Similarly,
a, 10% increase in estimated sales raised the expected IER's to 11.4%, 14.4%
and 5.2% for the overall Project, the urban centers and the rural zones,
respectively. Tariff increases of 20%, which it is not thought would have a
significant effect on demand, would improve the resulting IER's to 17.8% for
the urban centers and 6.8% in the rural zones. However, as shown above the
calculated IER's in all cases are relatively insensitive to probable varia-
tions in other key parameters.
Unquantifiable Benefits
19.       Possible resource cost savings through substitution of electricity
for diesel engine drives in irrigation pumping and drinking water supply
would increase the benefits attributable to the Project in the rural zones.
Large irrigation components of load generally favor the economics of electri-
fication projects in rural regions. The additional benefits should be further
investigated when better statistics are put together by REA.
20.       Other tangible benefits not readily quantifiable are:
-    Increased labor manhours made available because residential
illumination from electric lamps allows additional incentive
to do more cooking, laundry, repair works and social functions
during non-daylight hours.
-    Increased productivity due to usage of electric power tools
and equipment in commercial establishments.
-    Increased labor manhours made available on a "per household"
basis from large potable water supply pumping installations.
The time required each day per household to obtain drinking
water and water for sanitation requirements will be saved by
each household.



ANNEX 27
Page 6 of 6
21.       Other less tangible benefits from the Project in the areas to be
newly electrified area:
-    Increased quality of home life through use of electric light
illumination and electric appliances for convenience.
-    Increased availability  for educational radio and television
programs to promote literacy and general education.
-    Increase stree illumination to increase security and ease of
movement after dark.
May 1977



ANNEX 27
Attachment I
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Notes on Associated Natural Gas
Energy Economics and Tariffs
1.        The Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) estimates of the
reserves of the three gas fields being tapped by pipeline systems to serve
Alexandria, Cairo and the Delta total 62 billion m3, sufficient for 20 years
production at 9 million m3 per day. Other gas fields have been located in
the Delta, and EGPC projects that by 1980 the total gas field reserves will
be increased to nearly 300 billion m3. This volume of gas would allow the
intertying of the three existing pipeline systems and the replacement of oil
as boiler fuel not only in the three strations near Alexandria now being con-
structed for gas firing, Abu kir (600 MW), Damanhour (225 MW) and Kfr El
Dawar (220 MW), but also in the two major Cairo stations, Cairo South (240
MW) and Cairo West (348 MW).
2.        Discussions in the Ministry of Petroleum indicated that they would
welcome an immediate request from the Ministry of Electricity for a gas supply
to the Cairo South station which is adjacent to the just completed and under-
utilized pipeline from the Abu El Gharadek gas field. The request should
state the cost and earlier possible date for gas firing conversion, and the
years of gas supply required to justify the conversion. A simple economic
justification can utilize the $40/ton differential between the price of gas
$20 from abu El Gharadek) and the export value of the fuel oil replaced
($60/ton). The added gas consumption of Cairo South will allow full utiliza-
tion of the Abu El Gharadek gas system and the LPG stripping plant during the
next five years while planned new gas consuming industries are bieng con-
structed. Even before that date the opening of new Delta gas fields should
allow continued gas firing of not only Cairo South but Cairo West.
3.        EGPC's estimate of associated gas flaring volumes in the Gulf of
Suez oil fields near Ras Gharib indicate that the equivalent of 1.4 million
tons of oil is being flared this year and is projected by EGPC to rise to
3.6 million tos in 1980 and 4.2 million tons in 1990, declining rapidly
thereafter unless new fields are found. As noted in our September Progress
Report plans should be made now to utilize these large volumes of wasted gas
as soon as possible at Ras Gharib in industry and in a major electric generat-
ing station.
Source: Sanderson & Porter, Inc., Field Team, UNDP Power Sector Survey,
November 1976 monthly report.



ANNEX 27
Attachment 2
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Egyptian Petroleum Prices
(September 1976)
Export
Domestic Price/Ton      Export    Price
US$*      Price,    as a %
LE          Equiv.    US$/Ton    Domestic
Crude Oil
General Petroleum Company (Gharib)  11.90            17.90       67.50        380
Oriental Company                       5.50           8.30       81.20        980
Gupco (Morgan, July, Ramadan)          6.90          10.40       81.40        780
Wepco (Western Desert)                 9.10          13.70       81.20        590
Products
L.P.G.                                52.00          78.00      165.00        210
Regular Gasoline                      86.80         130.20      257.60       200
Premium Gasoline                     112.00         168.00      286.30       170
Naphtha                               25.70          38.50      122.30       320
Kerosine                              31.50          47.30      150.70       320
Gas Oil                               80.00         120.00     115.30         96
Diesel Oil                            24.60          36.90     114.40        310
Residual Fuel Oil                      7.50          11.30      62.70        550
Lube Oil                             250.00         375.00   1,040.10        280
Bitumen                               17.00          25.50      55.90        220
*  Estimated at the Parallel market exchange rate of  1.00 = US$1.50
Source: Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation.



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Resource Cost Savings. Household Lighting, Urban Centers and Fringes
1/               2/                       ~~~      ~~~~~~~31  Net Resource
------Population, '000              Served Households-   '000          Kerosene Saved-/        Electricity Used          Cost Savings
Year                 with access to           with                           new                                          Price
electricity          service        Total         Connections       ___  LE '000                   LE '000                  LE '000
1978                     1,923               1,731          334                5                      82                     18                       64
1979                     1,971               1,774          345               16                    262                     58                       204
1980                     2,021               1,819          364               35                     574                    126                      448
1981                     2,071               1,864          373               44                     722                    158                       564
1982                     2,122               1,910          382               53                     869                    191                       678
1983                     2,176               1,958          392               63                   1,033                    227                       806
1984                     2,230               2,007          401               72                  1,181                     259                       922
1985                     2,286               2,057          411               82                   1,345                    295                     1,050
1986                     2,343               2,109          422               93                   1,525                    335                     1,190
1987                     2,402               2,162          432              103                   1,689                    371                     1,318
1988                     2,462               2,216          443              114                   1,870                    410                     1,460
1989 - 2004              2,523               2,271          454              125                   2,050                    450                     1,600
1/  At five persons average population per served household.
2/  At half liter per household per day average consumption for household
lighting and US$150.70 per ton export price of kerosene,
31 At 15 kWh per household per month average use of electricity for lighting
and 20 milliemes per kWh sold.



APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Resource Cost Savings, Household Lighting. Rural Zones
1/                            2/                        3/       Net Resource
-------- Population, '000------       Served Households  , '000         Kerosene Saved         Electricity Used          Cost Savings
with access             with                          new                                          Price
Year               to electricity          service        Total        Connections             LE '000                 LE '000                  LE '000
1978                       950                665          108               2                      33                     7                        26
1979                       974                682          111               5                      82                    18                        64
1980                       998                699          117              11                     180                    40                       140
1981                     1,023                716          119              13                     213                    47                       166
1982                     1,049                734          122              16                     262                    58                       204
1983                     1,075                752          125              19                     312                    68                       244
1984                     1,102                771          128              22                     361                    79                       282
1985                     1,129                790          132              26                     426                    94                       332
1986                     1,157                810          135              29                     476                    104                      372
1987                     1,186                830          138              32                     525                    115                      410
1988                     1,216                851          142              36                     590                    130                      460
1989 to 2004             1,246                872          145              39                     640                    140                      500
1/ At six persons average population per served household.
At half liter per household per day average consumption for household
lighting and ITSSl5O.70 Per ton exnort nrice cf lVerosene.
3/ At 15 kWh per household per month average use of electricity for lighting
and 20 milliemes per kWh sold.
rt



APPRAISAL OF A REG01NAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Interugl Economic Rare of Recorn Cos-t sd ReBefit SCrea
Total Pro beet
Increo,eotal
-Prolect Load                                                                                                            --Project Cast,--                     --         lect 8eteLl
motel loves bent             -          5398110o.-ti.  Co.. ----                                                     t B."ft - ------
LE 000                                 Ld 000 " -  000                                            -----  LES000
Solos        Peolk EmenDd    I,ccrooe,ctal                    Iobcroosossloo                 3/      Gsoer-tion 4/      3/                     6/    Total           Sales 7/  R.so-rce Cost SRvings           Total              Net
Year            MOilion kWh6     b7           Sy/sIm  MW      Trosnaassloo     & 01st. Sobs. 2/    3eoorstioo      Toss. O 4 M    FPel         Ceettal   0 & d    Cost RE WS        Reveoue      looseH..d Lightits 8/ V     eB.efLts  BE o     enefits LWE
1978                 15             3               3                                  177                                  10          68        5,215        30       5,500             300               90                     390            -  1,110
1979                 61            14              11                                  266                                  44         276        8,69b       122       9,b05            1,220             268                   1,488            -  7,915
1980                160            37              13                                  266                                 116         729        3,478       320       4,909           3,200              588                   3,768            -  1,121
1981                225            51              14             1,930              2,571                                 163       1,027                    450       6,161           4,500              730                   5,230            -    931
1982                295            66              15             1,950              2,571               7,245             213       1,341        7,466       590      21,576           5,900              882                   6,782            - 14,594
1983                374            82              16               946              1,418              18,124             270       1,701                    748      23,207            7,480           1,050                   8,530            - 14,6T7
1984                460           100              18             1,064              1,596              10,874             333       2,098                    920      i6,985            9,200           1,204                   10,404            -  6,481
1985                555           119              19             1,123              1,684               6,897             401       2,524                  1,110      13,729           11,100           1,382                   12,482            -  1,247
1986                659           140              21              1,241             1,862               7,612             477       3,001        7,467     1,316      22,970           13,180           1,562                   14,742            - ,236
1987                774           163              22              1,359             2,039               8,278             560       3,527                  1,548       17,311          15,480           1,728                   17,208            -    103
1988                900           187              24              1,418             2,128               8,700             651       4,101                   1,800      18,798          18,000           1,920                   19,920               1,122
1989              1,039           214              27              1,596             2,794               9,787             751       4,732                  2,078      21,778           20,780           2,100                   22,880               1,542
1990-2004         1,039           214                                                                                      751       4,732                  2,078        7,561          20,780           2,100                   22,880              11,319
INTMRNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN: 10.150 0/- 0.0596
1/ At LE 60/WM
2/ At LE 90/1W.
3/ At E 368/kW inclvding peok boAd loss (102) end re-rrve-rargin (151).
4/ Genoertilo  at 0.4 millieen/lWdh end t-ol.-issLon at 0.2  illino/kWh.
7/ FoeS at economic coat of associated Caoetrl gas at present being flared
at the  nlI,haad, US$20.00/To.
6/ At 2 rilliere/kWh intludio  billing, collmcclat9nd ed dtstrrben
7/ At 20 rillieme- averegn rr-ene per kWh sold.
o   S.. Attonly ntn 3 ehd 4c
*   I1clde. ..ly ni.. Cr4.n  -et-r  .d fftrt... rtral  -one  oigina11Y id..tLfi.d.



APPRAISAL OF A REGIORkL ELECI7FICATION FPDRJCT
EGYPT
Inter -al lEcopo=i Rate of Return. Nie 1rbs Centee. Cost ad Deol-it Stre
--Project12S  Load----                        ------ e----        noa- l          -------------        eAttu  Coa                 -ott --C-sts-------- itot RennEt-----
LE'O00                                LE8000                       LEO0E LE 000
Sale.i      uPek De-sd        etr-useCtai                  1/  Iubtroneo7oaion                  3/   Cesertioo 4/           sJ                    61      ToteS           So3n 7/   Rr-P- Cost 500R55                TOtS1                 Met
Peer            MlOlteTOe   Ish     N            Syste M         Tsmtstien         & DiSt. Subs. 2/    OeesrRtieR      nTe.-   0 &M         url     tapil   0& 5M        Cost LE'000      Rev9Rn         H-oesltd Liehtit o /    Baesoftts SCOOO    senefEse 1E0eO
1978                 4D7                              1                                                                      0              53      2,015         24        2,900             240                64                       304         -  2,596
1979                 445             9              B                                                                        36             227      4,692        100        5,055           1,000               204                     1,204         -  3,851
1980                 525            29             20                                                                        94             593      1,876        260        2,823           2,600               448                     3,048               225
1981                 578            40             11               1,537              2,305                                132             834                   366        5,174           3,660               564                     4,224         -    950
19B2                 635            52              12              1,537              2,305               5,727            173           1,092      3,194        400       14,508           4,800                678                    5,478         -  9,030
1983                 699            65              13                763              1,152              14.318            220           1,383                   608       18,449           6,080                806                    6,886         - li,563
1984                 769            79             04                 827              1,241               8,591            271           1,705                   748       13,383           7,480                922                    8,402          -  4,981
1965                 846            94              15                886              1,330               5,437            326           2,052                   902        10,933           9,020             1,050                   10,070          -    863
19S6                 931           110              16                946              1,418               5,80D            388           2,442       3,194     1,072       25,260           10,720             1,190                   11,910          -  3.350
1987               1,024           128              18              1,064              1,596               6,525            455           2,865                 1,258        13,763          12,528             1,318                   13,846          -     83
1988               1,126           147              19              1,123              1,684                6,887           529           3,330                 1,462        15,015          14,620             1,460                   16.080             1,065
1989               1,239           168              21              1,241               1,662              7,612            610           3,844                 1,688        16,857          16,880             1,600                   10,480             1,623
1990-2004          1,239           168                                                                                      610           3,844                 1,688         6,142          16,880             1,600                   18,490            123,33
INTE3AL RECOIERTC  0M OF 87TU       12.650 a- 0 0502
I' *'t 'a =d/
2(  AtS6OW
;/ At S  368/kt id cl.diRgap   lead leos (102) asd reerve agis (155).
41  G Ati_  t 0.4  lli1./ag  seA trasssil *t D.2  illies/kWh.
5/ 1 s at  -a      . eeet of saLatd atureS gee st present beiog fl4rd
at th  17sbd, USB2f.Oo/fs.
~)AR 2 elllis/Mm   LnIssASa  tEIl.s, tell1ttlsg sad  d86lsltetlota.
71  At 20 itli_e arae  re            P.. ge r . aId.
rS  Att-c_t 3.
'U



Al 27
A0tnt      t 7
810 '                  '      '       g       1     '
'A    0' 4 '                         0   0      4' 
e    A '             A 0' '           C A'
V    A       -         'A  'A g   gA 'A e X e 
H         w 8              ; 4           4 ei'.
01-
e            Cob                'A  'A ts      C   C   C aC  > 
V SI             'A @ Xo -          oA   A '   '   '
C ~ ~     ~    ~     '   'A   C   -* '    A   A
C1  'A  'A   _   C   'A '              A '          
'A '                                                             'A 
0               C'C   C             'A   0   0 X       0   C   C   > U
40            00         otAC'A '
01 ~  ~           ~          ~           ~          r 1  'A  'A -   '    01'   C 'A  44 ot
vXSIS 
S      ~                                                                           
04 C'A 'oAoCCC _c
8.0                                       X         ZN            moeo           
1             CX                                                1   t < w                 .          
A| 'A                  'A   0                                                                                    B a
o  ~ ~       gAC        'A  .4  O    0   'A  o0'A'A'A'A'A'Dl_At                                                        *
'A  -A  'A  'A   0   0                     0   'A                             'A    C    A       
'A'A   'A 'A  'A   A   'A   '   'AN    S'A 0
1~~~~~~~~a g     !V   
| g0   > O   _   N      e   e   a   b   40  .O                           15
SI -            -        -        -       -        -        -             -         1---l-l



ANNEX 27
Attachment $
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EGYPT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity Analysis
Total Project
Urban Centers and            Urban Centers          Rural Zones
Rural Zones Together              Only                  Only
Base Case                               10.2                       12.6                   4.2
20% Tariff Increase                     14.2                       17.8                   6.8
Kerosene
a.  10% higher                        10.4                       13.0                   4.4
b.  10% lower                          9.8                       12.4                   4.0
Capital Costs
a.  10% higher                         8.6                       11.0                   3.2
b.  10% lower                         12.0                       14.8                   5.6
Sales
a.  10% higher                        11.4                       14.4                   5.2
b.  10% lower                          8.8                       11.0                   3.2
Fuel Costs
a.  10% higher                          9.6                      12.0                   3.8
b.  10% lower                         10.6                        13.2                  4.6
May 1977



A                                                                 -
W E ST  E R N
_ @~~ E    P   RT                                                       E A  ST E ORN <5e, 
DESERT~~~~~~~~   SER
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
UNIFIED POWER SYSTEM
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
a 4' V,   Prjet Areos A   Appri x
500kV Tr.-issio  Li,e, Eix-t,g                                                                                  2ei
-   220 kiV Tronnisio,, Lire, Exit,ing
220 kV T-ossi   tin, Poned or U,der Co-s tio
(Not Pnt of IBRD Pitojecl
T hE,nl Plats, Pland on Un,der Constnuctio
Not Pont of IRD Ptorec)-
A ThErml Plots, FToistig
H Ilyane Plants, Existing
M-~ ~      ~ R.. d                                                                               \
--- -App-texnt  Ga--rorot  B-odonies:
W.-t-' B5E ...~'"a dcii
Xf  \5ig>     '~~~>'  1   '\-'':-A
Intrcotiano  Roondols                                  -Y T
1              0 flor
rs ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     cn nnrLsL   \    I                             0
c  cc  so  xc                                    onscyra   j ~~~~~ 0T
0~~~~~~~AA REUEI  FEGP
REGIONAL~ ~~~~~~c~A ELCRFCTO  PROEC                                           '--Ncr



