Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2034a-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECDTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 27, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                  US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                            LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                  US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                            LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                  US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                            LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                  US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                            LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                  US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                            LE 0.70
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GODE   - Gulf Organization for Development of Egypt
M & LT - Medium and Long Term
EEA    - Egyptian Electricity Authority
MEE    - Ministry of Electricity and Energy
REA    - Rural Electrification Authority
km     - 1 kilometer of 1,000 meters
kW     - 1 kilowatt or 1,000 watts
MW     - 1 megawatt or 1,000 kw
kWh    - 1 kilowatt hour or 1,000 watt hours
GWh    - 1 gigawatt hour or 1,000,000 kWh
kVA    - 1 kilovolt ampere or 1,000 volt amperes
MVA    - 1 megavolt ampere or 1,000 kVA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA)
Guarantor:       Arab Republic of Egypt
Executing        Rural Electrification Authority (REA)
Agency:
Amount:          US$48 million equivalent
Terms:            20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, at 8.2 percent
interest.
Project          The project is to (i) improve and expand, as part of REA's
Description:    ongoing program, electric power distribution systems in and
around the cities of El-Mansoura, El-Fayum, Assyout, Sohag,
Fuwa, Damietta, El-Mahalla, Tanta, El-Minya, Aswan, Kafr
El-Sheikh, Ras El-Bar, and Kafr El-Dawar and in 19 rural
zones; and (ii) assist in building up the institutions of
the power sector through technical assistance to EEA and REA
and improvement of EEA's training facilities. In detail,
the project would consist of:
(a) about 100 km of 66-kV and 33-kV sub-transmission
lines; 230 MVA of sub-station and distribution
transformer capacity, and 3400 km of 11-kV and
380/220 V distribution lines;
(b) an economic review of REA's program, improvement of
its planning and evaluation procedures and detailed
engineering and construction supervision of project
facilities requiring about 264 man-months of consult-
ing services;
(c) improvements of EEA's financial administration and
accounting systems, a review of its safety and inspec-
tion practices, and a review of electricity tariffs
requiring about 132 man-months of consulting services;
and
(d) dormitory-type accommodations and audio visual and
other didactic material for EEA's Institute of Engineers
south of Cairo and its Training Center for Mechanical/
Electrical Skilled Workers and Technicians north of
Cairo; 18 man-months of overseas training for teachers
of these institutions; a training advisor to EEA, a
specialist instructor trainer and a specialist for
training in commercial and financial subjects, each
for about 3 years.
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost: 1/
Local    Foreign     Total
…---   (US$ Million------
1. Sub-station equipment and distribution
transformers (installed)                     3.4       9.3        12.7
2. Transmission and distribution lines
(installed)                                  8.7      23.5       32.2
3.  Consulting Services for REA                  0.9       2.2         3.1
4.  Consulting Services for EEA                  0.6       1.1         1.7
5.  Training                                     0.6       1.1         1.7
Project Cost excluding contingencies        14.2      37.2        51.4
6.  Contingencies (physical and price)           6.4      12.8        19.2
Total Project Cost                         20.6      50.0        70.6
1/   Based on parallel market exchange rate in November 1976 of about
$1.50 = LE 1.
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                          -       48.0      48.0
Government                        19.0      2.0       21.0
EEA                                1.6       -         1.6
Total                             20.6     50.0       70.6
Procurement      All contracts for equipment and materials and for building
Arrangements:   works at the training centers would be awarded in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines for procurement on the basis
of international competitive bidding. For the purpose of
comparing foreign and local bids, Egyptian manufacturers who
participate would be allowed a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing
imports or 15 percent of CIF price whichever is lower.
Audio-visual and other didactic materials (about $50,000) for
the training component, because of their specialized nature,
and meters, relays, and other electrical equipment not
susceptible to international competitive bidding may be
purchased on the basis of quotations from 3 suppliers pro-
vided that the total value of those contracts does not
exceed $1.0 million equivalent. Contracts for installa-
tion and erection works will be Government financed and
would be awarded under local bidding procedures.



- iii -
Disbursement     Disbursement would be made on the basis of (i) 100 percent of
Arrangement:    the foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials,
and 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
items; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for expatriate
consultants, advisors and overseas training and 70 percent of
the cost of local experts; and (iii) 40 percent of the cost of
dormitory type facilities including equipment. Retroactive
financing would be provided for the consulting services to REA
in an amount not exceeding $150,000 for expenditures incurred
after May 1, 1977.
Estimated Disbursements
of Bank Loan:
Fiscal             1978     1979     1980    1981
Year              ---------(US$ Million)--------
Annual              8.0     24.0     14.0     2.0
Cumulative          8.0     32.0     46.0    48.0
Consulting       A total of 504 man-months of consulting and advisory services
Services:       would be provided by suitably qualified firms and individuals
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The foreign
costs of these services are estimated to average about $7,800
per man-month. REA has already selected a firm for its con-
sulting services under the Project.
Estimated Com-
pletion Date:   December 31, 1980.
Economic Rate    At least 10 percent
of Return:
Appraisal        Appraisal of a Regional Electrification Project, Egypt
Report:          (No. 1517a-EGT of May 18, 1977).






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AMID DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$48 million to the Egyptian Electricity Authority
with the guarantee of the Arab Republic of Egypt to help finance the foreign
exchange costs of a regional electrification project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 4 1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2
percent per annum.
PART I - TIHE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A
basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/June 1976 and its report is under
preparation. Updating missions visited Egypt in October 1976 and January
1977; the findings of these missions are incorporated in this report. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities. Real
GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort
to accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisaged (i) decentralization of decision-making in
1/ All currency conversions are at the official rate of $2.56 = LE 1.



- 2 -
state-owned enterprises, (ii) liberalization of the private sector, (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment, and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
which are expected to lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. In
particular, steps have been taken to remove some of the restrictions on private
business activities, to decentralize public enterprise management, to encourage
foreign private investment, to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate, and to loosen many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are also linked to the
major immediate weaknesses of the economy: the large deficit in the balance
of payments, the low level of government savings, and low efficiency in public
sector enterprises.
6.        The present government was formed in November 1976 following elec-
tions to the People's Assembly, which were the first in which a choice of
candidates representing diverse political views was offered to the voters.
The Cabinet was strengthened on the economic side, and a Deputy Prime Minister
for Financial and Economic Affairs was appointed to coordinate economic
policy-making, while President Sadat directed that economic questions should
be in the forefront of the new Cabinet's tasks.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.   Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from less than 3 percent in 1973 to about 3.2 percent in 1974 and an
estimated 9.8 percent in 1975 1/; the rise is attributed largely to recovery
of industrial activity through the provision of greater aid-financed inputs,
increased construction (particularly in the Canal Zone) and growth of trade
and services. The high rate of growth for 1975 was in part due to the recovery
of the Sinai oil fields (November 1975) and the reopening of the Suez Canal
(June 1975). If their effect on growth of the gross domestic product is ex-
cluded, the overall growth rate is estimated (by the Ministry of Planning) at
8.0 percent. Preliminary production data for 1976 indicate that the economy
continued to expand. The estimated rate of growth of 6.1 percent, however,
reflects increasing capacity constraints in some sectors.
8.        Investment.   Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance
from Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973
to $2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable
replenishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973
period. During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign
resources, investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).
1/   Ministry of Planning.



- 3 -
9.        Public Finance.   Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation.
In 1975 tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Public enterprises (although
hampered by Government-imposed pricing policies) and social insurance and
pension funds contributed an additional 8 percent and 5 percent of GNP, re-
spectively. Total public revenues reached 38 percent of GNP, a major effort
for a country of Egypt's low per capita income.
10.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,830 1/ million (about
15 percent of GNP) in 1975, as the Government endeavored to protect domestic
consumers from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other
essential commodities. While exact data on defense spending are not available
(since a large portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign
financed--the Emergency Fund) it appears that the defense burden on the budget
eased over this period. Although it increased in absolute terms--from $1,100
million in 1973 to $1,485 million in 1976--defense spending, as a proportion
of total current expenditures, declined from about 39 percent to about 28 per-
cent in this period. Expenditures on economic and social services provided by
the Government (education, health, etc.) and other general expenditures have
risen at approximately the same rate as GNP.
11.       With increased current spending, public savings declined from 4 per-
cent to less than 1 percent of GNP between 1973 and 1975. However, preliminary
data for 1976 show an increase in public sector savings. As of May 1, 1976,
a number of subsidies were abolished, saving $140 million. A decline in inter-
national prices also helped cut the actual subsidy bill for 1976 to $1,600
million.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 16 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 42 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 25 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
index in 1975 at 10 percent, but the real rate was probably much higher. The
index for 1976 is not available, but indications are that the rate of infla-
tion was comparable to that in 1975.
13.       Balance of Payments.   Despite an increase in the value of com-
modity exports by 56 percent between 1973 and 1975 (largely as a result of
improved international prices) export earnings fell well short of imports.
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.



- 4 -
Indeed, the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due to in-
creases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. Egypt's
export receipts were influenced by declines in the physical production of
certain field crops (particularly cotton) due to a shift towards more profit-
able cash crops (fruits, vegetables, clover) and increased domestic demand for
exportable products. As a result, there was a decline in both the value and
quantity of some important exports.
14.       The imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by
fast-growing earnings from services and from workers' remittances. Never-
theless, the overall deficit on the trade and services account reached record
levels, increasing from $654 million in 1973 to $2,480 million in 1975.
15.       In 1976 the deficit was reduced significantly, although at $1,390
million it was still high. Preliminary estimates show export earnings in-
creased by about 16 percent, due mainly to increased receipts from the Suez
Canal and to oil exports. Imports of goods and services fell by about 13
percent, in large part due to a decision to abandon the second tranche of the
1976 investment program and to restrict imports of intermediate and capital
goods. While there were some reductions in imports of consumer goods as well,
the smaller deficit must have been partly purchased at the cost of Egypt's
future growth.
16.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1974-1976
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1974 the deficit could be fully met
only by a substantial increase in short-term borrowing, including the use of
banking facilities. Higher levels of concessional assistance enabled a re-
duction in the use of these facilities in 1975, but lower aid flows in the
following year led Egypt to increase the use of this type of credit by over
$200 million to a total of $1.45 billion.
Development Problems and Prospects
17.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities of the projects into which
they are channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the
growth of consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate
infrastructure (particulary ports, power, transport, and telecommunications);
(iii) greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on com-
pleting ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of
prices (including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative
scarcities; (vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move
towards increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented
and employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial
capacity more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and



- 5 -
encouraging small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb
the growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan the framework of which has been completed. The plan is presently
under preparation.
18.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.    The
reasons for this are in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to continue to
rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in about 1980--
there is then likely to be a substantial increase in revenues; (iii) Egypt's
improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by the oil companies) at
one million barrels a day by 1980-82, substantially exceed domestic require-
ments; (iv) considerably increased earnings from tourism--these reached an
estimated $383 million in 1976; (v) the possibility of using agricultural
land more intensely with greater emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an
increasing flow of remittances ($445 million in 1976) from Egyptians working
abroad. 1/
19.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take 5-10 years to achieve a
significant restructuring of the economy.
20.       Recent Policy Actions.   Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing excess
consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the parallel ex-
change market has been successively widened (the last widening took place in
March 1977), to comprise all exports except raw cotton, rice and petroleum and
all imports except basic mass consumption commodities and also excluding Suez
Canal revenues; (ii) the parallel market rate itself was further depreciated
to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii) the attractiveness of the
parallel market was increased by establishing a list of items which may be
imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv) parallel market imports
were valued for customs duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure
equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable
imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed and interest rates in-
creased; and (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised rigid control
over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "higher
1/   Additional substantial remittances came in the form of "own-exchange"
imports.



- 6 -
councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises.
The Government submitted a letter of intent to the IMF on March 4, proposing
to undertake further economic reform. On April 20, 1977, the Fund approved a
standby arrangement for the Government authorizing provision up to the equiv-
alent of SDR 125 million (approximately $145 million) over the next 12 months.
Drawings under the standby arrangement will be closely monitored and depend on
Egypt remaining within a series of quarterly credit ceilings designed to limit
the increase in the net domestic assets of the banking system to $1,536 million
in 1977.
External Assistance
21.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
22.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Western medium- and long-term (M&LT) capital
assistance began to grow after October 1973. However, because of the slow
disbursements inherent in the aid process, and the heavy repayments due on
past loans, net M&LT transfers from OECD countries to Egypt were initially
small. Commitments from the OECD countries have, however, led to a strong
aid pipeline, and it is estimated that there were substantial inflows in 1976
which should continue in 1977.
23.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$210 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
24.       It is estimated that in 1977 Egypt needs to import goods, including
capital goods in the order of $5.0 billion, in part to compensate for the
severe reductions in imports in 1976. While prospects for increases in re-
ceipts from exports are good, a current account deficit of approximately $1.86
billion is forecast; in addition, a reduction in short-term debt of at least
$700 million (including paying off $450 million in arrears as of December 31,
1976) is desirable, amortization of M&LT debt will require $840 million and
there will be a reduction in bilateral balances of about $200 million. Thus
total foreign exchange requirements will be about $3.6 billion. Taking into



- 7 -
account estimated aid disbursements of $1,470 million 1/, and estimated sup-
pliers' credits, private transfers and foreign investment of $480 million
Egypt would still have a foreign exchange financing gap for 1977 of approxi-
mately $1,650 million. A major step towards meeting this gap was accomplished
recently. In early April 1977, GODE agreed to provide additional financial
support to Egypt in the amount of $1.475 billion to be made available in 1977
as a loan to the Central Bank of Egypt in stages, while Egypt carries out its
declared policies to correct its balance of payments disequilibrium.
25.       Consultative Group.   In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group
was held in Paris on May 11 and 12. At the meeting the major aid-giving
countries and institutions discussed in detail the most important problems
confronting the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and
its needs for external assistance. Delegates, while appreciating the magni-
tude of the task with which the Egyptian Government was confronted recognized
that the structural changes undertaken by the Government would take a number
of years to complete. They felt that the Government was taking energetic
steps towards accelerating growth and expressed their support of the Govern-
ment's statement on its development strategy and of its efforts to direct
future development within the framework of an integrated plan to be completed
this year. Delegates accepted the World Bank's estimate that Egypt will re-
quire disbursements of $3.6 billion in 1977, of which about $1.65 billion will
have to come from new commitments. As the result of the commitment by GODE
and an increase in the commodity aid portion of US assistance, it is likely
that the bulk of the foreign exchange gap in 1977 will be covered. However,
current projections of foreign exchange earnings and requirements indicate
that in the period 1978-80, Egypt will require external assistance of about
$2.8 billion annually in disbursements (compared with $3.6 billion for 1977).
About $1.6 to $1.8 billion of disbursements will come from existing commitments
leaving a gap of about $1.0 to $1.2 billion to be covered by new commitments.
A large part of this aid will be required in quick-disbursing form, i.e., as
cash or commodity aid.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
26.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1975 was estimated at $5,101 million. This was almost
double the amount at end-1974 of $2,760 million. During the first nine months
of 1976 the debt rose to $5,670 million. Of this, official M&LT loans amounted
1/   This amount includes among others disbursements from (i) a $250 million
cash loan made in 1976 by the Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt
(GODE), which is a $2.0 billion fund created by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait,
UAE and Qatar to participate in financing Egypt's development program;
(ii) a Eurodollar loan of $250 million from a consortium of American
and European banks, guaranteed by the Gulf Organization; and (iii) M&LT
project aid estimated $435 million (including $185 million from bila-
teral agreement countries). It excludes the additional assistance to be
provided by the Gulf Organization mentioned at the end of paragraph 24.



- 8 -
to $3,043 million (of which $731 million was in clearing currencies). Another
$1,942 million was in convertible currency deposits and $685 million in sup-
pliers credits. Major creditors were Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, USSR, USA, Abu
Dhabi and Iran. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 2.7 percent of the total. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $680 million
in 1975, giving a debt service ratio of 26 percent. No reliable estimates of
military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain resched-
uling of service payments on such debt.
27.       While the bulk of external assistance to Egypt was obtained on con-
cessional terms, the continued high level of short-term indebtedness continued
to be a cause of serious concern. Commercial bankers' credit facilities out-
standing (including undisbursed) amounted to $2,297 million at the end of
December 1976 of which $1,447 million were disbursed. The liquidity require-
ments of this type of indebtedness created severe problems for Egypt in 1976
when arrears in repayments were reported.
28.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph 20
above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's economic
situation and international environment. The situation however requires con-
tinuing review and further action. At the Government's request, the Bank has
arranged to review developments in the economy by economic missions three or
four times a year.
29.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, Egypt's foreign capital inflow requirements are estimated at about
$2.8 billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, includ-
ing a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing M&LT debt as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated at 25 percent in
1976 and is expected to decline to 19 percent in 1980. In these circumstances
Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in
addition to the IDA assistance which Eygpt merits on the ground of its poverty
and difficult balance of payments position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
30.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's twenty-eighth lending
operation in Egypt 1/ and the first in the power sector. It would bring Bank
and IDA commitments made since 1970 to $794.5 million. Annex II contains
a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of April 30, 1977, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   Assuming the loan for this project will be considered by the Executive
Directors after the credit of $27 million and loans of $27 million and
$12 million for the Second Nile Delta Drainage Project.



- 9 -
31.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt
is to provide foreign exchange in support of its development program and
through this lending increase utilization of available productive capacity.
This included (i) those projects which would lead to increased production and
foreign exchange earnings, (ii) those aimed at rehabilitating and expanding
infrastructure necessary to facilitate development, and (iii) selected social
sectors, namely population and education. The impact of Bank/IDA participation
in projects has been widened by attracting additional foreign exchange from
other donors for many of these projects and by important institution building.
Besides the technical assistance included under Bank/IDA projects, the Bank is
Executing Agent for the national Power Sector Survey (para. 36) and the Master
Plan for Water Resource Development and Use (para. 37), both partly financed
by UNDP.
32.       The projects financed in recent years have been in support of the
strategy outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for
future lending follows the same line. A Second Industrial Imports Project,
an Iron Ore Engineering Project, and a project for the expansion of the Suez
Canal have been appraised and will be presented to the Executive Directors
shortly. A pipeline of projects for possible future lending is being developed,
comprising additional projects in the water supply and sewerage, education and
power sectors, in agriculture including drainage, and industry. Projects under
study in new fields include urban and rural development and the tourism sector.
33.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1976 to represent about 5
percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow. The Bank/IDA share of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed was about 3 percent at the end of
1976. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt outstanding
and disbursed (excluding military debts) is estimated to reach about 7 percent
in 1980, of which the Bank share would be about 4 percent. It is estimated
that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA will represent
about 3 percent of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
34.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976. IFC is also discuss-
ing several other private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR 1/
General
35.       The Minister of Electricity and Energy determines policies in the
power sector. The Higher Council for the Electricity Sector, which in addi-
tion to the Minister of Electricity includes the Ministers of Agriculture,
Irrigation, Industry and Petroleum, coordinates power development with other
1/   All currency conversions are at parallel market exchange rate of
November 1976 of about $1.50 = LE 1.



- 10 -
sectors. The dominant agency in the sector is the Egyptian Electricity
Authority (EEA) which is responsible for implementation, management, opera-
tion and maintenance of power facilities throughout Egypt. The Rural Elec-
trification Authority (REA) is a special implementation agency responsible
for planning and constructing the facilities of the Government's National
Rural Electrification Plan and for upgrading existing distribution systems
(66-KV and below) outside Cairo, Alexandria and the Suez Canal Zone. Upon
completion, REA transfers its works to EEA for operation.
36.       The Bank's association with the energy sector in Egypt began with a
sector review mission in December 1974. Since then, the Bank has assumed a
coordinating role in the Government's various efforts to improve operational
policies and build-up the institutions in the sector. The sector review led
to a Power Sector Survey, which is being carried out by the consulting firm
Sanderson and Porter, Inc./US under UNDP-financing with the Bank acting as
executing agency. Its objective was to integrate planning in the power sector
with overall economic planning and to identify changes that might be required
in EEA's institutional and organizational structure, its operations and devel-
opment program. Phase I of the Survey which was completed in November 1976,
recommended changes in energy policy, organization and management, accounting
and finance and system operation. Under Phase II, the consultants are now
assisting EEA in implementing the key recommendations. However, recent
constraints on UNDP funds have made limitations of the scope of the Survey
necessary. To allow the survey to be completed, further assistance would be
provided under this project. This would include: (i) financial consultants
to help EEA resolve the problems in its accounting and finance systems (para.
45) as identified by the Survey and (ii) a training component would help in
manpower planning and in the rehabilitation of EEA's training centers (paras.
43 and 55). In line with recommendations of the Survey and of Bank staff,
EEA has also requested that a study on electricity tariffs (para. 44) and a
review of EEA's safety and inspection practices (para. 47) be included under
the project. Finally, REA proposed and the Bank agreed that Harza Engineering
Co. (US) who are carrying out a USAID financed feasibility study for EEA for
a program to rehabilitate and expand power distribution systems in Cairo,
Alexandria and other cities (para. 40), be asked to do the engineering and
other related studies of the distribution systems under this project.
Energy Resources
37.       Egypt is relatively well endowed with energy resources.   They consist
of hydropower from the Nile, natural gas deposits along the Mediterranean coast,
and natural gas and petroleum deposits on the Red Sea. Through the Aswan Dam
and the Aswan High Dam, about two thirds of the Nile's hydro-energy potential
has been harnessed, providing about 55 percent of available electricity genera-
tion. To establish a rational basis for the use of water resources for elec-
tricity generation, and other purposes, the Government has recently initiated
a water master plan study to be carried out under Bank supervision with the
support of foreign experts and with financial assistance from the UNDP and
IDA under the proposed Second Nile Delta Drainage Project. As a possible
alternative source for hydropower for the future, the Government is studying



- 11 -
with the assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany, the viability of
diverting Mediterranean sea water into the Qattara depression in the Western
desert. Natural gas reserves of some 71.3 billion m3 are presently being
developed for use by new petrochemical and heavy industries. However, because
of delays in establishing these industries, the related underutilization of
the new gas pipeline systems and the prospects for a tripling of reserves by
1980, gas is becoming available as a fuel for thermal generating plants to
substitute economically for oil which is being exported. Gas found in asso-
ciation with oil in the Gulf of Suez is still being flared and could be
utilized for industry and power generation in the future. Consequently,
EEA has started converting its thermal plants from oil to gas.
Unified Power System
38.       Since 1970, all major hydro and thermal generating stations in
Egypt have been interconnected through EEA's unified power system--see IBRD
Map 12674. The system has a total installed generating capacity of 2,445 MW
of hydro in the South--345 MW at the Aswan Dam station, and 2,100 MW at the
High Dam station--and 1,370 MW of steam and gas-turbine units, mostly in the
Delta. A 500-kV, double-circuit transmission line, 838-km long, connects the
Aswan stations to the Delta Region and is the backbone of the interconnected
system. Further interconnection is accomplished through 2,400 km of 220-kV
and 3,550 km of 132-kV transmission. Subtransmission at 66-kV (2,600 km) and
33-kV (1,600 km) supplies 11-kV, 6.6-kV, and 3-kV distribution in the entire
service area. Present system configuration and voltage ratings are adequate
to meet short-term needs, compatible with long-range system development.
Because of excessive outages during the early operation, the maximum load
assigned to the 500-kV system was restricted and full utilization of avail-
able High Dam generation delayed. However, EEA is taking steps to reduce
the causes for the outages and to gradually increase the load on the 500-kV
system. Although load growth averaged 17 percent p.a. during 1974-1976, and
is estimated at 13 percent p.a. average for 1976-1980, existing generation
and transmission capacity and committed construction are ample to serve these
needs if expected improvements in system operation are realized.
Distribution System
39.       Distribution facilities in most of Egypt are run-down and over-
loaded. 40 percent of the population have access to electricity, but in the
rural areas the figure is only 20 percent. Two major efforts are in progress
to correct deficiencies and provide adequate service: one, under EEA, covers
Cairo and Alexandria and the Canal Zone; the other, under REA, covers about
120 urban centers, 4,000 villages and 25,000 hamlets in the 80 zones of
National Rural Electrification Plan. The REA construction program started in
1971. To date, REA has electrified some 2,000 villages, and reinforced and
expanded the systems of 84 urban centers, covering in all 28 zones. The
remaining 52 zones are scheduled for completion during 1976-80.
40.       Some preliminary engineering was completed by REA with the help of
Soviet consultants in 1971-73 at the start of the National Rural Electrifica-
tion Plan. A great deal of the information then developed needs to be updated



- 12 -
and upgraded. Under a first phase of their feasibility study for EEA, Harza
is to review current Egyptian distribution practices and recommend suitable
planning, design and construction standards. Harza's contract originally was
confined to Cairo, Alexandria and two provincial cities. Upon the Bank's re-
quest and in order to adopt uniform standards country-wide, the Study was ex-
tended later to cover the urban centers which are included in this project.
This Study will provide the basis for the design of the project facilities.
41.       The present decentralized distribution of power through municipali-
ties who buy power in bulk from EEA and sell it to low voltage consumers has
hindered collection of comprehensive statistical data on load patterns, total
investment costs and operating expenses for the areas already electrified.
Data of this kind are indispensable for planning future rural distribution
systems and the overall development of electricity supply in Egypt. EEA under-
took to adopt an agreed system of key indicators to monitor its technical and
financial performance and to submit these data to the Bank every year, start-
ing March 31, 1978 (Section 3.05 of draft Loan Agreement), and REA to develop
by September 30, 1978 a system to monitor the National Rural Electrification
Plan (Section 2.08 of draft Project Agreement).
Egyptian Electricity Authority
42.       EEA was established as a Government-owned authority in early 1976,
replacing the Government's General Egyptian Electricity Corporation. Al-
though a main objective of the reorganization was to give EEA more autonomy
for developing its own manpower and budgetary policies and financial and
accounting practices, progress toward this objective so far has been slow.
EEA had a payroll of 43,000 employees in 1976, including some 3,000 veterans
and university graduates who were allocated to EEA by Government but could not
be fully employed in established positions. New By-Laws for EEA have been put
into effect by Government on April 26, 1977. They would, inter alia, enable
EEA to increase salaries and benefits, to provide incentives through reward
of above average performance, and to dismiss staff in accordance with its own
procedures where circumstances warrant it.
43.       Partly as a result of the Government's salary policies and the oppor-
tunities offered in neighboring Arab countries, EEA has a severe shortage of
experienced middle and top management executives. EEA is well aware of these
problems and conscious of the continued need for upgrading existing staff
through training which seems to be the only solution in the short-term. It
has two training centers: one south of Cairo for training and re-training of
engineers and the other north of Cairo for technicians and skilled workers.
However, both facilities are underutilized since they lack adequate accommoda-
tion facilities and instructors. No training for commercial and financial
staff is being provided at present. The project training component is ad-
dressed to these needs (para. 55).
44.       EEA's current tariffs do not reflect the cost of electricity supply
since they are based on outdated (pre-1973) fuel prices. Industries are
effectively subsidized by EEA through preferential rates. EEA has already



- 13 -
started to establish a fair basis for calculating the cost data on which a
tariff structure could be formulated and requested that a comprehensive tariff
study by consultants be included under the project. Taking into account EEA's
previous work and the relevant findings of the Power Sector Survey, the con-
sultants would review existing tariffs and formulate an appropriate tariff
structure and rates.
45.       Neither EEA nor its predecessor have earned a profit since 1972.
EEA's financial performance is distorted by previous years adjustments, in-
complete valuation of fixed assets and problems which were identified by the
auditors' reports and which have not been corrected. Since financial consul-
tants to help EEA overcome some of these problems could not be included under
the Power Sector Survey because of constraints on UNDP funds, they would be
provided under the project. The consultants would in particular assist EEA
to update its fixed asset records, to establish a formula for their periodic
revaluation, and to modify its accounting system (para. 63). The Government
agreed to take all steps to have the fixed assets of EEA separated from those
of REA (Section 3.02 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
46.       Unpaid electricity accounts amounted to about $76 million at the
end of 1975, representing 8 months sales of electricity; overdue accounts are
estimated at $90 million as of the end of 1976. Nearly all unpaid accounts
are owed by the public sector: municipal councils, public utilities, govern-
ment buildings and industrial companies. In some cases, failure to pay is due
to inadequate budget provision, in others it is due to refusal to accept a 20
percent tariff increase which was introduced in January 1975. EEA's future
financial performance will depend on its ability to collect overdue electricity
accounts and reduce the volume of funds tied up in working capital. Government
agreed to take all measures necessary on its part to enable EEA to reduce its
accounts receivable to not more than the equivalent of six months sales by
March 31, 1978 and to not more than the equivalent of three months sales by
December 31, 1978 (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
47.       EEA is essentially self-insured; it has only limited insurance
coverage from a Government-owned insurance corporation, e.g. for stores and
materials, goods in transit, and motor vehicles. Risks in its operations are
widespread and needed replacements and/or repairs can be and are financed from
EEA's operating revenue. In the event of possible catastrophic losses, EEA
would rely on the Government for the replacement of destroyed assets. In
order to rationalize EEA's self-insurance arrangements and to achieve possible
economies, a review by suitable experts of existing safety and inspection
practices for the operation and maintenance of power equipment and facilities
is included under the project.
48.       The Government is considering the formation of seven new distribu-
tion companies to take over all distribution assets, operate and maintain
them, and to undertake the customer billing function. The precise form of
the companies will be determined by legislation yet to be enacted, but they
are expected to be subsidiary companies of EEA. The Government undertook to
ensure in the event a decision was made to establish these companies that the



- 14 -
arrangements for the management, ownership, operation, and maintenance of the
assets financed under the proposed Bank loan, for the audit of EEA's consoli-
dated accounts, and for EEA's financial performance under the Loan Agreement
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Rural Electrification Authority
49.       REA was established in 1971 to implement the National Rural Electri-
fication Plan, and was reconstituted in 1976. It has about 5,000 permanent
staff and engages at least another 20 percent more on a temporary basis to
meet construction needs. Like EEA, REA is overstaffed but short of capable
senior and middle level staff and would benefit from the project's training
component.
50.       REA's only sources of funds to carry out its construction tasks are
budget appropriations for rural electrification, foreign loans and suppliers'
credits. It keeps records of the direct costs of its construction works to
which at year end the proportionate shares of overhead and indirect costs are
added. All its expenses, including interest on loans, are being capitalized.
So far REA has not transferred financially any completed work to EEA but was
expected to do so annually from 1976 onward. All loan and debt service obliga-
tions would be transferred to EEA together with the fixed assets (see para. 63).
51.       REA is to spend about $400 million excluding interest during con-
struction during the 1976-80 period of which about 40 percent would be in
foreign costs. Firm sources of foreign financing arranged so far will provide
only about $15 million, half of which is expected to be for equipment purchases
from USSR. REA is actively seeking other foreign funds in the form of sup-
pliers' credits and loans from bilateral sources on concessionary terms. The
Government is giving high priority to rural electrification, and all local
costs are expected to be provided for in the Government budget. However, the
availability of foreign funds will clearly determine the extent to which the
REA electrification program can be achieved.
52.       As mentioned above (para. 17), curbing of population growth and a
balanced urban rural strategy which would decentralize urban population growth
away from Cairo and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in
smaller towns and rural areas are important aspects of the medium-term plan
which the Government is preparing to deal with Egypt's development strategy.
The National Rural Electrification Plan will help to achieve these objectives
by complementing the Government's ongoing health, agricultural and educational
programs which the Bank and IDA are already assisting. The improved living
conditions electricity will create in rural areas would help to make the family
planning program more effective and is also expected to help stem the increas-
ing flow of people to the large cities.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT 1/
Project History
53.       The project was identified during a Bank mission which visited Egypt
in August 1976 and prepared by staff of the REA for appraisal in October/
November 1976. The appraisal information was supplemented by further Bank
missions in December 1976 and in February 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 25 to 29, 1977. EEA was represented by Mr. Kamal Nabih,
REA by Mr. Abdel Fattah El-Kadi and the Arab Republic of Egypt by Mr. Samir
Koraiem of the Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation. A report entitled
nAppraisal of a Regional Electrificaion Project, Egypt" (No. 1517a-EGT), dated
May 18, 1977 is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Project Description
54.       The Project which is the Bank Group's first investment in the power
sector, is to improve and expand electric power distribution systems in second-
ary urban centers and rural zones in Upper and Lower Egypt as part of the
National Rural Electrification Plan and to assist in institution building in
the power sector through technical assistance to the two main operating agen-
cies, EEA and REA, and through improvement of training facilities. The project
would provide for (i) procurement and installation of about 100 km of 66-kV
and 33-kV subtransmission lines, 230 MVA of substation and distribution trans-
former capacity, and 3,400 km of 11-kV and 380/220 V overhead and underground
distribution lines; (ii) consulting services to REA to review its program,
improve its planning and evaluation procedures, and prepare the detailed
design and supervise construction of project facilities; (iii) consulting
services to EEA to improve financial administration and accounting, to review
its safety and inspection practices, and to review electricity tariffs; and
(iv) dormitory-type accommodations, audio-visual and other didactic material,
and technical assistance for EEA's two training centers.
55.       The project would constitute about 18 percent of the investment and
cover about 60 percent of the zones planned for electrification in REA's 1976-
1980 program. The project facilities would represent the first phase of the
power system rehabilitation and expansion in each area and, in total, would
meet urgent needs for electricity of some 6 million people. They would be
located in five secondary urban centers in Upper Egypt and eight in Lower
Egypt which have already been agreed, and in addition in 19 rural zones.
Fourteen rural zones were appraised and 11 were subsequently proposed. Final
selection of the 19 to be included under the project will be made in agreement
with the Bank and in accordance with specified financial and economic criteria.
The consulting services to EEA under the project are to complement the tech-
nical assistance being financed by the UNDP under the Power Sector Survey.
1/   All currency conversions are at parallel market exchange rate of
November 1976 of about $1.50 = LE 1.



- 16 -
The project's training component would enable EEA's two training institutes
to function effectively and to contribute to the requirements for trained
manpower of EEA and REA in the future (para. 43). An adviser, two training
specialists and overseas training would be provided to assist EEA in estab-
lishing a manpower development plan and suitable recruitment and training
practices in improving the relevance of existing courses at the institutes,
in increasing the number and quality of instructors, and in introducing
courses in financial and commercial subjects.
Project Execution
56.       REA with the assistance of its engineering consultants would be
responsible for the implementation of the electrification works. To coordinate
the work of REA's different divisions concerned, a Project Unit has been set
up. The Project Manager participated in loan negotiations. Staffing, func-
tions, and responsibilities of the unit are satisfactory. To ensure quick
project implementation, Harza Engineering Company would start their work under
the project as soon as their ongoing study on general planning, design and
construction standards for electricity distribution (para. 40) permits. This
is expected in May.
57.       As part of the engineering preparation of the project works, REA's
consultants would develop construction schedules and suitable indicators to
monitor and control progress. In accordance with standard reporting require-
ments under Bank-financed projects, both EEA and REA would submit schedules
and plans for the implementation of their respective project components for
Bank review (Section 3.04(a) of draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.05(a) of
draft Project Agreement). Upon completion, REA would transfer all assets
generated by the Project to EEA (Section 3.01(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $70.6 million of which
the foreign exchange component would be $50.0 million (71 percent). The pro-
posed loan of $48 million to EEA would finance all foreign costs of the proj-
ect except for the foreign cost of about $2.0 million of installation and erec-
tion works. EEA would finance the local cost of its consultants and of the
project's training component, and the Government all other local costs and the
foreign cost of installation and erection works. The Government would also
finance $7.6 million of interest during construction on the portion of the
proposed loan for items to be carried out by REA (Section 2.02(c) of draft
Guarantee Agreement); EEA would finance the remaining interest during con-
struction of $0.4 million. EEA would make $41.4 million of the proceeds of
the loan available to REA, under a subsidiary agreement acceptable to the Bank,
for the implementation of the electrification works and related consulting
services (Section 3.01(b) of draft Loan Agreement). Execution of this sub-
sidiary agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(b)
of draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
59.       To ensure the timely allocation of local counterpart funds, the
Government agreed to establish a special fund under this project to provide
local funds for the project components to be carried out by REA (Section
2.02(b) of draft Guarantee Agreement). The Government would replenish the
special fund at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated local
expenditures during the following three month period. The establishment of
such a special fund would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
7.01(c) of draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
60.       All contracts for equipment and materials and for building works at
the training centers would be awarded in accordance with Bank Group guidelines
for procurement on the basis of international competitive bidding. For the
purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, Egyptian manufacturers who par-
ticipate would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate
of custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of CIF price
whichever is lower. However, in view of their high manufacturing costs and
large backlog of orders, successful bids are not expected from local manufac-
turers. Audio-visual and other didactic materials (about $50,000) for the
training component, because of their specialized nature, and meters, relays
and other electrical equipment not susceptible to international competitive
bidding may be purchased on the basis of quotations from 3 suppliers, provided
that the total value of those contracts does not exceed $1.0 million equivalent.
Contracts for installation and erection works will be Government financed and
would be awarded under local bidding procedures.
Disbursement
61.       Disbursement would be made on the basis of (i) 100 percent of the
foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials and 100 percent of
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items; (ii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for expatriate consultants, advisors and overseas training and
70 percent of the cost of local experts; and (iii) 40 percent of the cost of
dormitory type facilities including equipment. Retroactive financing would
be provided for the consulting services to REA in an amount not exceeding
$150,000 for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1977.
Financial Forecasts
62.       EEA's 1977-80 investment program will require about US$1.4 billion.
This is expected to be financed as follows: 26 percent from internal sources,
26 percent from contributions from Government and grants from USAID; and 48
percent from borrowing. Arrangements for foreign financing are well advanced
but the Government may find it difficult to provide its share of the total
fund requirement. However, a short-fall in the Government's contribution
to EEA would not affect the project, since it is being financed separately
through REA, nor is the project specifically dependent on timely completion
of plant in EEA's program since the incremental demand arising from it, would
be only a small fraction of the increase in demand for Egypt as a whole.



- 18 -
63.       EEA has undertaken, under a Loan Agreement with USAID 1/, to achieve
a 9 percent rate of return on average net fixed assets in service, appro-
priately valued and revalued from time to time. Whether it is possible for
EEA to meet this target in 1979 will have to be reviewed in the light of
its financial position and forecasts at the end of 1978. By then, the cost
savings from converting oil-fueled thermal plant to natural gas and from
improved usage of the plant capacity at Aswan and of the 500 kV transmission
system would be measurable. EEA agreed to submit to the Bank not later than
December 31, 1978 a plan with proposed measures, to achieve the 9 percent
return on its revalued assets in 1979 (Sections 5.04(a) and 5.05(b) of draft
Loan Agreement); thereafter, EEA would submit to the Bank each year a suitable
financial plan for meeting the rate of return in the following year (Section
5.04(b) of draft Loan Agreement). To establish an appropriate basis for
calculating these rates of return, EEA undertook (i) to value its assets after
separation from those of REA and transfer of the facilities constructed by REA
up to December 31, 1976, and to establish the value of the Aswan High Dam and
the associated 500-kV transmission system; and (ii) to agree with the Bank on
the principles for the periodic revaluation of its assets, both by June 30,
1978 (Section 5.05(a) of draft Loan Agreement).
64.       To ensure that EEA's debt to equity ratio continues to improve and
that borrowing does not exceed prudent levels, EEA would obtain the Bank's
consent to any borrowing it plans to undertake whenever its internal cash
generation is not sufficient to cover its debt service at least 1 1/2 times in
any future year. (Section 5.06 of draft Loan Agreement); EEA also agreed to
modify by December 31, 1978 its accounting system to fulfill EEA's needs as
a public utility and provide better cost control and management informaton
(Section 5.05(b) of draft Loan Agreement), to revalue its foreign debts at the
end of each year in accordance with the current rates of exchange, (Section
5.07 of draft Loan Agreement), to submit to the Bank annual financial state-
ments audited by the Central Auditing Organization or other independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year, and to take appropriate action each year with respect to the matters
identified in the auditor's reports (Section 5.02 of draft Loan Agreement).
Similarly, REA would submit audited accounts within six months of the end of
each year (Section 4.02 of draft Project Agreement).
Project Justification
65.       With the completion of the Aswan High Dam hydro-electric complex
and the associated transmission system some 6 years ago, abundant electricity
generating capacity became available. However, the existing dilapidated and
overloaded power distribution system prevented the benefits of this huge
investment from reaching much of the population. The National Rural Elec-
trification Plan is designed to rectify this situation but is making only
slow progress, largely because of inadequate financing. Meanwhile, partly
stimulated by the Government's other efforts to improve economic and living
1/   Loan Agreement of July 31, 1976 for Helwan-Talkha Gas-Turbine Project.



- 19 -
conditions in rural areas and secondary cities, a large unsatisfied demand for
electricity has developed. The project which covers about 18 percent of REA
1976-1980 work program and about 60 percent of zones that remain to be elec-
trified under the National Rural Electrification Plan would benefit some 6
million people, about a third of which would be receiving electricity for the
first time.
66.       Electricity supply from the EEA's unified power system constitutes
the least cost solution for all project zones. Economic return calculations
were made for 9 urban centers and 14 rural zones that were originally proposed
and were considered representative for all project areas. Economic benefits
that could be quantified are (i) the net incremental revenues accruing to the
municipalities and EEA and (ii) resource cost savings through substitution
of kerosene by electricity. On this basis--using the opportunity cost of fuel
and valuing unskilled labor at half of going wage rates to reflect substantial
underemployment in the project areas--the economic rate of return over a 25
year service life is estimated to be 12 percent for the electrification works
in the urban centers and 4 percent for the works in the rural zone. The
average economic rate of return on the urban and rural project components
combined, which together account for 94 percent of total project cost, is 10
percent; the aggregate rate of return excludes the technical assistance to EEA
and the training component for which no meaningful rate of return could be
estimated. Increases in electricity tariffs, if implemented, would not be
expected to significantly affect demand and would result in higher rates of
return. Therefore, and since important benefits, particularly in the rural
zones, could not be quantified, the rates of return are minimum figures.
Benefits that could not be evaluated are: (i) cost savings and increases in
productivity in existing agricultural, industrial and service activities that
will be achieved through replacing diesel-engines and bullock drives by clean
and efficient electric motors and through introducing additional power tools
and equipment; (ii) development benefits in terms of new economic activities
in small shops and industries that will be generated through the availability
of power at reasonable cost; (iii) economic and social benefits which will
result from extending the productive day of people into the cool hours of the
evening, stimulating economic, social and community activities and promoting
educational and family planning programs; and (iv) general social benefits in
terms of increased safety, security and ease of movement in the villages after
dark through street lighting.
67.       In addition to the physical improvements, the project will contri-
bute to the Government's objective of decentralizing management by building up
institutions. Complementing the assistance being provided by the UNDP under
the ongoing Power Sector Survey, the project's technical assistance component
wfll strengthen financial management of EEA and investment planning of both
EEA and REA; its training component will help meet urgent needs of both
institutions for qualified technical and financial staff.



- 20 -
Risks
68.       There are no special risks involved in the physical implementation
of this project, and because of the importance the Government attaches to
rural electrification and of REA's dependence on the project to carry out a
substantial part of its 1978-80 work program, the project investment should
have a less than average risk. The factors which are considered critical
to its proper execution have been addressed positively as follows: REA has
experience with projects of this kind and its technical and managerial capa-
bilities are being strengthened through consultants under the Project. MEE's
contracting companies 1/ and private local contractors are expected to carry
out the installation and erection works under the project. However, through
EEA's parallel program for the improving of the distribution systems of
Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal Zone, their workload is heavy. To avoid
related delays, cost increases, and other problems, EEA's consultants (para.
40) are studying how the capacity of the electrical contracting industry can
be expanded and the efficiency of works be improved through changes in design
and construction practices. The Government is aware of the magnitude of local
funds required for the project and special commitments have been obtained
to ensure that shortage of local counterpart funds will not hinder project
execution.
69.       In contrast to the good prospects for the physical part of the
project, there is a risk that achievement of the project's financial objective
for EEA may be delayed. In addition to operational management, and policy
improvements, substantial increases in electricity tariffs will be required
if EEA is to achieve the agreed 9 percent financial return. Although there
is full agreement on the importance of reaching the agreed financial targets,
Egypt's difficult circumstances make for considerable uncertainty as to the
pace at which this can be accomplished.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Egyptian Elec-
tricity Authority, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Rural
Electrification Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab
Republic of Egypt and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors, separately.
71.       Features of the draft Loan, Project, and Guarantee Agreements of
special interest are referred to in paras. 41, 42, 45, 46, 48, 57 through
59, 63 and 64 and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
1/   There are three Government-owned contracting companies which are spe-
cialized in construction of power facilities. They report to MEE.



- 21 -
72.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are the execution of a
subsidiary agreement between EEA and REA (Section 7.01(b) of draft Loan
Agreement), and the establishment of a special fund for the project by the
Government (Section 7.01(c) of draft Loan Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1977






Mt   -PM      .0 P- I      4.
pq
:3   PI                                                                                                                                                                           4.
0
P, P.                    Pttt       W: 1                                 It         It ll i                         t
m                                                                                    ftvfto                                                    Wm,
1.0
0 Pa  V
Ml                       7                                                                 W
m
Z
Is
to -j a
10                                    a ft     OPOV- I                           -y,ft                                       m ft                    al I
P,                                                                                    IV 14     Z 0                      14                 ft
40              A"  Z
0 Z
-P, oft                           IIC                                                                  Is
P.                                  :WP`                                                                                      14
Im't
Z
43                                                                                                                                                la,
Z                                            w                   PI.el       Z.                                                         M       of 0
P,          2"
P,       0 0 C3 cl             xm,     wzo
co                                                          x x x Z     10,                                                                   C, Ina I. 1. I
ZVW- PC)
7>C'     a                                                                          10           4
4L 7
tncloO                                                I.
P,     -P,                        -43  .                   C)
31w                                              7
z- =-3           ft ft                                                                                    Pt
C,                  .. Nlt
illcl-cl I.-                               00
C,                                                                   Wm-
%W.    M-a-v       0.                   , a-  7                                 9 -                       -      . L  ox                                    W a 'a
I 0 -                               ol                                                                . -   L                             Z-,- 6. i
Z r                                                                  of -                             .     W
:2zz                              zwt                        0-dr,
-   -    T-  no-WL, :PD
A
IK 0 u          a 4  Z                                                              c  a wx.
C, lt-                                                                                                      :02Z:
3 $-&a       0  V.xx        0 7                   a
Z               t).     f & -- 0 C)   a A      -mmm                                       bg-    -    o   Z a -ro--
:nn
a a                                                                 WW
_j a     Z I  0 a
q, 6  dL .                                                                                  .      N .                    W .                 . a                 0        P.



Page 2 of 4a pages
Unless othewvise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 wan 1961. for 1970 between 1968 anad 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
me SpaLin's sfuccessful diversification of its economic structure, degree of induatrialisation and development of tourieni makes It an appropriate
'-objective" country.
Ean      1960    /.   1950-55;      /b  Eluding population of ssafl agsgl.erationa in the frontier districts;                  /at  Pigstreo relate to parsons
six years and over, exoloding nasad population;           /jl  1964-65;      /a   1962;     a    Including assistant nurare     and
midwivesa;     La   1960-621     La   Urban only.
im2      /a   1966;     /b  Relates to 12-64. years of age;         /c  Registered, nat all rracticing; in the country.
MOST gROUT UTULThs          /a    as percentage of employment;        a    May 1973;      /_c  1972;     Ld   Registered, not all practicing in the
country;      /e   197;      /f   1969-71 avernge;      L    1976, porcentage of population.
PHIUPINES        1~7      A    Ais  percentage of employment;t         b  Inside.
TM=Y             1970     /a   Excludes 17 Eastern provinces;         /b  1965-67;      /c   Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to labor force 15 years
an Lvr  d   15 years and over excludes unemployed;                                      Ifeitre  ny   Disposable mncome;  La  including
asistattnt curses and midwives.;       At   1964-66;     a    Person  asin years and over who tell the census takers that they can
read and write.
SPAIN            1970      .   Eaplcyment office estimate;        /b   Registered, not all practicing In the country.
R7, April 25, 1977
DEcPmTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Le-d Area_Lthos as)                                                                            Popsiation mer .rosco Lspersoc - Fopolatiwo   dividod by ouche    of pracitiog
Total -Total suf-c area        -pri.iog tand arcs sod inland w.aters,1 o                            atssd f- a grodat       curse. --  -r-i-d" or   cetfe        ues,and
Utirt.    M..ost-renr estiate of sgric-ltsrs1 sr-      osd rtmpororily or Psros-                 auxiliary pers.oso1 with training or       ptic.
mostly fsr crops, pa-tre, saner h kitoboc gardeos or lo Its faillw.                         Pspclsriosc Par hospiro1 hod - Populatioc divided by musher of hospital beds
-viishls in public sod priv-te cgsorsI andl spsctiissd hospital acd
GNP inrst cpita (US$) - cGiP per capita -oti.tautt     -toremt osrbet pricos,                    rshbailitstoicc..mterm, ..molidos   -oring home    sod estsbihii  ..esmt  fur
ceictalted by sous o-ovrsior sthod as World fanto ktlss (1973-75 boats),. ostodisi sod pr-vstiv- oars.
1960, 1970 sod 1975 dets.                                                                   Per capita oopply of caltoiss ft of rotroms-ts) - Compsced fr-m e-egy
squtoateo   of met food supplies   -v1itbts io ...uctry par tapita per dey,
rosu1atiom sod oitistaoteimooastic                                                                   ia bi  supplims  _opriss dacositc prod-ctlo, imports less emporim. aod
toealatioo loid-vsur tiliom)       Mu of July first'   if sot  -vilble, uv-rge                   chscgms to mooc, inst supplies motlude amisil feed, semdo, q-oitimo usd
of tw   mod-ysar eslae,1'60, 1970 umd 1975 dote,                                               to food proceos iog and Imeses to dittribciwm, meqoitremts -ere osti-eted
by Ff0 base.d me physiotogicu1 used, for -ora      activiy asd health os-id-
Poculatime desitry - Per square us - iid-y-ar popoistime pot sqssre kilmter                      ering -siromoselrt op-rtl,r, body weights, age sod ems dierribhuotme           of
(100 hecturos) of total ares                                                                  popsiattoc, sod s11ioio    107 for wate or household 1s-e
Pseulstime desity -rPer square 1o of .stic       land - Copu-d as above for                    Per -,itra supoly of Protein (crcca ret day) - Proteio umetemt of Pee -opita
asiutrlland mely.                                                                       cot supply of food psr day: op     sspply of food is defioed as above. requo-
amots for all usmetries estoshithed by US06 fuEonmic RO..earch ISrties
fita scatimticst-                                                                                provide for s oniotos   silusoce of 60 grams    of octal proteio per dey, snd
Crude hirib rote pee   thosesod.   --mae - Aossu      live bitrthu per ohossood of               20 grass of aeos1 sod poIse proteio, of which 10 grso        should be sobs1
aid-pot.o..     tlo    tem-yesr stithsetit averge- sdiog im 1960 sod 1970,                     proreis, the.em stemdecdmar     lower thou those of 75 gram    of totai protist
sod fito-year      -g aesensding is 1975 far cost retest em tfost..                            and 23 sp-n   of smimal proroin us so s-rage for the world, propomed by Ff0
Crude death rate peri ....am. dsv-rsoe - fAm..I deaths per th-o...od of uid-yssr                 to the Thied World Food iSroy
p.pulatiost, rem-year ariolstftic    .. avrge  ending in 1960 sod 190 sod five-              Per t-pito erteto uiyfo          or    an sd pals     - Protetn sopply of food
year avrage eudiog in 1975 for .ost recestes.tisae-                                            derived from Iniaiais sod paloet   J Stm  r   Per day
tofonr mortality rtet 1/thou) - u.ousi deathc of iofsnts u,cdr ome year of sc                  Duth rote 1/thou) aget 1-4 - Aocual dea thu per thouo-d to age group 1-4
per tho..u.od live births..yas                                                                         to childrms is this age grasp,..sggemtmd as am iodtcator of
Life some.ttuoy em birth (yr.)      A fotage  -ubor of yoer   of life rsoatntog at                aloatritie.n
birih. usualy fiv-yea      s--rg.m endtng ic 1960. 1970 cod 1975 for develop-
tog  oanmirte.                                                                               Educatime
Giruo reProductiso ra te -     vetage -abr of Ive- daughoers a wI     s  w ill bsar            fd(sted soroi11snt rtios - plnary cuhosi - Eurolloemi of sli sges as pe-
to her noru1 rprodautio- period if ohs eopertsrn-         pr-eut age-spotific                 c-ctags of potoary mchosi-aft popolettonm; lludos child r- aged b-Il vests
fr,itlity rare,,      .. osuly fioe-yost ovregos ending it 1960, 1970 sod 1975                 hut odjoted fot differeont length     of prima.ry  do...rime; for   -etrles with
for doveopiag     -twotrts.                                                                    umiversa    d-ctiso, sooiereyso.ted 10% since som                pupils are bel1e
Poptattiom gtroth rsts (t) - total - Compouod ecnual grthst        rates of aid-year             or chw    ihe official school age.
pupuisrioc for 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                                 Adiusted ecroilant ratio - scemedury erhovi      - Computsd as shav,     -eondotv
foesItaime growth rate (.    - urbuc - compared likb groth rac       of total                    mdo...rime tequiros at lesot foot yearm of sppr-vd priasry ioaircttioo
popultaiom, difforeer deftoitioss of urbo      stoa ...  y affectt tmpaability of              provides ge..etal, vo..atioea1 or is-eb- rosimiog testrucotocs far pupils
data sasog coctties                                                                            af 12 to 17 yssrs of ago;    -crrepondeoc.   cars     are ge...rslly emuluded.
Urbam pposistion It of tate1) - Rtart    of   rban to total pepoistime ; differeot             Yeses of ohonltasa provdd(is-o            smdloll-Ttlpaso
defisitiema of urhee steps ma      fetcmeaiiyo               as50        mcre.sbeig                         nsosdr        leve,   msoteal Losotatime ay he pertistly or
eusplsetly ...clsdd.
Ags structure (prerto) - Czhtldrmo (0-14 yeara), workiog-age (15-64 years),                    omeaisonal mortlneor     tofsc     dr)-       milmea Imorci             lcclcde
and rmftr-d (65 yeare aod ove) sa pe -ceraoe         of eid-yesr populatime.                   teohmical, Isd-atrtel or sobher programs which operate todepedeotly or 5
ufe depsede-co rati      - Ractio of pepule-ime udr 05 sod 65 sod over to thoom                  dopartoustIo   f at mmdat     to-tit-itocs
of ages 11 through 6t                                                                        Adult literacy rare )y.) - Lcitmrat   odu1it    (able to red and writs) as Per-
icocmicdeeodecy ati  -Ratio of Ppuplation voder 15 a,d 65 sod -vr to                      -marage of total adult   .poplattot aged 15 yea rs sod suer.
the. labor forco ic age gtroop of 15-hi years
Foun alaoPIt-m     - accptors hcmlcv         ,,to) - C-muloi-o -ub- of u-cprors                H.. Inutg
of bt-corldevices nedor aupioeu of catiova1 fasily pioon-g prograo                           Persum pe     roo    (urbaul - Aerago cober of Percovo Pot roo      iv occpted
oltue iroptimen.                                                                                ovototdeilinogm in -ebao           -ars, dwelllngc moc ld0000-pm---t
facIy pacoto -user ftof mrrid woool- Perc.. iagso of    sr,ied c-us    of            utcto'te    so.1d u..ucupiod ports
child -hatog age (l5-44ess         who eas b   th-cootrro1 d-ict. to all marriod             Occupied dwmllom without piped water1-          Occpied c or      lvldasit-gs
osoce  -r sam  ago group.                                                                      to urbec and rtota   areas  itihout tside or outside pIped wale         facIlIties
E.Pl-t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sPerrec tags of all -ropied d-alliogs
Total lab  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   csesto sloorricty (% af all dw-11-oi) - Conv-o--Ia dw-11-ga oich
Is0LsoiAr I-.     (th ..... d) - fcEomicalty actIve pertoe  ,  -loldlog ar,sd                electricity to lioiog quater       as perceo    of total d-ellieg  -      burhan sd
forces sod ucmplayed but      cluIdlog housowio-, oudeors, etc., dofioitio-o                  ru-    aes
to cst ou u      teries are met comparbte.                                                   uRat1 dwrllieo   omce t        lcrcr        (7) - Computed as aboor for rurl
Laborftst       siacr.%           -AOgritultIt-1 labor forum (to faruieg, focemiry.               duelligs mely
hutlng sod fishing) as peroestage of total IbOr- fatom.
tsmpsyd1%oflao frc)-                 c-plyaed are usualy defioed as persoca who.aomrm
arm  blesod  ilug t  tas ajob, ou   fajb me a gi-e dawy, rosatod out                 Radts recivers fint thou see) - Alt tyPem of receivers       far radIo hruadot.
of a Job, sod smekleg woth for aseufied' atimom: period cot --ceeiog amto ge..rs-I public per thouseed of populatitme, roclod-o ociosomed recivorm
wesk, my mat be romparsbl     et h ...ee.e.utrits   due to differeor dafiftlctm                to couotrisa asd to years whemrotosoo            of radio sets was Jm efosur,
of omaplayed sod -owre        of dats, e.g. , moploymot office -stertati , eampi              dais for rece..r years may sot hm tomparsbls otoc      cost ou..tries   bho1tahed
survys,    -opolsory suespleymelloosoe                                                          li-soatg.
PI'sosr sr (et9hu op             - Ps..eoger cars comprise autar cars smarting
Inrma   dietriboti-o-  Paro...tsge  of prirstc incoma (both is sash sod kiod)                    ls    osoeight persons       -ecldss               h.b..o, ..sos   acd allitaty
received by richest 5%, rirbha       20%., Fastest- 20%, aed pooreor 40% of house-             rahiriss.
holds.                                                                                       Eleriteitiy fbkh/yr per esel    - fomu-1 ucom-ptio       of todustrial.umscil
publir sod prti-ts eleetricOty im bilowstt hours Per capits, geesrally
Distribotisn of land aseserhipe- Pert...tsgea    of laod osed by weltbhimor 10%                   base.d me prodmetise dots, without alleesoc. for io..... im grids hat sio--
sod poorest 107% of Isod a'er.log for impernssod exports of electricity.
Newp,iot (ks/yr Per -pt) - Per caPita a-..sI tme-~ptim            in bilogreos
Hsslth sod Nictritime                                                                             es. y.brfP-iig.timated from  domotir preduotioc plus met imports of -sePriot
phpytisi..  qualified from a aedlea1 sobol at aiv_rsicy level



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
ECONOHIC DEVELOPMEZ1T DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual              Rat.         Projected      1973-  1975-
1973      1974     1975     1976          1980          1975   1980         1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTSl/                                          (Constant 1975 Prices)               Average Annual
Grovth Rates     As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                    10,517    10,849   11,912  12,636            16,288     6.3     6.4            99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (F)                 57       365    .          82               113       ..     -.            +1    ..    +1
Gross Donstic Incoe                       10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718            16,401     6.1      6.6          100   100   100
Imports(incl. non-factor services)       -2,864     -4,052   -4,989  -3,904            -5,970    32.0     3.6            27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)       1.950      2.230    2.198   2.512             4.226     6.2    14.0            18    19    26
Resource Gap                               -914     -1,822   -2,791  -1,392            -1,744    75.0    -9.0             9    23    LO
Consuption Expenditures                   10,115    10,887   11,836  11,806            14,179     8.2     3.7            96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)    1,373      2,149    2,867   2,304             3,966    44.0     6.7            13    24    24
Domestic Savings                            459        327       76     912             2,222   -60.0    95.0             4     1    14
HERCRANDISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                            As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                             291        480      728     550                                              17    17
Fuels and intermediate goods              633      1,655    2,057   1,566                                              38    48
CoZsumotion Goods                          740     1.340    1 544   1.349                                              45    35
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)      1,664      3,475    4.329   3,465                                             100   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                     423        657      522     490                                             42     33
Industrial Goods                          580        617    1.046   1.115                                             58     67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)      1,003      1,674    1,568   1,605                                             100   100
Travel                                    156        266      332     383
Suez Canal                                 .                  85      308
Merchandlse Trade Indices                         Averase 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                         68        122      100     109
Import Price Index                         67        95       100     105
Terms of Trade Index                      101        128      100     103
Exports Volume Index                       94         88      100     114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                             As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                33         34       33      31
Industry, Electricity & Construction       24         26       28      28
Services                                   43        40       39       41
Total                                    100       100       100     100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                   1977
Current Prices             Budgeted                            As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                       3,142      3,648    4,593   5,673    7,821                                   30     39
Current Expenditures                   2.786      3.487    5.056   5,238    6.121                                   26    42
Budgetary Savingzs                       356        161     -463     435    1,7D0                                   4     -3
Public Sector Investment               1,141      1,446    2,337   2,196    3,502                                  11     20
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITUES DETAILS                                          Actual Prelim.               DETAIL ON                 At 1975 P and ER
(A 7. of Total Current Expenditures)                 1973    1974     1975      1976              PUBLIC SECTOR          Draft Plan
Defense  31 24   9.72  283V  INVESTMENT PROGRAM  (1976-80)     X of Total
Defense                                              39.1    24.8      lS.7^'   28.3-'
Subsidies                                            17.1    35.8      36.2     30.5              Agriculture              1,997             10
General Services                                     19.6     17.6     16.6     21.3              Industry and Mining      4,792              24
Economic Services                                    24.2     21.8     17.5     19.8              Services                  3,993             20
Total Current Expenditures                           100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0              Transport and com-
muuications (Inc. Suez)   5,191             26
Other                     3.993             20
SELECTED INDICATORS                                           1973-    1975-                      Total Expenditures       19,966            10
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                  2.08     3.6631
Import Elasticity                                             3.81     0.75-
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                           Total Labor Force                     Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
In Millions          X of Total                     In US Dollars    X of Average
1973     1975       1973     1975 0                  1973    1975     1973     1975
Agriculture                                         4.2      4.2          47    44.2                     624     858        67    66.8
Industry                                            1.2       1.2         13    12.6                   1,557   2,087       167   167.4
Service 4/                                          3.6       4.1         40    43.2                     615   1.374        66   110.2
Total                                               9.0       9.5        100   100.0                     932   1,247      100    100.0
I/ Incorporating revised GDP estimates by the Kinistry of Planning December 1976.
i/ Includes reconstruction expenditures.
3/ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976. For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
4/ Includes distribution, electricity and ccnstruction sectors.



ANNEX I
EGYPT                           Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAY4MENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual             Est.
1973      1974      1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                  1,003     1,674     1,568    1,605
Import of Goods, c.i.f.iJ                               -1,664    -3,475    -4.329  -3,465
Trade Balance                                           -661    -1,801    -2,761  -1,860
Service Receiptsl/                                         421       710     1,082   1,480
Service Payments                                          -414      -541      -801  -1,010
Service Balance                                            7       169       281     470
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                           -654    -1,632    -2.480   -1,390
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                -407      -631      -568    -545
(of which suppliers' credits)                           (277)    (-285)    (-280)  (-300)
C.   Net Reduction in Short-term Debt                         --        --       -264     --
D.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts            -113       -28      -241    -200
E.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                         -1.174    -2,291    -3,55   -2,135
F.   Supply of Funds                                        1,290     2,119     3,573   2,135
Private unrequited transfers                               6        42        91      65
Official grants                                          725     1,264       988     635
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt               --        --        --      --
Other MLT loans                                          170       199       583     665
Suppliers' credits                                       160       273       363     420
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                   --          5     1,580     470
Foreign investment                                       --          7        20      50
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits       352       585       --       235
Other monetary movements, net 2/                        -123      -256       -52    -405
G.   Changes in Reserves                                      116       172        20    n.a.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                             725     1,264       988      635
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                     --         85        77      157
IDA                                                      75         55        55      40
Other Multilateral                                       --          6       100      100
Governments                                             290        595     2,507   1,375
Suppliers/Commercial                                    160        273       363     420
Total Public MLT Loans                                  525      1,014     3,102   2,092
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                  79         95       111     231
Repayments on Public Debt                               407        631       569     545
Total Public Debt Service                               486        726       680     776
Burden on Exchange Earnings (%)
Public Debt Service                                     34.1       30.5      25.7    25.2
EXTERNAL DEBT                               Actual Debt Outstanding on September 30, 1976
Disbursed Only         Percent
World Bank/IDA                                       154.5                 2.7
Governments and Arab Dev. Funds                    4,604.4                81.2
Suppliers                                            685.9                12.1
Other MLT                                            226.0                 4.0
Total Public MLT Debt                              5,670.3               100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                       1,380.7
2/ Excludes "own-exchange" imports
2/ Includes errors and omissions



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of April 30, 1977)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit                                                           Less cancellations
Numbers      Year  Borrower            Purpose             Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Ln  243-UAR     1959     SCA   Suez Canal Expansion           56.5      --      --
Cr  181-UAR    1970     UAR    Nile Delta Drainage             --      26.0     8.3
Cr  284-UAR    1972     ARE    Railways                        --      30.0     1.9
Cr S-13-UAR 1/ 1972     ARE    Cotton Ginning Engineering      --       0.2     --
Cr  393-UAR     1973    ARE    Upper Egypt Drainage            --      36.0    18.7
Cr  412-UAR    1973     ARE    Development Industrial Bank 2/ --       15.0     2.1
Cr  423-UAR    1973     ARE    Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation   --      18.5     6.2
Cr  437-UAR    1973     ARE   Population                      --        5.0     3.9
Cr S-15-UAR3/ 1973      ARE    Talkha Engineering             --        0.4     --
Cr  484-UAR    1974     ARE    Talkha Fertilizer               --      20.0    10.0
Cr  524-EGT    1974     ARE   Ag/Ind Imports                   --      35.0     2.9
Ln 1062-EGT     1974    ARE    Ag/Ind Imports                 35.0      --      4.9
Ln 1064-EGT     1974     SCA   Suez Canal Rehabilitation      50.0      --     42.1
Ln 1085-EGT     1975    ARE    Tourah Cement                 40.0       --     26.0
Ln 1098-EGT     1975     ER    Railways II                    37.0      --     24.8
Cr  548-EGT    1975     ARE    Telecommunications              --      30.0    27.0
Cr  576-EGT    1975     ARE    DIB II 2/                       --      25.0    23.3
Ln 1239-EGT     1976    APA    Alexandria Port                45.0      --     45.0
Ln 1276-EGT 4/ 1976     ARE    Fruit and Vegetable Dev.       50.0      --     50.0
Cr  637-EGT    1977     ARE    Upper Egypt Drainage II         --      40.0    40.0
Ln 1285-EGT     1977    ARE    Upper Egypt Drainage II        10.0      --     10.0
Ln 1292-EGT     1977    ARE    Textile Rehabilitation         52.0      --     52.0
Ln 1369-EGT 5/ 1977     AWA    Alexandria Water Supply        56.0      --     56.0
Cr  681-EGT 6/ 1977     ARE    Education                       --      25.0    25.0
Totals                                                 431.5     306.1   480.1
Of which has been repaid                                 56.5      0.6
Total now outstanding                                  375.0     305.5
Amount sold                                     7.6
Of which has been repaid                        6.0       1.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 5/                      373.4     305.5   480.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(amount in US$ million)
Year   Obligor                 Type of Business   Loan   Equity    Total
1976   Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry    4.25      .75     5.0
(plus .635
contingency (5.635)
commitment)
1/ 'Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
3/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
4/ Third Window Loan
5/ Not yet effective
6/ Excluding exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
At present, about 65 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1979, i.e., 2-1/2 years behind schedule. However,
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected that the whole of
the credit will have been committed by December 1977, and that disbursement
will be completed by mid-1978. Due to inflation the local cost of the project
has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to $220 million. There is no
foreign exchange cost overrun. Progress in project implementation during 1976
was satisfactory and, for the first time, the project reached the established
annual target. Government has allocated the required local funds for the year
1977 for the implementation of the ongoing Bank/IDA financed drainage projects.
It has also agreed that local funds required in the future would be included
in the medium-term development plan.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Dates: (i) March 31, 1977,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) December 31, 1977,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the Closing Date for
the part of the Credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications items
was extended from September 30, 1976, the original date, to December 31, 1977;
the Closing Date for the other parts of the Credit, originally December 31,
1973, was extended for a fourth time to March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
At present, about 30 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50
percent of the contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange
costs have risen by about 14 percent almost entirely due to price increases
of chemicals for bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia
control program is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II project
(Loan No. 1285-EGT and Credit No. 637-EGT).
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of March 31, 1977, $12.9 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in June 1979 and the remainder of the full project financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed by June 1981. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million)
are now firm as all procurement has been completed but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works. By Presidential Decree of 1977 the Project Implementation Unit has
been upgraded to the status of a General Authority for Rehabilitation of
Ginneries which should give the management more freedom regarding financial
and administrative matters.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The project is proceeding well and mechanical completion by mid-
1978 appears feasible. Additional foreign exchange financing to cover a
32 percent cost overrun has been secured from the Arab co-lenders under the
project.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of the six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors has been completed and the five others are expected to be completed
by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Disbursement of Bank funds has now begun, the Canal Authority
having first used lower interest funds from other sources. Progress to date
on project implementation has been good, and procurement on other items to be
financed by the Bank is well advanced. A new project for the enlargement of
the canal has been appraised and is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors early in FY78. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound;
canal traffic and revenues are both higher than expected at appraisal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and disburse-
ments are proceeding. Construction of civil works is under way but at a slow
rate and is about six months behind schedule. Consultants which assisted in
bid evaluation are now assisting in supervision of project execution and
improvement of the existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) are experiencing opera-
tional difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because
of inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. A program
to remedy this situation is being discussed with Government and ER. Also,
declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a worsening of ER's financial
position. Government is considering an increase in rail tariffs proposed
by ER.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. Construction has, however, now
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed and bids for telex equipment are being
evaluated, both several months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
As of March 31, 1977, about $12.7 million had been committed under
the project and $1.6 million had been disbursed. The transfer of respon-
sibility for this project to the newly established Development Industrial
Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants have completed the first phase of their work; proposals from
management consultants have been invited. Prequalification of contractors for
dredging and construction works has started. Tender documents for floating
cranes are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Project became effective December 12, 1976, two months behind
schedule. In view of the complexity of the Project and the uncertainty
caused by delay in approval of GOE 1977 budget containing necessary alloca-
tions progress is generally satisfactory. This latter problem now appears
to be resolved auguring improved future progress. Consultants have started
their work with the Drainage Authority, as well as with Bank Misr, and the
consultants for Nubariya Seed Production Company are being procured. About
75 percent of Nubariya Seed Company farm is presently cultivated. The new
Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is rapidly coming to
grips with its tasks and ensuring that the various agroindustrial sub-
borrowers are proceeding as planned with their respective investments.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan and credit were declared effective on January 31, 1977
and project implementation has commenced.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This loan has been declared effective on February 16, 1977 and
project implementation has commenced. The two beneficiary companies have
established effective project implementation units. About 75 percent of
engineering drawings have been completed and contracts with contractors have
been signed. Prequalification of the equipment suppliers has been completed
and tender documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Action on effectiveness conditions is being initiated.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Action on effectiveness conditions is being initiated.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first identified:                             August 1976
(b)  Time taken by REA to prepare project:                 Two months
(August to
October 1976)
(c) Date of First Bank Mission to consider Project
(Appraisal Mission):                                 October 20, 1976
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:                   April 29, 1977
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:                        October 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Special conditions of loan effectiveness are that:
(a) EEA and REA would execute a subsidiary agreement acceptable to the
Bank (para. 58); and
(b) Government would set up a Special Fund for the project (para. 59).
2.        Other special conditions are that:
(a) EEA would adopt an agreed system of key indicators to monitor
its technical and financial performance and REA develop a system
to monitor the National Rural Electrification Plan (para. 41);
(b) Government would take steps as necessary to separate EEA's fixed
assets from those of REA (para. 45);
(c) Government would take steps as necessary to enable EEA to
collect overdue electricity accounts and reduce its accounts
receivable to the equivalent of 6 months sales of electricity
by March 31, 1978 and to the equivalent of 3 months sales by
December 31, 1978 (para. 46);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Government would ensure that the arrangements for management
and operation of project assets by and for the financial
performance of distribution companies, if established, are
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 48);
(e) EEA and REA would submit plans and schedules for the imple-
mentation of their respective project components for Bank
review (para. 57);
(f) Government would finance interest during construction on the
part of the proposed loan for project items to be carried out
by REA (para 58);
(g) EEA would establish the value of its assets and agree with the
Bank on the principles for periodic asset revaluation by June
30, 1978 (para. 63);
(h) EEA would submit at the end of 1978 its plans to achieve a
9 percent financial return in 1979 and thereafter, every year,
of financial plan for meeting this target rate of return in
the following year; also, by the end of 1978, EEA would im-
plement modifications in its accounting system (para. 63);
(i) EEA would submit for Bank agreement its plans to borrow, when-
ever its internal cash generation would not be sufficient to
cover its debt service at least 1-1/2 times in any future
year, and revalue its foreign debts each year in accordance
with current rates of exchange; REA would submit audited
financial statements and REA audited accounts within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 64).



ARBREULI          F GP
' Q A T T A R A A I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                     fA5t r4A  I
EPRESSION        E                       PR   OJECT
W E S T E R N                      ... ls- 
D       E S E R T                   EPAOSW SY
220 I rrsnseLneD E S E R T      i
220~~~~~~ ... Trnm:ission  Lines, Plne  or U.e  Contrutio
A55yo    U"b      - .\                              -
-26°                                  j '
Not P  E I obrt ou IBRO PrE
(Not Poto  IR  roe
A    ~E Therma Plns Eitn
T. E,,,.                                 /       ;
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION                PROJECT                  AW     s.1  El,C 
UNIFIED POWER SYSTEM                                      ElAoo
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY                             |   AWNA
- -24'   q  M F,Ipr   Arosi ApptG erroled  B                             'ini
_  500 kV  Lrnmis o .,ln  E-it.,,g                      SablC  -t DA.      24'
_  220 kV TrosI:,, o  mie.,EItn                              !E
_ _220 kV T,osiso  L-es PI-lone  , JUnder C-nt-ut-os
(N.t Poq of IBRD P,olci-c 1
TeM ci-1 Plo-ts Plonnd Elr Un,der C-won ci-n
(N.t P-1  of IBRD  P,..roc)suo..
* ThemlPos xsng-                                              3
*Hydro Pl-nts E-it,l,g:
- --nsoernos.oool Eoundaries !lETRE 
M- Rive d
0R7D 4 mm aDIOD- iS
App-L.Elte 3- -t  B-d-E,S                           t     AolAn      .
M ..  dc,,iI                               X 
_       J  SUDANi    tg5e\,~~~~



