CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1453 EGT
Guantee Agreement
(Regional Electrification Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 15, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1977, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Egyptian Electricity Authority (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to forty-eight million
dollars ($48,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS part of the proceeds of the Loan shall be made
available by the Borrower to the Rural Electrification Authority
(REA) in accordance with an agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and REA;
WHEREAS REA has agreed to carry out part of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement on terms and
conditions set forth in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and REA (hereinafter called Project Agreement);
and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and the Project
Agreement with REA, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of
the Borrower and REA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance of
all the other obligations of the Borrower and REA all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement, respectively.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes: (a) whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures;
(b) to establish, and thereafter maintain, under arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Fund from which REA may
draw without restriction to meet expenditures in local currency in
respect of the Project; the Guarantor shall adjust and replenish


﻿- 5 -
the amount in this Special Fund at monthly intervals to a level
at least equivalent to the estimated amount of payments to be made
for goods and services required for the Project, less the esti-
mated amount of payments to be made directly by the Bank, out of
the proceeds of the Loan, to suppliers, consultants or contractors
for such goods and services during the next three months' period;
and
(c) make available to the Borrower amounts equal to the
interest accruing during construction of the Project on the
principal amount of tne Loan made available to REA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement prior to the interest pay-
ments becoming due in accordance with Section 2.07 of the Loan
Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all steps, including
but not limited to legislative action, required to have the fixed
assets of the Borrower separated from those of REA.
Section 3.03. In the event the Guarantor shall decide to
establish companies or any other entities to take over the power
distribution assets of the Borrower for purposes of operation and
meintenance and the customer billing functions or for any other
purpose, the Guarantor shall ensure that such decision or
decisions shall include provisions, satisfactory to the Bank,


﻿-8-
among others, for the management, ownership, operation and
maintenance of the assets provided under the Project, the audit
of the consolidated accounts of the Borrower and the performance
of the Borrower's obligations under Sections 5.04 and 5.06 of the
Loan Agreement based on such consolidated accounts.
Section 3.04. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall take all measures necessary
on its part to enable the Borrower to reduce its accounts
receivable to (a) not more than the equivalent of six-month sales
of electricity by the Borrower by March 31, 1978, and (b) not
more than the equivalent of three-month sales of electricity by
the Borrower by December 31, 1978.
Section 3.05. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor shall
take all steps necessary on its part to facilitate the implementa-
tion by the Borrower of any action prepared by, or necessary on
the part of, the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.04 (a) of the Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic
Cooperation of the Guarantor is designated as representative of
the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministry of Economy and                  348 GAFEC UN
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By Is/ Mohamad Ibrahim Shaker
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


