CREDIT NUMBER 138 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 22, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 138 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 22, 1969


﻿Broplpmrut Trrbit Agrermut
AGREEMENT, dated January 22; 1969, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association, dated June 1, 1961 as amended Febru-
ary 9, 1967, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modification thereof (said Development Credit Regulations
No. 1 as so modified being hereinafter called the Regn-
lations) :
Paragraph 5 of Section 9.01 is amended to read as
follows:
'5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its
President."
SECTION 1.02. Except where the context shall otherwise
require, the following term shall have the following mean-
ing wherever used in this Agreement or any Schedule
thereto:
The term " Specified Enterprises " shall mean firms
notified from time to time by the Borrower to the Asso-
ciation, in such industries manufacturing capital equip-
ment and other goods of high priority for economic
development, as shall from time to time be agreed
upon by the Borrower and the Association.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred twenty-five million dollars
($125,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of
cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations.
SECTIO; 2.03. Except as 1he Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of this Agreement and the Regulations, to withdraw
from the Credit Account
(i) amounts expended for the reasonable cost of goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
(ii) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required to meet payments to be made for
the reasonable cost of such goods;
provided, however, that with respect to goods acquired by
such Specified Enterprises as shall be agreed upon from
time to time by the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall, subject as aforesaid, be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account a percentage or percentages
to be agreed upon from time to time by the Borrower and
the Association of amounts expen(led for the reasonable
cost of such goods.


﻿5
(b) No withdrawals shall be made on account of ex-
penditures prior to January 1, 1968.
(c) No withdrawals shall be made on accouni of expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods pro-
duced in (including services supplied from) the territories
of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (34 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1979 and
ending March 15, 2019, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 15, 1989 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(11/%) of such principal amount.
SECTIOx 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to the provision of the
foreign exchange required to cover the cost of acquiring
the goods needed to carry out the Project. The goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the methods and


﻿6
procedures for procurement of such goods, and the indus-
tries from which Specified Enterprises will be selected,
shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, subject to modification by further
agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
imported into the territories of the Borrower and to be
used in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project, or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence
and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of
appropriate applications issue, or cause to be issued, such
import licenses as shall be required to carry out the Proj-
ect; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed all foreign exchange which shall be
required to carry out the Project; and (iii) with respect
to locally produced materials which are subject to alloca-
tion make, or cause to be made, allocations of such mate-
rials promptly and in such quantities as shall be required
to carry out the Project.
(c) Upon request from time to time by the Association,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association
the programs and plans for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall request.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof


﻿in the Project and to record the progress of the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
relevant records and documents related to the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
the Specified Enterprises; and (iii) furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, the program (referred to in the Schedule to this Agree-
nient) of which the Project is a part, the Specified Enter-
prises, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
aibly request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall in-
clide information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform  the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.03. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free


﻿8
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.04. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
SECTION 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Specified Enterprises shall
not, on the ground that they are participating in the
Project, be subject to any conditions or requirements not
imposed on other enterprises.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii)
if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of
the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof the Association, at its
option, may declare the principal of the Credit then out-
standing to be due and payable immediately, and upon any
such declaration such principal shall become due and pay-
able immediately, anything in this Agreement to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that for the purposes of the development credit
agreement (Industrial Imports Project) dated June 9,
1964, of the development credit agreement (Second Indus-


﻿9
trial Imports Project) dated Aagust 11, 1965, of the de-
velopment credit agreement (Third Industrial Imports
Project) dated August 19, 1966, of the development credit
agreement (Fourth Industrial Imports Project) dated De-
cember 23, 1966, all the said agreements being between
the Borrower and the Association, and of this Development
Credit Agreement, an event referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of the Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association applicable to any such agreement shall
be deemed to be an event under paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of the
Association applicable to any other such agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, (i) the Closing Date in respect
of amounts for equipmenit referred to in paragraph 2(ii)
of the Schedule to this Agreement shall be June 30, 1970
and (ii) the Closing Date in respect of all other amounts
in the Credit Account shall be September 30, 1969.
SECTIoN 6.02. The date of March 1, 1969 is specified
for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
SECTIoN 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Alternative address for cables:
Ecofairs
New Delhi


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 6.04. A Secretary to   e Government of India
in the Ministry of Finance is designated for the purposes
of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ ALI YAVAR JUNG
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ ROBERT S. MONAMARA
President
d


﻿SCHEDULE
Description of Project
1. Phe Project fornis part of the prograin of the Bor-
rower to increase, during the period from April 1, 1.968 to
March 31, 1969, production for the domestic civilian market
and for export by makiing available foreign exchange for
the import of niaterials, components, spare parts and mis-
cellaneous items of manuifacturing equij)nent and thereby
improving the rate of utilization of existing productive
capacity and capital equipinent iii India.
2. The Project cousists of provision by the Borrower
of foreign exchange for:
(i) The import of naterials, components and spare
parts required by the respective Specified Enter-
prises for production for the domestic civilian
market and for export; and
(ii) The import of some miscellaneous items of capital
equipment by the Specified Enterprises.


