Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3263-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
April 8, 1982
ITis document hs a resricted disribudon and may be used by recipients ..y In the performnce of 
their offical duties. Is contets may not otherwise be disclosed withot World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units             -        Kenya Shillings (K Sh)
K Sh 1.00                   -       US$0.10 1/
US$1.00                    -        K Sh 10.00
US$1.00                     -       SDR 0.85128
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                        British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                          -       3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)                       -       2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)                     -       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq. km)          -       0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                      -       2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (t)                     -       2,205 pounds (lb)
1 bale of lint                       -       185 kilograms (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK       -    Cooperative Bank of Kenya
CDP       -    Cotton Development Program
CLSMB     -    Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD      -    Ministry of Cooperative Development
PCSC      -    Project Coordinating/Steering Committee
FISCAL YEAR
Government, CLSMB       -  July 1 to June 30
CBK                     -  October 1 to September 30
1/   Since September 1981, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR = K Sh 11.95. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = K Sh 10.00 has been used in evaluat-
ing this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:               Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARIES:          Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK), Cotton
Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) and
participating Cooperatives.
AMOUNT:                  SDR 18.7 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
TERMS:                   Standard.
RELENDING TERMS:        Government would provide funds, including the
proceeds of the IDA Credit, and channel them as
follows:
(a) US$21.1 million equivalent to CBK at an annual
interest rate of 10%, which in turn would be
on-lent as follows: (i) US$4.3 million for
vehicle purchases by CLSMB, cooperatives and CBK
for up to 4 years with interest at not less
than 13% p.a.; (ii) US$1.9 million for ginnery
rehabilitation (civil works) by CLSMB and coopera-
tives, US$6.9 million for equipment (ginnery
rehabilitation and CLSMB Training Center), and
US$4.7 million for CLSMB Incremental Working
Capital, for up to 7 years, including 2 years of
grace, with interest of not less than 13% p.a.,
and (iii) US$1.5 million to the Kendu Bay Coopera-
tive for construction of and equipment for a
new ginnery, US$0.4 million to CLSMB and coopera-
tives for equipment for cooperative buying and
paying teams; and US$1.4 million for construction
of and equipment for CLSMB's lint storage facili-
ties, for up to 12 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at not less than 13% p.a.
(b) US$2.9 million equivalent for construction of and
equipment for CLSMB and cooperative multi-purpose
field storage facilities and US$0.2 million
equivalent for construction of the CLSMB Training
Center would be provided as a grant to CLSMB and
the cooperatives.
(c) US$2.7 million for technical assistance, con-
sultants, audit, and legal and management services
would be provided as a grant to CLSMB and CBK.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(d) US$6.5 million for the incremental operating
costs of the CLSMB and cooperatives, inclusive of
local personnel (US$2.2 million), would take the
form of regular budget allocations through MOA
and the Ministry of Cooperative Development, as
appropriate.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:   The main purpose of the Project would be to improve
the post-harvest handling of cotton by improving the
cotton collection and marketing system, rehabilitating
and expanding cotton ginning, and strengthening the
technical and financial management of the principal
participating institutions.
Project activities include:
(a) improving seed cotton buying systems;
(b) providing support for transport operations
for seed cotton collection and marketing;
(c)  developing storage faci:Lities for seed cotton
and lint;
(d)  rehabilitating and expanding ginning facilities;
(e) providing technical assistance, audit, legal and
management services, and training; and
(f) strengthening CLSMB management, including
provision of adequate working capital for its
operations, and strengthening its staff and
operations.
RISKS:                  The Project involves relativtely few risks since:
(i) most investments are to rehabilitate production
facilities that worked satisfactorily in the past; and
(ii) the proposed seed cotton buying system is widely
and successfully used elsewhiere in Africa and is
already in use in some areas of Kenya. Any appreciable
risk in the Project is in the area of management. Even
here, the Project would work with existing institutions,
making the minimum of changes necessary.



- iii -
ESTIMATED COSTS:                               Local         Foreign         Total
------------US$ million ---------
Cotton Buying                              2.3             1.1           3.4
Transport                                  0.7             1.5           2.2
Storage                                    1.9             1.4           3.3
Ginning Facilities                         3.5             5.2           8.7
Technical Assistance, Audit,
Legal and Management Services,
& Training                               2.6             2.0           4.6
CLSMB Incremental Working Capital          3.9              -            3.9
Total Base Cost                      14.9            11.2          26.1
Contingencies
Physical                              1.5             0.8           2.3
Price                                 3.0             2.0           5.0
Sub-Total Contingencies               4.5             2.8           7.3
Total Project Cost                   19.4            14.0          33.4
FINANCING PLAN:                   Local      Foreign       Total    % Net Project Cost
---------…US$ million -------- …
Government of Kenya                 7.3          -          7.3              25
IDA                                 8.0        14.0        22.0              75
Net Project Cost
(Net taxes/duties)              15.3         14.0        29.3             100
Taxes and Duties                    4.1          -          4.1
Total Project Cost                 19.4         14.0       33.4
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
Bank Group FY                      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987
----------US$ Million Equivalent--------
Annual                             1.8       6.8      6.0       3.7      3.7
Cumulative                         1.8      8.6      14.6      18.3     22.0
RATE OF RETURN:               The overall economic rate of return is 28%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:             Report No. 3355-KE, dated April 9, 1982.
MAP:                          IBRD No. 15232






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A COTTON
PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 18.7 million (US$22.0
million equivalent), on standard terms, to assist in the financing of a
Cotton Processing and Marketing Project. The Government would provide funds,
including proceeds of the Credit, to the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK) which,
in turn, would channel them to the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB)
and cooperatives for cotton development investments. Funds for field storage
facilities would be provided to CLSMB and the cooperatives as a grant, as would
funds to CLSMB for a training center. Funds for increasing the institutional
capability of CBK and CLSMB would also be provided to CBK and CLSMB as a
grant. Funds for the incremental operating costs of CLSMB and cooperatives
would take the form of regular budget allocations through the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on
Agricultural Issues" (Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981, has been distri-
buted to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is in
Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya is now nearing completion.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of organi-
zational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a signifi-
cant amount of Government participation and guidance. The country has made a
smooth transition to new leadership following President Kenyatta-s death in
1978.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards



-2-
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth per capita
income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP per capita in 1980
was US$420. Agriculture accounted for more than a t:hird of GDP and about
two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum products) in 1978-81.
Since the growth of the industrial sector has been largely confined to the
major urban areas, agriculture remains the principa]L source of income in the
rural areas where over 80% of the population live and work. Kenya still has
significant problems of poverty and underemployment.  It is estimated that about
one-fourth of the population have incomes which plac:e them below the absolute
poverty line.
6.        The most fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
partly the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general living
standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has
probably resulted in an increase in the country's already high fertility
rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to mount
on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 575,000
sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially productive. However,
on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 9% can be regarded as high
potential land, with 9% medium potential and 81% low potential arid- and semi-
arid areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable potential,
and much of it is now densely settled.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in
agriculture expand,.excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even
if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very rapidly, it probably will be
unable to absorb all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising
urban unemployment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary
pressure has already been created by the growing demand for social services,
especially education. Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income
and alleviate poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of access to land
and education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments in
simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a lesser
extent, manufacturing production has also catered to the export market in
neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. The scope for further industrialization along these lines is
limited, as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have been
exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.



-3-
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly depen-
dent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts, and therefore it
is vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth
it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic
inputs and increased production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which has averaged only about 2.9% per year over 1972-79. This
reflects generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the
structural factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and insti-
tutional support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious impedi-
ments to sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing policy and
inadequacies in marketing and input supply. In addition, the concentration of
land holdings, insecure land tenure issues and problems in planning, and
execution of agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting agricultural
growth. Measures to deal with these problems are essential to revitalize the
agricultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance of
payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average annual
rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume has grown more
slowly. In 1980, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To some extent,
this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but
it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-
oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1981
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to decelerate in
mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-80, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The effects of these external shocks on balance-of-payments and
incomes were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and maize production.
As a result, GDP growth slowed to 3.1% in 1979 and about 4.0% in 1980.
GDP growth is estimated to have recovered somewhat in 1981 to 4.2%, still not
substantially greater than population growth. The trade deficit rose sharply
in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance on
current account deteriorated from an exceptional surplus of US$60 million in
1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978, while reserves fell by
US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion of the country's
foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a program of import
restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in imports and reductions
in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit in 1979. This, together



- 4 -
with increased external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of about US$179
million in gross reserves in the same year. The improvement in the balance-of-
payments proved to be short-lived. The increase in petroleum prices, combined
with the need for additional food imports, resulted in a 25% rise in the value
of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 16%, this was not sufficient to
prevent a rise in the current account deficit to almost US$900 million and,
despite increased external borrowing, a decline of US$195 million in foreign
exchange reserves. Preliminary estimates for 1981 indicate a moderate
reduction in the deficit to about US$750 million.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solutions. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and that the marketing system be made more competitive and
efficient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition to
projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production, a
series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is proposed
to redress the neglect in these areas.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance-of-payments problems, there is likely
to be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally liberal
policy on foreign investment with the important exception that review and
approval of projects for which special concessions or Government participation
are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be centralized
in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a more limited
role for Government in terms of direct participation and intervention.
However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment incentives
to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while there are doubts
in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can play in the develop-
ment process, the Plan is more specific in its recommendations for aid to
small firms (provision of financial and technical support and ending of
unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous Plan.



5-
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors, and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and had already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The Sessional Paper identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and
medium-term problems in a frank and consistent manner. It offers, among other
things, a revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the country's
urgent financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and balance-of-
payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined in
the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and adminis-
trative adjustments. In order to do so, it has devised and is executing a
program of structural adjustment.
20.       The Government's first program, which was supported by the Bank
Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involves: (a) revising of the Govern-
ment's investment program to make it more consistent with the country's
new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's creditworthiness by
improving external debt management and introducing better planning and control
of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of rationalization of the
trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports and ensuring that
exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and revising interest rate policy
to ensure that it is consistent with development objectives. The program has,
on the whole, been carried out satisfactorily.  However, actions have been
slower than anticipated in some areas and more rapid in others. While the
general thrust of the program has been maintained, attempts to execute the
policy measures have revealed some weaknesses in planning and administration
that need to be remedied.
21.       A second structural adjustment lending operation is under discussion
which, in addition to supporting continuation of the process of rationaliza-
tion of the system of industrial protection and improvement of incentives for



- 6 -
export, will include measures aimed at revitalizing t:he agricultural sector,
increasing domestic supplies of energy and encouraging conservation, and
policy initiatives in population.
22.       While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable impact
on the balance-of-payments over the longer term, the first years of the
1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for the
Kenyan economy. The prospect is for an unfavorable world environment in which
the country's international terms of trade are likely to continue to deter-
iorate. In addition, debt service obligations will be high because of high
borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past three
years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are likely to be
subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing revenues and demands
for increased expenditures. It is within this context that critical policy
decisions must be made involving a fundamental restructuring of the pattern of
development. Kenya's easy options have been exhausted and the Government must
now come to grips with the country's basic structural problems.
23.       Given the adverse external circumstances, it is unlikely that
positive growth of GDP per capita can be maintained during 1981-83. However,
growth prospects appear somewhat better from about 1983 onward provided the
Government-s structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate
external assistance. to enable its successful implementation. The country's
terms of trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should
decelerate, and current account deficits should remain stable over the next
few years. It should, therefore, be possible to follow gradually more expan-
sionary policies and a growth rate of GDP around 5% per year should be attain-
able during the second half of the decade. A feasible growth scenario would
then be one in which GDP increases at a pace equal to that of population in
the years 1982-83, then gradually accelerates, averaging about 4% per year
during the first half of the decade and over 5% by the end of the decade.
External Debt
24.       The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the dlebt service ratio, which
has risen from 3.7% in 1977 to 12.2% in 1981. This includes service payments
on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase steadily from about 15% in 1982 to a peak of
21.5% in 1991. Debt service payments to the Bank in L981 accounted for 14.3%
of total debt service payments; the IDA share was 1.2%. The Bank's share of
total debt service payments is expected to rise to about 22.8% by 1986, while
IDA's share would rise to 1.3%. The Bank is currently holding 19.4% of Kenya's
total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 10.7%. The Bank's share
is expected to rise to 24% and IDA's to about 12.5% by 1986. The expected
rise in Bank exposure is attributable largely to anticipated repayments of
loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however, is the gradual



- 7 -
switch from other donors from loans to straight grants (including conversion
of some loans to grants). Because of the long-term balance-of-payments
constraint, Kenya's development program will require substantial financing
in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital
combined, and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a
substantial portion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the EAC were outlined to the Executive
Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and in a statement
made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364).  One of the positive results of the ongoing
mediation effort has been the Partner States' decision, taken upon the
Mediator's recommendation, that the East African Development Bank -- one of
the former Community's institutions -- should continue, and a revised charter
to this effect has been enacted. The three Governments also commented on the
Mediator's proposal for the three Partner States and during their meeting in
Nairobi in July 1981, decided to commence negotiations based on the Mediator's
proposals. They started on December 14, 1981 in Arusha and continued in
February in Kampala.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 38 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 34 IDA credits amounting to US$1,341.2 million, which
support 64 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of the
EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to
Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
27.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to assist
the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant the
inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first credit in
support of the Government's structural adjustment program was approved in
1980. A second program is at present under discussion with the Government.
Recent economic work has also focused on the structural problems in specific
sectors, including the energy sector and the Basic Economic Report, now
nearing completion, is expected to address comprehensively the issues of
income distribution, population growth and appropriate long-term agricultural
and industrial policies.



- 8 -
28.       Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not
limited to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financing
and their design has been influenced by the need to complement policy actions
under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has thus been
given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis has also been
placed on sectors such as population and energy. Projects approved in FY81
included a Fifth Education Project, a Railways Project, and a fourth line of
credit to the Agricultural Finance Company. So far in FY82, a Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project and a Third Forestry Project have been approved,
while operations that have been appraised include the second structural
adjustment program, an integrated rural health and family planning project, an
urban transport project, a second telecommunications project, and an agri-
cultural technical assistance project. Projects under preparation include a
fourth power project, a grain storage and marketing project, and an urban
(small towns) project.
29.       Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in contrast
to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors accounting
for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the more pervasive
factors have been institutional/management constraints, procurement problems,
and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local financing. These factors,
together with delays in preparing and submitting reimbursement claims have led
to a deteriorating disbursement record. A comparison with the disbursement
rate for the total of other loans/credits in the East Africa region indicates
that in 1976, Kenya-s disbursement rate was 38.6% as against 20.7% for the
region; while in 1980, Kenya-s disbursement rate had decreased to 8.5% as
against 16.5% for the region. An in-depth review of the causes of the poor
project implementation performance and poor disbursements, has been under-
taken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions were discussed
with the Government in March 1982, at a country implementation review meeting
(CIR). The discussions were frank and constructive, and the Government
informed the Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve performance.
These included:
(a) A task force had been established to monitor the administration
of agencies in seeking reimbursement from the Bank Group. The use of Procedure
III (direct payment to suppliers) would be extended to more projects.
(b) A Project Implementation Committee wi:Ll be set up by June
1982, comprising the three Permanent Secretaries of the coordinating ministries
(Office of the President, Finance, and Planning) with a permanent secretariat.
A detailed reporting system will be established. The Office of the President
will be in overall charge of this operation.
(c) The Government is establishing priorities for rationalizing
the existing project commitments in order to live within present financial and
administrative limitations. The Government will consider reducing the scope
of some projects, eliminating some altogether, and stretching out the imple-
mentation periods of others. Some decisions on Bank Group projects were
agreed during the CIR between the Government and the Bank Group, including,
for example, the cancellation of a large portion (about US$23 million) of the
Sugar Rehabilitation Project. It was further agreed to have another meeting
in September 1982 to review more projects in the same! fashion.



- 9-
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$59.1 million for eight operations in
Kenya. These include loans for five companies: Pan African Paper Mills,
Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.;
Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); and Bamburi Portland Cement Company Ltd. Also
included are a US$2.0 million credit line to the Commercial Bank of Kenya, a
US$5.0 million credit line to the Commercial Finance Company of Kenya and
US$1.3 million in equity to the Development Finance Company of Kenya. As of
December 31, 1981, IFC held for its own account US$44.3 million comprising
US$35.0 million of loans and US$9.3 million of equity. A Summary of IFC
Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND THE COTTON SUB-SECTOR
Agriculture
31.       Kenya has a total land area of about 575,000 sq km (Map 15232); the
altitude varies from sea level to over 5,000 m, and climatic conditions range
from very dry in marginal areas of the north to high rainfall in the forests
of the southwest. The soils of Kenya's Central Plateau area are among the
most fertile in Africa, while those of the semi-desert, which covers half the
country, have very little agricultural potential. About 90% of the population
is rural and depends on agriculture for a livelihood. Population density
ranges from over 200 inhabitants per sq km in the Nyanza and Western Provinces,
which have good agricultural potential, to under five in the dry and semi-desert
North Eastern Province. In the early 1960s, Kenya had about two acres of high
potential land per person; in the year 2000, there will be only half an acre of
such land per person.
32.       Wide variety in systems of production reflects the differences be-
tween ecological zones and patterns of land tenure and population distribution.
A broad distinction can be made between the large-scale farming sector,
including Government farms, and the smallholder sector which employs the
great majority of the rural population. The Government defines farms of 20 ha
and below as small. There are about 1.7 million smallholdings in Kenya of an
average size of about 2 ha, covering about 3.5 million ha. Most smallholdings
are farmed by their owners. About 20% of the smallholders are considered
commercial farmers, another 20% are in a transitional stage between subsis-
tence and commercial production, and the remaining 60% are subsistence
farmers. Maize is the staple crop, but smallholders also produce a wide range
of other crops.  A land market has been established throughout most of Kenya
and individual titles are issued, thereby providing security for financing
on-farm development and the purchase of stock.
33.       During the period 1974-79, agricultural production grew at an
average annual rate of 2.7% in real terms, much lower than the rate of 4.2% in
the period 1964-73, and well below the population growth rate. Agricultural
output also grew more slowly than the economy (5%) or the industrial sector
(8%) during the period. Poor weather conditions and high prices of inputs
after the 1973 oil price increases were the main reasons for the slow growth
during 1974-76. This trend was reversed in 1977 when, as a result of good



- 10 -
weather and the boom in world prices for coffee, Kenya's main export crop,
agriculture grew at over 9%. In 1978, agricultural growth was again low
(under 2%), and in 1979, agricultural production further declined owing to
poor weather.
34.       Agricultural exports, always the largest single sector contri-
butor to total exports, were K Sh 4,300 million (US$430 million) or 56% of
total exports in 1979. Kenya normally imports significant quantities of
agricultural products, notably wheat and edible oils, but in 1980, due in
large part to adverse climatic factors, the country also had to import an
unusually high quantity (US$70 million worth) of cereals, primarily maize.
Cotton Sub-Sector
35.       The contribution of cotton production, processing and marketing to
Kenya-s GDP in 1980 was less than 1%. Despite this small contribution, cotton
is important for the development of Kenya's marginal agricultural areas, where
farm families have few cash crop alternatives, and for the operation of textile
and garment industries, as well as for the foreign trade balance. Cotton
production rarely exceeded 15,000 t per year during the colonial period, and
continued at around this level throughout the 1960s and early 1970s. In an
effort to respond to this chronic stagnation, the Government launched the
Cotton Development Program (CDP) in 1975. The cumulative impact of CDP measures
was a doubling of annual seed cotton production between 1975 and 1979 to more
than 30,000 t. A decline of about 20% in 1980 was largely due to poor
weather and disincentives to farmers arising from late payments.
36.       The Government has put great emphasis on achieving self-sufficiency
in cotton production, concentrating its program on increasing incentives
to cultivate and on removing production constraints. Key elements in this
strategy have included: (i) raising producer prices by 80% between 1975 and
1979; (ii) supplying seed for planting free of charge; and (iii) providing
tractor plowing and pesticides to cotton producers on interest-free credit.
A production target of 64,000 t of seed cotton has been set by the Government
for 1985, but a level of about 55,000 t is more likely.
37.       The cotton growing areas in Kenya are currently Nyanza and Western
Provinces (45% of total production), regions of Central and Eastern Provinces
(40% of total), the Kerio Valley, several Coastal districts, and a few irriga-
tion schemes at Hola, Taveta and Bura. Cotton is cultivated by an estimated
100,000 smallholders. Typically, 0.5 to 1.0 ha is planted to cotton,
intercropped with the predominant subsistence crop of the area -- usually
maize or legumes. Pure stands may be planted after the subsistence crop is
well established or harvested. Land preparation is by oxen plough or by
tractor if available, and weeding is done by hand or hoe. The need for
insecticide treatment is recognized, but the applicatLon rate is variable.
Yields are quite low, averaging about 350 kg/ha, although irrigation schemes
record much higher yields, indicating considerable potential for increases
through the introduction of good husbandry techniques. Cotton is the primary
source of cash income in most cotton growing areas as alternative cash crops
are limited by climatic conditions and/or market possiLbilities. At current
prices and yields, a smallholder earns about K Sh 600 per ha per crop.



- 11 -
The Cotton Processing and Marketing System
38.       Kenya-s cotton processing and marketing system is adequate, but
present production levels cannot be handled, rendering the system costly and
ineffective principally for three reasons: (i) systems for buying cotton
from farmers and moving it to the gins have not kept pace with expansion of
production and, particularly in Western Kenya, are highly inefficient; (ii)
ginneries owned by CLSMB and the cooperatives are poorly managed and main-
tained; and (iii) technical skills of those who manage the existing operations
are inadequate.
39.       The Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) is responsible for
the purchase, transport, storage, and processing of seed cotton. However, in
most areas, it has delegated these functions to cooperatives and to private
ginneries. For cotton purchasing, in Kitui, Malindi and Lamu, privately-owned
ginneries operate purchasing centers. Cotton producers are paid cash on
delivery and seed cotton is evacuated immediately to ginneries. In Embu
District (excluding Mwea), Taveta and Kerio Valley, CLSMB mobile buying
teams purchase seed cotton at agreed buying centers, while in Western and
Nyanza Provinces, as well as in Meru and Mwea, cooperatives operate permanent
buying centers. In these areas, bagged cotton is stored at the buying centers
for transport to the ginneries. Once the cotton is received at the ginneries,
payments to producers can be made. However, since storage capacity at the
ginneries is strained to its limits, the cotton cannot be moved from the buying
centers, and thus payments to farmers have been delayed up to six months. In
such cases, growers have to store seed cotton in makeshift facilities.
40.       Seed cotton is transported from buying centers to ginneries by
truck, which may be owned by CLSMB or cooperatives, or by private contractors
on hire to these organizations. Transport is inefficient due to poor scheduling,
the small loads carried, and the short distances covered, resulting in high
costs as CLSMB and cooperatives have increasingly been forced to pay private
contractors on a daily basis, rather than on a ton-km basis. Inadequate
maintenance of trucks is a further constraint. For storage, CLSMB currently
owns or rents about 330 warehouses in the principal cotton growing areas with
a total capacity of about 11,000 t of seed cotton. In recent years, this
storage capacity has proven inadequate for the increased cotton production,
given the outmoded buying systems, inefficient transport, and low efficiency
of ginning facilities.
41.       At present, 14 ginneries operate in Kenya and three more are in
various stages of planning. Total output in 1980 was about 60,000 bales. The
gins, which date from the 1930s, have a total rated capacity of about 7,300 t
of seed cotton per month. However, due to lack of spares, maintenance and
repairs, and to poor organization and management, actual ginning rates of
CLSMB- and cooperative-owned ginneries are less than half the rated capacities.
The private ginneries, on the other hand, are well maintained and efficient.
Overall, backlogs have developed, payments and sales have been delayed, and
storage facilities have become overloaded.
42.       CLSMB is solely responsible for marketing cotton lint and seed.  In
selling lint, CLSMB groups bales into 50-bale lots and takes samples from each
to evaluate lint quality. In practice, lots are extremely heterogenous due to
poor handling, grading and quality control. CLSMB transports lint to storage
facilities (where buyers take delivery) or to transit points for export, using



- 12 -
private contractors to supplement its own truck fleet. Storage of lint
destined for local manufacturers poses a problem because Kenyan textile mills,
on average, have storage facilities sufficient for at most one month's consump-
tion. Storage facilities for cotton lint are supplied by CLSMB; it owns two
warehouses in Mombasa and rents two others in Kisumu and Thika, with a total
storage capacity of about 13,700 bales of lint. In line with Kenya's protec-
tionary policies, Kenyan textile mills have been purchasing domestically-
produced cotton lint. In marketing cotton seed, CLSMB sets aside an amount
sufficient to cover planting needs for the next year before selling seed to
the local oil-seed industry; buyers take delivery and provide their own
transport.
43.       In general, cotton prices are set administratively by the Government
in its annual agricultural price review. The MOA, in consultation with the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development,
analyzes CLSMB's proposals for price changes in light of local and world
market conditions and recommends price levels to the Cabinet, which makes the
final decision. Since the launching of the Cotton Development Program, the
Government has deliberately used price incentives to encourage smallholders to
increase production of seed cotton. Current price levels are generally
considered attractive by farmers whose principal complaint is late payment,
not price levels. In setting the price of cotton lint, the Government aims to
permit CLSMB to cover its costs. With the recent devaluation, lint prices are
now more in line with international levels. The Government's pricing system
has worked reasonably well to produce prices which are equitable and provide
adequate incentives.
The Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
44.       CLSMB is governed by its Board of Directors consisting of a Chairman,
appointed by the President of the Republic, Director of Agriculture, Commis-
sioner for Cooperative Development and 10 members appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture. CLSMB's head office in Nairobi has four departments: (i)
production; (ii) marketing; (iii) technical services; and (iv) accounts
and administration. CLSMB also operates five ginneries, eight branches, and
four sub-branches in the key cotton areas. The staff in the branches and
sub-branches provide technical support to ginnery managers and monitor opera-
tions and lint quality. CLSMB currently employs about 300 people; about 60
are based in headquarters, the remainder in field offices.
45.       In addition to its other activities, CLSMB channels credit extended
by the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK) to cotton farmers through cooperatives.
With the support of MOA's extension service, it also channels funds through
the cooperatives to farmers for land preparation, seeds, crop protection
chemicals, and sprayers. Although CLSMB pays interest to CBK on these loans,
no interest is charged to farmers. CLSMB also makes loans to cooperatives
(again borrowing funds from CBK) to provide working capital for their ginning
operations and to finance ginning materials and spare parts. Loan recovery
has been a serious problem. To improve the situation, it has been agreed
between CLSMB and the cooperatives that loan payments will gradually be
deducted from the commissions due to the cooperatives for their marketing and
processing activities. In this way, CLSMB is expected to recover in full,
before June 30, 1983, outstanding loans for ginneries' working capital and
spare parts (about K Sh 25.0 million, or US$2.5 million equivalent). With
respect to outstanding input and land preparation loans to cotton farmers



- 13 -
(K Sh 25.0 million, of US$2.5 million equivalent), about 50% is expected to
be recovered up to June 30, 1983. These cost recovery arrangements are
satisfactory.
46.       Nevertheless, CLSMB's finances are in serious straits and deteriorat-
ing rapidly, largely due to rapidly rising costs of producing and
marketing lint. The principal problems are: (i) Inefficiencies in ginning
operations; (ii) CLSMB's assumption of lint transport operations; and (iii)
revisions of producer prices to favor the farmers without paying sufficient
attention to their impact on lint prices. Despite the Government's efforts to
set lint prices at levels that would allow CLSMB to cover its costs, the
recent increases in cotton production have expanded CLSMB's financial obliga-
tions as sole purchaser of cotton in Kenya, and its deficit has increased. It
has financed its operations by borrowing from the private and public banking
sectors, totalling K Sh 137.0 million (US$13.7 million) in 1980/81, of which
K Sh 80 million (US$8.0 million) consisted of commercial bank overdrafts
(covered by Treasury letters of awareness) and K Sh 57 million (US$5.7 million)
were CBK loans (all overdue). An analysis of CLSMB's cash flow for 1982/83 to
1986/87, in a without Project situation, indicates that it will, overall,
continue to lose money with the cumulative deficit increasing from K Sh 199.1
million (US$19.9 million) to K Sh 420.2 million (US$42.0 million). CLSMB's
working capital needs have been estimated at about K Sh 160.0 million (US$16.0
million) to cover borrowings now in use, further overdraft needs, and funds
tied under the Cotton Price Assistance Fund established in 1955 to receive
CLSMB profits on marketing operations, but now used to absorb marketing
losses. CLSMB's financial situation is expected to remain critical if the
inefficiencies in the processing and marketing systems are not resolved and
other causes of financial deficits are not addressed.
47.       The performance of the CLSMB during the past few years has been
mixed. On the positive side, CLSMB has installed a new accounting system
which is proving to be an effective management tool. However, while it has
played a role in the expansion of cotton production in some areas, its per-
formance with marketing and processing operations has been seriously con-
strained by management deficiencies and by the lack of adequate trained
personnel. In particular, coordination among departments is poor and requires
the personal involvement of the Managing Director. Support staff are
inadequate to meet CLSMB's operational needs and all departments have a number
of important vacancies. Training activities are virtually absent, with the
exception of an on-the-job program for junior accountants. With increases in
seed cotton production, CLSMB's financial and administrative responsibilities
have grown and resolution of its management problems is essential to the
efficient functioning of the cotton sub-sector.
48.       Of some 100 cooperatives operating in the cotton growing areas,
about 40 are directly involved with cotton production, marketing and pro-
cessing. Six cooperative unions and one society own and operate ginneries,
with an estimated 40 member cooperative societies also involved in a range of
input supply, credit, transport and marketing activities involving cotton.
No data are available on membership of cooperatives, but a high proportion
of farmers are undoubtedly affected by those organizations. In general,
largely due to management weakness and unattractive employment conditions, the



- 14 -
cooperatives are unable to retain suitable staff to manage their increasingly
diverse operations effectively. Consequently, cotton cooperative enterprises,
in particular the ginneries, are in a state of financial and technical disarray.
49.       Cotton research is currently undertaken by MOA staff at three research
stations (Tebere, Kibos, Msabaha) and one substation (Alupe); cotton research
on the Hola Irrigation Scheme is carried out by the National Irrigation Board,
advised by the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The number of technical
staff allocated to cotton research is in reasonable proportion to the importance
of the crop in the economy. Working through CLSMB, MOA is responsible for
supplying production inputs to the farmers on credit, with the exception of
seeds which are provided free. However, weak management, delays in decision-
making, and physical and financial constraints have hampered distribution
efforts. Shortages of spray pumps and spray chemicals have interfered with
recommended spray schedules and neglect of proper multiplication measures has
resulted in the distribution of degenerated seed.
50.       To achieve its goal of self-sufficiency in cotton, the Government
intends to implement a strategy which gives equal attention to the resolution
of production and post-harvesting constraints. In addition to the Government's
ongoing Cotton Development Program (paragraphs 35-36), the proposed Cotton
Processing and Marketing Project would be another element in this strategy,
addressing the key problems affecting the purchase, transport, storage and
processing of cotton.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
51.       The proposed Project was prepared by the Government of Kenya with
assistance from the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa. It was presented
to IDA with a request for financing in February 1980. The Project was appraised
in March/April 1980, followed by a post-appraisal mission in September/October
and two follow-up missions in April and July 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., during December 7-16, 1981, with the Kenyan delegation led
by Mr. A.N. Getao, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled: "Kenya: Cotton Processing and Marketing
Project", No. 3355-KE, dated April 9, 1982 has been distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. A credit and project summary appears at the
beginning of this report, and a supplementary project data sheet is given in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The proposed Project, to be implemented over a four-year period, is
accorded priority in the Government's development plan. It would help to
improve the post-harvest handling of cotton by:



- 15 -
(a) improving seed cotton buying systems;
(b) providing support for transport operations for seed cotton
collection and marketing;
(c) developing storage facilities for seed cotton and lint;
(d) rehabilitating and expanding ginning facilities;
(e) providing technical assistance, audit, legal and management
services, and training; and
(f) strengthening CLSMB management and finances, including pro-
vision of adequate working capital, and strengthening its
staff and operations.
Detailed Features
53.       Cotton Buying.  To overcome cotton buying problems in areas where
cooperatives are weak, simple modifications would be introduced to redress
bottlenecks and inefficiencies. Thirty-six mobile teams would be estab-
lished, each with a sub-team for buying and another for payment. Each buying
sub-team would be equipped with a truck, scales that print the weight on a
ticket, a calculator, and canvas packing cloths to permit bulk handling and
to facilitate inspection. With improvements in cotton transport, storage and
ginning (paragraphs 54-56), the main bottlenecks to the post-harvest handling
of cotton would be removed, and thus payments would be made in cash within two
weeks of the farmers' delivery, after deductions for debt service. This
payment procedure, known as the Member Transaction/Payment Cotton System, is
already satisfactorily used in some cotton growing areas of Kenya.
54.       Cotton Transport.  To improve the efficiency of transport service
and reduce costs during the project period, CLSMB would be responsible for
organizing and coordinating the transport of seed cotton from buying centers
to ginneries by truck, which may be owned by CLSMB, cooperatives or private
contractors. To support the reorganization of transport services, and to
facilitate the transition to the new buying system, the Project includes
provision for the purchase of transport vehicles and equipment, as well as for
the operating costs associated with these vehicles. Technical assistance
would be provided to aid CLSMB in improving its ability to schedule seed
cotton evacuation and to service its trucks. The trucks financed under the
Project and the responsibility for their operation would be gradually trans-
ferred from CLSMB to the cooperatives once they had acquired the necessary
expertise to operate and maintain them. The overall responsibility for seed
cotton transport to ginneries would be gradually transferred to cooperatives,
or arrangements would be made for handling by private transporters to the
extent necessary, following consultation with IDA, no later than January 1,
1986 (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 2, draft Development Credit Agreement
(DCA)).
55.       Cotton Storage.  The improved systems of seed cotton buying and
transport should eventually eliminate the need for storing seed cotton at
buying centers. However, during the transitional years, seed cotton will



- 16 -
continue to be stored in the buying centers- inadequate facilities. Project
activities would, therefore, include repair work on some 127 village stores
belonging to CLSMB and the construction of new stores in locations of greatest
need. In addition, warehouse capacity for cotton lint would be expanded to
accommodate five-months' supply to the mills and warehousing for storage of
parts, grading, and a "quick link" shop would also be provided. These facil-
ities would be owned and operated by CLSMB. Funds would also be provided for
the repair of CLSMB's existing Mombasa warehouse, the construction of an
additional connection to the rail line, and miscellaneous vehicles, forklift
trucks, and other equipment.
56.       Ginning.  Ginning capacity must be expanded to process the 50-60,000
t of seed cotton production anticipated in the late 1980s. This would be
accomplished through the rehabilitation and expansion of existing ginneries
and the construction of a new ginnery in a key cotton producing area (Kendu
Bay). Incremental operating costs of new gins would also be included. In
addition to the present two-grade system, CLSMB would introduce a middle grade
for cotton lint. This would enable CLSMB to constitute homogeneous lots of
lint and improve quality. The Project would also include development of
training facilities and programs to improve CLSMB and cooperative management
capabilities for their respective ginning activities.
57.       Technical Assistance, Audit, Legal/Management Services, and Training.
In order to strengthen CLSMB management and support its reorganization, tech-
nical assistance would be provided consisting of five specialists (each
for 42 months), to head the proposed Technical Services, Operations, and
Finance Departments, and the Lint and Cottonseed Marketing Division and the
Monitoring and Evaluation Division. In addition, CLSMB would establish a
Legal and Administration Division. Technical assistance would also be pro-
vided to strengthen CBK's capacity to support and monitor participating
cooperatives and to aid in monitoring CLSMB's financial condition. Provision
is made for CBK to employ a senior financial analyst for 42 months as head of
a team of financial analysts. In addition, a total of eight man-months of
consultants' services would be provided to CLSMB and CBK to assist in the
implementation and evaluation of the proposed Project. Proposals for the use
of these services would be included in the Project annual work programs to be
prepared during the course of the Project (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 5,
draft DCA). A condition of Credit effectiveness is that the heads of the
Technical Services and Finance Departments of CLSMB and the CBK senior finan-
cial analyst have been employed and are in post (Section 5.01(c), draft DCA):
A suitable candidate for the head of the Operations Department has already
been identified by CLSMB. In addition, the Project includes provisions for
strengthening the audit capacity of the Ministry of Cooperative Development
(MOCD). Training provisions under the Project would include construction of
a training center at Mwea for CLSMB and cooperative ginnery managers and
operating personnel, in-service courses and overseas training programs, and
technical assistance for programming and evaluating training activities.
58.       CLSMB Working Capital.  To assist in alleviating CLSMB's critical
financial problems, an agreement has been worked out for a loan by a con-
sortium of banks. This would take the form of a three-year, renewable,



- 17 -
revolving line of credit, initially carrying interest at 13%, under cover of a
Government guarantee. It would be administered jointly by CBK and the First
National Bank of Chicago. Cabinet has approved the issuance of the Government's
guarantee of the CLSMB's financial agreement with the consortium; Parliamentary
confirmation is pending and will be obtained before credit signing. The execution
of this agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(d),
draft DCA). Funds to be provided under the Project for CLSMB's incremental working
capital requirements to be managed as a revolving fund would supplement the
revolving line of credit described above.
Project Costs and Financing
59.       Total Project costs (including taxes and duties) are estimated at
K Sh 334.4 million (US$33.4 million), with a foreign exchange component of
K Sh 140.6 million (US$14.0 million), or 42% of total costs. Import taxes and
duties on goods and services not eligible for exemption from customs plus
taxes and duties on fuel and other operating costs amount to K Sh 41.1 million
(US$4.1 million), or 12% of the total. The Project cost net of taxes and
duties amounts to K Sh 293.4 million (US$29.3 million). Cost estimates are
based on end-1981 prices. A physical contingency of 10% was applied to all
Project costs, excluding technical assistance. Expected local and interna-
tional price increases were applied on baseline costs plus physical contin-
gencies as follows: for local costs, 15.0% in 1982, 9.0% in 1983, and 8.0%
thereafter; for foreign costs, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983 til 1985, and 6.0%
thereafter. The costs of technical assistance personnel (including salary,
allowances and international travel) average US$8,000 per staff-month; about
21 staff-years would be required. The average consultants' staff-month cost,
inclusive of salaries, international travel and subsistence, would be about
US$7,700 (eight staff-months).
60.       To finance the Project, the Government of Kenya would contribute
K Sh 73.3 million (US$7.3 million) or 25% of total Project cost (net of taxes
and duties), and IDA would contribute K Sh 220.1 million (US$22.0 million) or
75% of net Project cost. The Government would also bear the taxes and duties.
The Credit would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs and about 50% of
local expenditures. The Government would provide funds, including the proceeds
of the IDA Credit, as follows:
(a)  US$21.1 million equivalent to CBK at an annual interest rate
of 10%, which in turn would be on-lent: (i) US$4.3 million for
vehicle purchases by CLSMB, cooperatives and CBK for up to 4
years with interest at not less than 13% p.a.; (ii) US$1.9
million for ginnery rehabilitation (civil works) by CLSMB and
cooperatives, US$6.9 million for equipment (ginnery rehabilita-
tion and CLSMB Training Center), and US$4.7 million for CLSMB
incremental working capital, for up to 7 years, including 2 years
of grace, with interest of not less than 13% p.a., and (iii)
US$1.5 million to the Kendu Bay Cooperative for construction of
and equipment for a new ginnery, US$0.4 million to CLSMB and
cooperatives for equipment for cooperative buying and paying
teams; and US$1.4 million for construction of and equipment for
CLSMB's lint storage facilities, for up to 12 years, including 4
years of grace, with interest at not less than 13% p.a.



- 18 -
(b) US$2.9 million equivalent for construction of and equipment for
CLSMB and cooperative multi-purpose field storage facilities
and US$0.2 million equivalent for construction of the CLSMB
Training Center would be provided as a grant to CLSMB and the
cooperatives.
(c) US$2.7 million for technical assistance, consultants, audit, and
legal and management services would be provided as a grant
to CLSMB and CBK.
(d) US$6.5 million for the incremental operating costs of the CLSMB
and cooperatives, inclusive of local personnel (US$2.2 million),
would take the form of regular budget allocations through
MOA and MOCD, as appropriate.
A spread of 3% would be adequate to ensure that CBK-s participation in the
Project would be financially viable. Maturities of the loan from the Govern-
ment to CBK would be scheduled so as to match maturities of individual loans
from CBK to CLSMB and cooperatives. The above lending terms and conditions
would be incorporated in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and CBK and in a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between CBK and CLSMB (Schedule
2, Part III, draft DCA). The execution of such Subsidiary Agreements would
be conditions of Credit effectiveness (Sections 5.01(a) and 5.01(b), draft
DCA). In keeping with the Government-s interest rate policy, the interest
rates set forth in the legal documents would be adjusted from time to time in
light of changes in the maximum allowed loan interest rate of commercial
banks and in order to maintain positive rates in real terms. Prior to
effecting any change in said interest rates or the 3% spread between the
interest rates at which CBK borrows and relends proceeds of the Credit, the
Government would consult with CBK and IDA on the impact of the proposed
changes on the execution of the Project.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       Contracts for purchase of vehicles and equipment of US$100,000
equivalent or more, totalling about US$11.7 million equivalent, would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines (Procurement Schedule, Part A, draft Project Agreement (PA)).
Purchases would be grouped for bidding as far as possible. Qualified domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% of the CIF price or the
level of applicable import duty, whichever is the lower. Contracts for goods
valued between US$30,000 and US$100,000, which would total about US$0.6
million equivalent, would be awarded in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory (Procurement Schedule, Part C, draft
PA). Orders of up to US$30,000 equivalent for other goods would be procured by
negotiated purchase, normally on the basis of at least three suppliers- quota-
tions, up to an aggregate limit of US$0.6 million equivalent (Procurement
Schedule, Part C, draft PA). Civil works contracts for construction of storage
facilities (US$4.3 million), buildings for the ginneries (US$2.2 million) and
the CLSMB Training Center (US$0.2 million) would be too small and too dispersed
to attract international contractors and would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Locally-based contractors
exist in sufficient numbers and are capable of carrying out the required



- 19 -
works. Draft tender documents and bid analyses would be submitted to IDA for
approval before award of contracts. Technical assistance and consulting
services (inclusive of audit and legal and management services), estimated to
cost about US$2.4 million and US$0.5 million, respectively, would have quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 5, draft DCA).
62.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) Civil Works - 80% of civil works expenditures for raw cotton and lint
storage facilities, buildings for ginneries, and the training center, US$4.5
million; (b) Vehicles - 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expendi-
tures, US$2.9 million; (c) Equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures, US$4.8 million; (d) Technical Assistance - 100% of
foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for technical assistance to
CLSMB and to CBK, consultants, audit, and legal and management services,
US$2.2 million; (e) Incremental Operating Expenses - 25% of incremental
operating expenditures, including local personnel, for CLSMB, cooperatives and
CBK, US$1.3 million; (f) Incremental CLSMB Working Capital Needs 80% of CLSMB
incremental working capital needs, US$3.1 million; and (g) Unallocated -
US$3.2 million. Disbursements against (a), (b), (c), and (d) would be fully
documented. No disbursements would be made against (a) and (c) for ginneries
unless detailed investment plans have been approved by IDA and the Project
Coordinating/Steering Committee (paragraph 64) to be established under the
Project (Schedule 1, Section 4(v), draft DCA). Disbursements against (e) and
(f) would be made against statements of expenditure, with the supporting
documentation retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by
IDA supervision missions and by independent auditors.   With respect to (f),
disbursements would only be made to cover CLSMB incremental seed cotton
purchases and ginning fees up to the following maximums of bales of lint
equivalent per Project year: Year 1, 7,200 bales and Year 3, 6,900 bales.
Disbursement would be made against (f) only in Project years in which incre-
mental purchases of seed cotton produced and ginning fees in bales of lint
equivalent are higher than in the immediately preceeding Project year
(Schedule 1, Section 4(iv), draft DCA).
Accounts and Audits
63.       CLSMB, CBK and the cooperatives would open and administer separate
Project accounts and would keep records consistent with sound accounting
practice (Section 3.02(a), draft DCA and Sections 4.01(a) and 4.01(b), draft
PA).  CLSMB-s accounts are up-to-date and audited by an independent accounting
firm acceptable to IDA. This arrangement is expected to continue during the
Project implementation period.  CLSMB's accounts and auditor's reports would
be sent to IDA not later than six months after the closing of CLSMB's finan-
cial year (Section 4.02, draft PA). CLSMB would also make arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for the independent audit of expenditures under the
Project for disbursements made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(Sections 4.01(b) and 4.02, draft PA). It would also furnish to IDA any other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of CLSMB, and the
audit thereof, as IDA might reasonably request. CBK's accounts are in good
order and are audited regularly by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.



- 20 -
The responsibility of auditing Government ministries rests with the Controller
and Auditor General. For parastatals, including CLSMB, an independent audit
must be carried out and the report submitted to the Controller and Auditor
General and to the Inspector of Statutory Boards in the Ministry of Finance.
These arrangements have been reviewed and are satisfactory. The accounts of
cooperatives are audited by the Audit and Accounts Division of MOCD, which is
currently understaffed and would be strengthened under the Project through
provisions for appointment and operation of eight audit/accounting field
units. MOCD may also commission the audit of cooperatives to external private
auditors. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to audit
Project-related entities and accounts, including specifically an initial
audit of participating cooperatives, to be furnished to IDA as soon as avail-
able (Section 3.03, draft DCA, Section 4.02, draft PA, and Schedule 2, Part
II, Section 7, draft DCA).
Organization and Management
64.       To ensure effective Project coordination at the highest level, a
Project Coordinating/Steering Committee (PCSC) would be established (Section
3.04, draft DCA). The PCSC would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance, and would comprise the Permanent Secretary of MOA or his
Deputy, the Permanent Secretary or the Commissioner of MOCD, the General
Manager of CBK, and the Managing Director of CLSMB. The PCSC Chairman would
call for meetings at least twice a year to review progress, approve semi-annual
reports and resolve outstanding issues. Before April 30 of each year, it would
meet to review and approve work programs and budgets. To strengthen CLSMB,
organizational and management changes would be introduced, including the
replacement of the current network of branches and sub-branches with four
regional offices each staffed with a Regional Manager (in charge), a Ginneries
Inspector and supporting staff. Seven sub-regional offices would be main-
tained, each staffed with a manager and supporting staff. A CLSMB Field
Officer would be permanently posted at each ginnery. Within CLSMB, a Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Division and a Legal and Administrative Division would be
established. CLSMBEs organizational structure, as well as the terms of
reference for the key CLSMB staff, are satisfactory to IDA. The Project would
assist participating cooperatives in assuming increased responsibilities for
the management of cotton marketing and processing activities. With the
assistance of MOCD, CLSMB and CBK, the cooperatives management, accounting
procedures, and financial controls would be improved, and a detailed invest-
ment plan for ginnery development would be prepared for each cooperative by
CLSMB and CBK, in cooperation with MOCD. Responsibility for management of
three ginneries would be transferred from CLSMB to a cooperative (and assigned
to a cooperative for the new Kerio Valley ginnery), based on feasibility
studies to be carried out by CLSMB, CBK and the cooperative concerned. If
such feasibility studies indicate that any cooperatives are not creditworthy
according to CBK's normal banking criteria, CBK and CLSMB shall work out
detailed proposals to remedy the situation; such proposals should be submitted
to the Borrower and IDA for their approval. The arrangements for feasibility
studies and transfer proposals are satisfactory to IDA, and all plans would be
submitted to IDA for approval (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 4, draft DCA). It
would be a condition of disbursement for each ginnery investment that a plan



- 21 -
had been approved by IDA and the PCSC (Schedule 1, Section 4(v), draft DCA).
As all post-harvest handling of cotton (except transport) would be carried out
by cooperatives, a mid-term review would be carried out before the end of 1984
improvement program (Section 2.06(a), draft PA). If progress in strengthening
the cooperatives' management has not been satisfactory, this review should
specifically consider alternative management arrangements, including the
establishment of limited liability companies (Section 2.06(b), draft PA). To
strengthen MOCD's audit capacity to support the cooperatives, eight teams of
accountants and auditors would be set up in cotton producing areas. With
technical assistance undertaken in cooperation with CLSMB, CBK would review
the financial viability of investments prepared by cooperatives and the CLSMB,
and establish conditions and procedures to ensure that these entities operate
on a financially sound basis. This assistance would also help strengthen
CBK's capability in identifying, appraising and supervising agro-industry
projects, so that it can advise cooperatives. Jointly with the First National
Bank of Chicago, CBK would administer the lending facilities extended by
commercial banks to CLSMB.
65.       Staffing.  The terms of reference for the five technical assistance
staff and the senior financial analyst to be engaged under the Project are'
satisfactory to IDA. Many of the key staff required for ginnery operations
are already in post; the remainder would be recruited locally. Additional
staff required for other Project activities would also be recruited locally.
The Department and Division heads of CLSMB would be filled at all times by
individuals with qualifications acceptable to IDA (Section 3.01(b), draft PA).
66.       Annual Work Programs and Budgets.  The preparation of annual work
programs and budgets (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 9, draft DCA), would start
in November in the cooperatives and CLSMB regional offices, with the participa-
tion of the CLSMB Field Officers and MOCD's District Officers. It would be
finalized at CLSMB, MOCD and CBK in Nairobi in January and submitted to
Treasury not later than February 15. The proposed program and budget would
then be reviewed by the Treasury and submitted to IDA for approval not later
than March 31, before presentation to the PCSC not later than April 15 of
each year. A condition of disbursement would be the approval by IDA
and the PCSC of annual work programs and budgets for the period and Credit
categories to which each program is related, except that expenditures for
incremental operating costs may be made prior to the approval of the annual
plan for any project year to the extent that funds were allocated for such
costs in the approved annual plan for the previous project year and remain
unspent (Schedule 1, Section 4(ii), draft DCA).
67.       Training.  To help address the staffing constraints of CLSMB and the
cooperatives, a CLSMB Training Center would be constructed at Mwea for ginnery
managers and operating personnel. In addition, CLSMB, in consultation with
MOCD, would prepare a detailed training program for CLSMB and cooperative
personnel by September 30, 1982; it would be submitted to IDA for review and
comments not later than October 31, 1982, and would be promptly submitted to
the PCSC for approval, but not later than December 31, 1982 (Schedule 2, Part
II, Section 6, draft DCA).



- 22 -
68.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  CLSMB's new Monitoring and Evaluation
Division would design and implement, not later than September 30, 1982, a
monitoring and evaluation system (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 5, draft DCA).
Information would be obtained from the institutions involved in Project imple-
mentation in order to assist managers in: (i) collecting statistics on Project
components for further evaluation and reporting needs; (ii) assessing progress
towards targets set out in the annual work programs and budgets; (iii) identify-
ing problems and constraints; and (iv) managing the Project effectively at all
levels. CLSMB would formally request and obtain completed questionnaires every
quarter as a step in each institution-s participation in the formulation of
work programs. CLSMB would prepare semi-annual reports summarizing Project
progress and performance, which would be submitted to the PCSC and IDA for
review. The format and contents of these reports would be discussed in detail
during the first IDA supervision mission. The CLSMB would prepare a completion
report summarizing Project performance and evaluating its impact. The report
would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the expected closing
date (Section 3.05, draft DCA and Section 2.04(d), draft PA).
Financial Analysis
69.       Market Prospects.  Kenyan textile mills are the principal consumers
of Kenyan cotton lint, which they blend with imported lint and synthetic
fibers. The mills- consumption is such that surpluses of high-quality lint
are exported, while some low-grade lint is imported to meet shortfalls by
local producers. On balance, Kenya is a small net exporter of cotton lint
and is expected to remain so, with or without the project.
70.       Prices.  Under the Project, the Government-s price-setting system
for cotton (paragraph 43) would be continued as part of its annual agricultural
price review, taking into account adequate incentives for farmers, the
financial stability of CLSMB and other institutions involved in cotton
processing and marketing, and parity with international price levels (Section
3.07(a), draft DCA). In addition, the Government and IDA would periodically
review the prices set to ensure their consistency with these criteria (Section
3.07(b), draft DCA).
71.       On the basis of the above market projections and prices, detailed
financial projections for CLSMB, the cooperatives and the Government indicate
that the overall base financial rate of return (FRR) on investments over a
15-year period would be 23%. Sensitivity analyses show that, if implementa-
tion delays were to result in a cost overrun of 10% or in a similar decline in
benefits, the FRR would fall to about 16%. More efficient buying, storage,
transport and ginning operations would be expected to have a beneficial effect
on CLSMB's financial position. Further improvements would be expected to
result from CLSMB's ceasing to provide interest-free financing of farm inputs
for seed cotton production, which can be better performed by other financial
institutions in Kenya. As there may be an interim period during which another
financial mechanism is being established, CLSMB may have to continue financing
inputs in the short-term. In this event, a separate accounting system for
CLSMB's farm input operations should be maintained and the sources of financing



- 23 -
clearly identified. CLSMB would cease to finance farm inputs for seed cotton
production not later than July 1, 1983, and separate accounts would be kept
until this phaseout occurs (Section 3.04, draft PA). Cooperatives participat-
ing in the Project would undertake no new investments or financial commitment
with respect to operations other than those related to cotton processing and
marketing without prior consultation, through MOCD, with CLSMB, CBK and IDA
(Section 3.05, draft PA and Section 3.06, draft DCA).
Economic Benefits, Justification and Risks
72.       Benefits would accrue to CLSMB and the cooperatives due to improve-
ments in their operations which would considerably reduce the cost of process-
ing and marketing cotton and, in so doing, improve quality and induce
farmers to increase production. About 40% of the benefits would stem from the
net value of induced cotton production. Other major benefits would be the
value of additional lint produced due to the slightly higher ginning percentage
of new gins, and savings in the operations of existing ginneries and in the
new seed cotton buying and paying systems. Economies would also be realized
in transport of seed cotton to ginneries. Cotton farmers would benefit
because they would be assured that they could sell their cotton and be paid
promptly, thereby providing them with an incentive to increase production.
Additional benefits, not quantified, include quality improvements in cotton
lint, utility of the warehouses which are to be used for general purposes
after the new system of handling and transport is instituted, and improvements
in CLSMB's handling of lint due to the construction of terminal warehouses.
73.       The economic benefits of the Project were calculated on the assump-
tion that Kenya would be a net exporter of cotton with or without the Project.
If Kenya were to become a net importer of cotton, either with or without the
Project, then economic benefits would accrue at the higher import parity of
cotton, and the economic rate of return would be higher than estimated
here. Adjustments have been made in the financial cost of unskilled farm
labor, both hired and family, to reflect the opportunity cost of such labor in
Kenya's labor surplus economy. Taxes and duties have been deducted from
costs. Based on these assumptions and adjustments, the internal rate of
return to Kenya's economy from the Project over a 20-year period is estimated
at 28%.
74.       The Project's impact on the environment would be modest, but positive.
In the ginneries, the installation of blowers would enable seed cotton to be
moved from storage to the gins with less air pollution. Moreover, they would
be better lighted, and thus safer. Improvements in buying operations would
drastically reduce the need for storage in makeshift village stores and in
farmers' houses, which would improve living conditions and reduce the risk of
fire.
75.       The Project involves relatively few risks.  Most investments are
to rehabilitate production facilities that once worked satisfactorily and
could do so again. The proposed seed cotton buying system is widely and
successfully used in a number of other African countries, and is already in
use in some areas in Kenya. Any appreciable risk in the Project is in the



- 24 -
area of management. Even here, the Project would work with existing institu-
tions, making the minimum necessary changes. Sensitivity tests show that,
due to the structure of Project costs and benefits, the projected rate of
return of 28% is singularly insensitive to likely changes in benefits. For
instance, benefits would have to be lagged by more than two years without
lagging costs at all before the rate of return would fall below 16%, Kenya's
estimated opportunity cost of capital. Similarly, the Project would have to
suffer a shortfall in benefits by about one-third (32%) before the rate of
return fell below 16%. On the cost side, it would require a cost overrun of
47% to bring the rate of return to 16%. Decreases in the cotton prices that
would bring the Project's rate of return below 16% would have to be nearly
75% -- much larger than any foreseeable fluctuations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, the draft Project Agreement (PA) between the Cotton
Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) and the Association, and the Recommen-
dations of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
77.       Conditions of effectiveness include:  (i) The heads of the Technical
Services, Operations, and Finance Departments of CLSMB and the CBK senior
financial analyst have been appointed and are in post (Section 5.01(c), draft
DCA); (ii) an agreement satisfactory to IDA covering the terms and conditions
of a revolving line of credit between CLSMB and a consortium of commercial
lending institutions had been executed (Section 5.01(d), draft DCA); and (iii)
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CBK and a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement between CBK and CLSMB have been executed
(Sections 5.01(a) and 5.01(b), draft DCA). Special features of the draft DCA
are referred to in Annex III of this report.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 8, 1982



- 25 -                                                     ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                         Page  1  of  6
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. aM.)                                                       - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            582.6                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      60.4              1960  /b   1970 Ab ESTIMATE fb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 100.0       170.0      380.0                794.2                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     150.4       122.1     180.1                707.5                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 8189.0      11253.0   15274.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4        10.2      13.8                  27.7                    64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      34.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.1        19.3      26.2                  55.0                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2       191.4    244.4                  130.7                    94.5
PUPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.6        48.9      50.0                 46.0                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                         49.8        48.6      47.6                 51.2                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.5       2.4                  2.8                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         3.2       3.4                   2.8                     2.4
URBAN                              5.2         6.4       6.8                   5.1                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH. RATE (PER THOUSAND)    52.0        52.7      51.3                  46.9                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH SATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0         17.5      13.4                  15.8                     8.4
GRUSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.6         3.8       3.8                   3.2                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0       100.0      86.0                  89.9                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   99.0        99.0      88.0                  92.3                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          70.0        68.0      52.0                  52.8                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0        28.0      20.0                  16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY SATE     34.0        22.5      15.2                  20.2                     7.6
HEALTIH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3        49.1      54.7                  50.8                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.0/c     119.0      91.0                    *-                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIUN)
TUTAL                               ..        15.0      17.0                  27.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.0                  74.3                    79.7
RURAL                               ..         2.0       4.0                  12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATIUN)
TOTAL                                         50.0      55.0                                          59.9
URBAN                               ..        85.0      98.0                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                               ..        45.0      48.0                    ..                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10690.6      7830.9/d 11625.2/d             13844.1                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2230.0/c.d  1474.1/d  1085.7/d              2898.6                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            807.0Lc     774.1     770.8                1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                               ..          ..    602.1                  423.0                   558.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    802.8                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.7
URBAN                               ..         4.7
RURAL                               ..         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.5/c        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TASL8 3A
UMAAL INDICATORS DTA sT
Kim            XS                 NCE GROU5 (UZ1TD AllS
ST hl   D- MOST R I &STmA
MDST ntZtLT         IADDU INICOKR             1a       I NCC(Z
1960  lb    1970 Lb ISTINATE /1   AlCPA 50TH Of SANAA  *LSTI ARUICA 6 CAaIXUAI
ROOCATTON
ADJUSfTD EROLLMT  ATIOS
PIDRY:       TOTAL                47.0        60.0      99.O                  73.7                   101.7
MALL                 64.0        70.0     105.0                  %J.8                   103.0
PMLE                 30.0        49.0      94.0                  79.0                   101.5
SRCOIDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         8.0      18.0                  16.2                    35.3
MALI                  3.0        12.0      22.0                 25.3                     34.9
t3W.                  2.0         5.0      14.0                 14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL E3OL. (Z O  SECONDAY)    ..           2.0       2.0                  5.3                     30.1
PUPXL-TEACaU  RATIO
PRtD4AY                           42.0        34.0      33.0                  36.2                    29.6
SECONDARY                         15.0        21.0      25.0                 23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITUACT RATE (PERCEIT)        20.0/c      30.0      45.0                    ..                    80.0
CONSUMPON
ASSENCR CAtS PU ThOUSAD
?OOLATION                          8.0         8.5       8.0                 32.3                    42.6
RADtO UCEVIMS PM THUSA4D
POPULATION                         7.0        4.4       36.8                 $9.0                    215.0
TV UCEIVERS PER TYOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.3         1.4       4.2                  8.0                    89.0
UVSPAPU ("DAILY GINRAL
INTEEST") CIRCULATIONI Pa
THOUSAND POPULATION                 13.0        13.8      11.2                 20.2                     62.8
CINMA ANEAL ATTtNDANCE PU CAPITA  1.0             ..       0.4                  0.7                      3.2
LABOR 101KCR
t-OAL LARL  voicE (ousaNs)        3299.8      4319.7    5530.0
FIMALE (PERCENT)                  34.5        34.3      33.5                 36.7                    22.8
AmICULTUU (PERCENT)               68.0        82.0      78.4                 56.6                     35.0
INwST (PnERE)                      5.0         7.0       9.6                 17.5                    23.2
PAATICIPATION RATE (PERCT)
TOTAL                               40.3        38.4      36.2                 37.2                     31.8
MALE                                53.3        50.9      41.5                 47.1                     69.0
rEMALE                              27.5        26.1      24.1                 27.5                     14.6
ECCOOMIC  PEMNDNCY RATIO               1.2         1.3       1.4                  1.3                      1.4
INCOKE DISTRIBUTION
PECENT O  PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
IIIGEST 5 PERCENT Of ROUSEMOLDS     ..        20.2/       .
HIGHCST 20 PRCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS               52. 67;..
LOVZST 20 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS                3.97;
LOWEST 40 PERCEINT OP HOUSEHOLDS              11. 771
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMA2tD ASOLUTE  POVETY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URUAN                                                  150O                 361.2
RURAL                                .                 112.0                156.2                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVMTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PEU CAPITA)
URBA                                                   1 ..  179.0          334.3                   513.6
RURAL                                .                 106.0                137.6                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION 8ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVETY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      10.0
RURAL                                                   55.0
Hot available
Not applicable.
MOTEM
/a  The group averages for ech indicator are population-eighted arithmic seang. Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unliss othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any Yer betwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwCu 1969
and 1971; and for Mot Recenc atrluate. between 1976 and 1979.
tc  1S2; /d Rgiscered, not can practicing in the comcmry;  /. Urban only.
ay, 1961



- 27 -                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the  data are drawn f.oe  sources generally judged the most authoritative aod reliable, it should  also he -oted that they say rot he onter-
eatlotally comyorable bercoI e of the lock of standardized definitions and coecopro uoed by different cocoonlee to ccllectoig the data.  The d. t  are, Ione-
theless, ...fcl to deecribe orders of magnude, idcate treed a, cod rheracterlie ceroait majoo difference  btw              
The refereoce groups ore (l) rth, ame rcetey group of the  chbjeot country aad f2) aoouotry grocp with somebhat higher -oerage itcome thee the .county gfoup
of the eJIer  countey (emcept for "CaFital Surplus Oil Efporters" group vhere "Middle IIcrse North Afrlia cod Moddle Eice" ito  hosen hecase of etreeger
sooto-oculecel t ffrntaet).  In the referce group dots the aterages are Fpoplatitn -eighted  Itmehmetio tlean  fcr esth indicator and sha.s oely ohee
majority of tho countres inra group hoe dafa  for that leditaror.  lite the coverage of  rcourtre, ammng the Dodctors ceyerd ethe availability of date
cod he not cnifor=, cautono east he exeroised it relating ateotBet of one teditcator to another. These eoersags are only cetocu in comycring the nalce of
are iedicator ena time among tOhe couctry and refereoco gro-p.
LAND AREA (thoosand aqkm.)                                                                   Fopulatonl per fcaFOtcl led - totri, uohat, cod rorol - Fopulatio  (total,
Total - To tal surface oree co=priairg ld area end inland waters.                            urban, ctd rural) divided by thlee rempeFore ns tuer of hoopiatl heds
hericultural - Dottoato of agrtoultural area used teeForarily or permanently                 arailable in FthllO  cod prtvate general ord oFentalised hospital and re-
for roops, pasrtres, markrt aed kitDhen gardeot or so DOe Dallto; 197B date                babiliatlion restore.  Eopitala err e_oahl_t  hmeots permanoetly stafted
GNf PER CAPITA (US$) -                                                                          byF For CaFt ettsatt at crrent mtrket prices. cal-   dial  I.re co noItio laded,  tural hosFits. Po= enet, erliplodly heath
ruloted by some ronverticn osthod  a W-orld Bonk Atlas (1977-79 basit); 1960,                aed sedical tottert  coo perornentlty emffrd hy a phytsican (hbt hy a
1970, and 1079 data.                                                                           edirtl as-i-r-no, euree, =idvife, eto.) vhich offer in-pFtrlnt aroon-
datior... ad Frpl,.de a lintted riIgn of medicl1 faliliteo..  Ieercs
ENERGY CONSUPFTION FER CAPITA - Annual conmptlion of  -o-eroial stergy (oral                    tirol purposes urbhe  hospitals inol de   OfIhI oacl/feces  hortials,
ard lignite, Fetrolece, arural gas and hydro-. ocolear ond geothermal alec-                  cod rural ho-pitals lcaD  or rurol hosFitals and m        1edinl and mateonity
tticity) ir kilegroai of tci eqolnalerO  Fer caplt; 1060, 1970, cod 1979                     cenrers.   pe-ialzeed hospitals ore included only under ttol.
daoa.                                                            Admissions rot~~~~~~~~~~~~ "psi"a led - Toia  onbor ot adei.siar  so 00 di-ohinges
data                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~from hosplrols dyivde,d hy the ramber otf beds.X-inst   rdicag
POFULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total                                                                                      hor1ere tize of roacehold (persons Pee houtehold) - total, arbor, eed easel-
differeut itionsfob an erc  man affec romparability of daia                                co d tr m       mt. of hoarde  otr lodger may or may not he molded to
aImog ouoroea; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dca.t                                                  tOe household for snotietical pcrposesl
Fo1tlinios Projecoicee                                                                     ,bteraeonumber of perso=s cer room- total. urhn, cd runal - A
Frenlatico  io yoan 2000 - Careront PoFPleton projectIons arc based do 109S                ber of persons per Ioom In all urhao, sod rcral occepied  ootentiortl
total popnlation by age and sew cod tieli  mrrtality end fertltnity rante.               dIelllngs, resFeonloely   Dvellirgcsc -Icde.no-permrentsrrurtornsand
Frejoolon perseeters foe mmrtality eaten comprise of orese letelscn e s-                 onnou-purd part.
ing life neysonon1y at birth increasing oith  -crtry' pFor capita inoor                Access no ileotrioltr (percent of deelliroel - total, urban, cod rurol -
lerel, ond female lift eePectary stabilizing ot 77.1  years.  The pare-                  Coneretonal dvellings  itsh electriciry in liting quarters as Ferrontago
monens for fertility  rate olso hove three levels as I  ing dec-ie in                    of  orta, orban.  and rural d-elltiogs respectitely.
fertility occording tn in-coe level cod pasr family planning perftcmace.
Eaoh routty is thfe  ussigned ore of toese line comhinaticns of mortality            EDUCATIDt
and fertility  resds for projection purposes                                           AdJnsted Irrollern Oaties
Btationary population-Inasrationary populntion there is Io growth tirce                    Primary school - rooa,  male and female - Gross total, male and female
the bilth rate Is oqhl t toho deth raI    and also the age  it   t.ere-                    enrol ment of al  egoc at the Fimnry_lel   meu peeetfeeof rsesprtn
maesrr Iat.Th           hiafleedrlyate yfIidDy ossdelees                                slmr  oholog   epDtine   reoll  ioudeohlde  ae  61
the replanmenn lerel of coit net  cfrroduertoc rate, eher each  soenrasien                 years but adjusted for, ditfee tt lengohe of prImAry edccarion  for
of comar replaces itself enactly.  The sitatonary pnpul-tion sloe rae                      countriesevith anctersal edocatire setollesno masy noceed ilDO Forceci
eftisated or the bhsis of rho projeco.d characnerisnine of the  Fpoulation                 ailne some pupile are beloo or chore the official echool age.
Do the year 2005, end the rate of declIne of fertility rcte to reFlace-                  terordary scbool - total, male sod female - Compcted cc chore; seeredery
om DotleD,l                                                                                educateior requires at least four pears of aFFroved orimany ieetrucaioe;
Yean stati-onrry 1oPlalo- ic reached - Tho year when startioncry poFlation                  provides general, tocational, or teenier staining instructions foe pnpi-
sloe has heenreacbed.                                                                      msally of 12 to 17 years of age; corre.oF. dence courses are generally
Porulactro cetseiny                                                                            exclcded.
For sq. A   - rid-year popclatiot pro  eqncre kiloreter (100 h-onares) of                  loctiomal enrollcert (percent of esecodary) - Vocational iretitotlres
'otel area; 1960, 1970 Icd 1970 daso.                                                      irclcde  -s1hnical, tndctrial, or other pesgeamevhith operate I  id- peod-
oer cm. As. agricultcral land - C-oput-d as above for agliculnurrl land                      ondly or cc  departments of secordary ntsttt         hpIond
Only; 1960, 197G and 1976 data.                                                          FpIl-tearher oraio - Primsry, and secondary - Total stndeesc eneriled ie
Population hoe itroeture (pemoant) - Childreo (0-14 yea-s), norokig-age (15-                   primaty cod secondary levels ditided by n-ober 1 of teedber- toib t
64 years), and retired (5             . yetr and over) as  ero. enraPsY of mid-year pops-    coroesponding level.
letior; 1060, 1970, and 1079 datac                                                         Adult linsesrycvane (torrent) - Literate adults (sble to read med wtine)
Porolatien brooch Pate (porernt - total - Aneual grovtb ratea of total mid-                   asaFpercentage of total adult popslation oged 15 years and otve.
Smar poFnlations foe 1950-60, 196D-7D, sod 1970-79.
Populacion Grotth Rane (rerreot) - urban - Aonnul grcowth rates of urhan popo-           CDNOSUNPTIDN
Dreirre for 1950-60, 1960-70, end 1970-79.                                               Passengar Cars (per ohonscod cooslatior) - Fasasenger rate comprise Ronoe
Crude Birth Rate (por ihoneced) - Aonoual Dive births per thonusand of mid-year              nets seating lass t6cr eight .5050cc; ecludes ambulances, heesrsssand
populatio;n 1960,  1970, :ad 1970 daa.- niltory vehiclo.
CeaSde Death ions  (rerthousand) - Arnued  doaths per thousando of mid-pear                hadio Receivers Der thousand porulation) - All toype  of receivers Don radio
popolerio;i 1960, 1970, end 1979 data6                                                     hrnadnee tso gsene7l puhlic per thousend of popolatior; exclades en-
Irons cerrodoonios Rate -Average comber of doughterscaeemaonvill hoar to                     licensed receivers ir counotries and so years ehen regisiretire of nadir
her natmal reproducetie period if she experiences present ago-spec ifi go to-              sets seaIsi  effecte; data for recent peers map rot be remparahle oboCe
_tlity  raes;usnally fine-year averages endirg in 1960, 1970, cod 1979.                    mast  ontries abolished licensing.
Family FloreI 7a - Acceptors Arennl (obossods) - ADnoal nuhmer of a dceprors               TO Deceivers Doer thousard population) - TV rereivers for broadcast to
of htrth-control devices unden easpires of rnntonal family planning peegron.               general pnhlic per thousard pFoplcnirn; excludes unlirensed TY raeceirers
Family Flanesu -DUeors (perrent of married women) - Ferccnage of married                     in countries aed in yearn ohen registration of Ti sets ccc in effecst
505550 of cbild-hearieg ego (15-44 years) 7h nb sae birth-control detires to             leosrarer Cirrulation Doer thousand populacion) - Shows oh e aoefrsge nit-
all married romeo Dr same ego grnup.                                                       ruletine of "dully general intnerest nevsosaper", defined asmaperiodical
puhbliction devoted pr"tmanily to rWoInding general ses.          Doreenidred
DOOle AD hTTR12i0N                                                                             to be  daily  if in appears at least foor timeca esl
Dndex of Food Frodantire rer Capita 71969-71-110) - Ionse of per capita annnal             Ciore hnnual Anterdance rer Capita rer teon -Bessd en the onuher of
Froductien of all food coeso.ditiloo   Froduction excludes seed cod feed and               tickess arid during the year, including adndssions so dri'oe-ino ciremas
is orneclendor year hoses.  loesodleles rover polmary goods (e.g. sogarocee                cod mo bile cenits.
instead oD mcgee) which are edible and corsair rnurients (e.g. coffee cod
tea are ecluded).  Aggregate prodtctioh of each contry to hased o                      1ABOR FRCE
national anerago prodocer price origins; 1961-65, 1971, end 1979 dna.1                   Totl  abhor Force ..heasoodo) - Dconomically active persons, icladtng
Deh sioaol   fcaoIs(ecr  frncrmrc      eprd  omemdfne   o Iifmpiped ha  eald ingy hocoInceg* idees,et.
enerty  e     _oivtleon  of net food stpp-iro av   unconeiry For nudfir                  covr ing p pu;ation Of all egme.  D eDiiono in ivec studentrle are
per day.  Atailable sapplies nessFrlee desuescir production, imports Deco                non coeperabin; 1960, 1970 end 1979 dote.
exporrs, sod ohanges in stok.  ter supplies seclude so Tl         i food, seeds,       Fe'tal  (rerce ft) - Fedtle labor forte as percentage of total labhr force
qoaYnIt..i.ie  usd  n  odA roesig,ad  ose             OsdnfOnto.d h1qa7re                    - ..o r Itloerbe1t)h- labo  fotei. trin,  oesr, grlg  n
maria te  noimte nod hy FaDS hod or physirlcgtoal nods for normal anti-                 fichieg es pecrnettge of total laborf  tg fore;       y 1960,D 190ad17   doa
viry tnd health considering e.viro"m Irtal teeporature, hody  Welgh s, age             D.dusny (Pencert) - Labor dante in mining, cnstructioe, sorefarturing
end see distrihotiee of population. and allowing 1O Feteret for noste at                 anod eleonniiniy, enter cod gas as percentage oD toteD  lahor forte; 1960,
household tenel; 1961-65, 1970. cod DODD dana.                                           1970 and 1979 data.
Per caPir_ sanely of orerele Dances per day) - Frontei cootent of per rapine             Farticipation RtOe (norcenr) - total, male, nd female - Fartcinpactio  or
ret supply of dfod con day.  ten suply of  food is defined as shove.  P-                 acitiny rates are computed is turl, tale, and femiale labor torts as
Onirtnemets for all nountrias estahitabed by *SDA Frotide for otnimno                    peroconegen of total, mole and femasle FoFulatiot of all ages nespsrtsrnly;
allowance of 60 greos of utotl proteis per day end 20 cranes ef atneql and               1960, 1970, and 1079 data.  These are booed or DID's participation rates
pulse protein, of which 10 garts should he animal protein.  Theosestand-                 reflecting age-see structure of the populstion, and loeg time trend.  A
cede are loner than those of 71 grams of tonal protein and 23 gross of                   lest estilmates are from tnational sourncs
animasl proteir oe an overage for the world, proFused by DAO in the Third              fcono=ic Dependency Patio - Patio of populstion coder 15 and 65 cod over
acorid Food Survey; 1961-65, 1970 cod 1977 data,                                         no  the total lahor forte.
Per osniro protein seoply free coimal cod pul so - Frotein supply of food de-
rived feem colmals and pulses in grams Fer day; 1961-65, 1)70 and 1977 dana,         INCDMTf pISTorDrtTIOr
Child (sass 1-4) Mortality Pate (ret thousand) -   rneult deaths For thoutand D
age group i-A  pears, ccochildren Do Ohio age group; for mrast developingcroon-          Pe  Fennt t. oPrichete 20 t proton, i poreth 20d pkrrnst  co  peemiv   by  prrcent
tries data derived from life tahles; 1960, 1970 cod 1079 data,o  households. t                                    pret poet            pecn,td  ors 4   ecn
111DB                                                                             FOOnOTy TAbOO OtI_yIPS
11Dm inpenntryc an linth (years7 - Average ecohet of years of life retnainig             POEThe fTARwiGE  eRUStiae   r   eyapoO             esrso   oet   ees
ci birth; 1960, 1970 and 1970 data.                                                          d  houldi  eIsti IrFted r                         ht .osscdenabenactre.
Infaon tfesaiorty Pane (roer theaserd) - Annual deatho of infents code  or  5re             taniad shouldoeiterprtente with levsel0$rabet caputio-n         htan  oo
ot 0gm pet thonsand lire births.                                    Atbeea                  seloted Aboneute isome t"noel isve than  poer inptal he- urban   minimrual-
hOOesD toReDON Water Pbeebien of cerc.ation)- ntotal crhtn, and tural - N                                          dAbieclut  luis thatitol to-vfood requirecnnh   i  000i=
bee of Fpeope (total, urhan,  od rural(  wib reaoable acese to  safe                          triall                di t  I       ftin-f                         idt
esser  supply (includes  necared ssrfareeciero or untreated hut unonnrtaoited               affordblea
eeoersuch as that from   rteterid horehoirs, springs, cod canitary cells) anto-tal  Relative poverty isooma  Level is  orehr  caverag  prb     ralF                     -
of their respectire populations.  InanurbanareaapuL                            peural       ma relat e poverty ib ntr dy.    ishane-thidrdoi edfrag d er  ouite
fountaie or starapoot loatoed non mare thatn 2DD meters frooca house soy he                 levepol nith  edoftnen  for  igb Urbcotno levelg is derhve   artDteas. ra
cotnidered as being vitbin reaon.able a          Press of that house.  In rurdav_1 letlmate Fultient eow  higelr Povetyo Diveng lee (rban                       -rea
reasonahle access  eculd imply thor rho boceetife or neebere of the houehold                tatedr    -       t Fopu o Aolute  (orhtd  rortl ebe  arent "bcuiba
do non hove no spend a dioprop-nd-onate part of the day to fetchig the                      a r
family' aeaten needs.n
Access cc fecretc llocosal (rercent of eocuaDcnicnu-toal,. bn  and  ua  -
lymber of pAople btetl. urban,  and rural) sorved hy encrett disposal as
pencentages of their respective populatiena. Iroreta disposal may inclede
the collecnior end disposal, =aith or elrbcur treanment, of bu=ancexererafromondtialtecvse
end wca-sater hy  atr-rre sste   or the use of pit privies end sine- ic osto    ands codial FDajeta    Department
bar installatioroa.                                                                                                        coot   nlst  n   rJciosDprEo
I" Y.q.iy 1                                              d f I          _W    y       :A- i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta  DD
Forulation per Physician - Population divided by nueber of practicing physi-                                                                    Mty 1981
clone qaliDied from a medital ehRool at N  unversity level.
Proplatiornpet Nursine FPOrson - Population divided hp numhen of practicing
ma9le and female grad nste nurses, prectical ocrone, cod asses tart nurses.



- 28 -                                                   Annex I
Population:  15.865 million (1980)                                                                                     Page 4 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  US$420 (1980)
KENYA - ECO{MaC INDICATE
1980
Indicator                               Annmt                             Anmual Growth Rate (%)
(million tS$ at        Actual/a                            Projected/a
current prices)  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980      1981   1982   1986   1991   1995
National Accomts
Gross dcaestic product at m.p.        5986.0          2.1    9.5    7.4    4.2    2.4        3.1    3.3    4.5    5.5    5.5
Agriculture                          1463.8         1.9   10.0    4.2   -1.0   -1.2        2.0    3.2    3.7    4.0    4.0
Industry                             865.3         -0.4   13.1   10.9    6.8    3.8        4.0    4.0    5.0    7.0    7.0
Services                             1934.9         4.1    5.8    7.0    7.5    4.7        4.0    4.1    4.9    5.6    5.6
Consinption                             5962.4         -3.5    7.9   15.3    6.6    2.3        7.1   -0.5    3.6    4.3    4.3
Gross Investnent                         1882.0        12.0   35.9   23.9  -24.8   17.3   -14.8    2.0    4.6    5.5    5.5
Exports of GNFS                          1980.5         6.3    5.6   -4.3   -8.3    5.2   -13.7    4.6    4.8    6.5    6.5
Imports of GNFS                         2832.8         -2.7   18.3   26.6  -19.8    8.9    -12.8   -6.4    2.3    3.1    3.1
Gross National Savings                   870.4         17.0   64.6  -27.4  -27.1   64.4   -13.6   29.6    8.0    9.4    9.7
Prices
GEP deflator/b                         100.0         71.2   83.6   85.7   91.9  100.0    108.0  115.6  145.9  195.2  246.5
Echange rate (KSh./GS$)               7.4202       8.3671 8.2766 7.7294 7.4753 7.4202    9.091  9.091  9.091  9.091  9.091
Share of GEP at market prices (%)          Average Amnual Growth Rate (%)/a
(at current prices)/c
Ac-tual                Projected
1974   1979   198D   1986   1991   1995       1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
Gross danestic product at m.p.       108.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          4.7      4.2       5.2      5.5
Agriculture/d                       35.4   34.3   32.5   31.0   29.2   27.6          4.4       3.5      3.9      4.0
Industry/d                          20.7   26.1   21.8   22.4   23.7   25.1          6.1      4.6       6.5      7.0
services/F                          43.9   39.6   45.7   46.7   47.1   47.3           4.9      4.6      5.3      5.6
Consunption                           81.5   84.2   85.3   81.9   77.6   74.3           5.6      2.7      4.0      4.3
Gross Investient                      25.8   22.7   26.9   22.9   23.0   23.0         -1.5       5.0      5.3      5.5
Exports GNFS                          33.7   25.5   28.3   24.5   25.7   26.7         -1.2       4.7      6.2      6.5
Imports GiFS                          40.9   32.4   40.5   29.3   26.4   24.0         -2.0      1.3      3.0       3.1
Gross national savings                14.5   13.0   12.1   15.7   19.0   22.4          0.6      12.2      9.2      9.7
As % of GIl
PUIIIC FINANCE                           1974  1979  1980
Current revenues                        16.0  24.7  24.8
Current expenditures                    14.3  22.5  23.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)              1.8   2.2   1.8
Capital expenditure                     6.1   9.7  10.1
Foreign financing                       2.0   4.2   5.4
alHER INMICA1t                          1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
GNP growth rate (%)                    4.9       4.1      5.1      5.6
G2P per capita growth rate (%)         1.0      0.2       1.3      1.9
Energy corsLnption growth rate (%)     4.9       2.5      3.1      3.3
ICXR                                   7.8      5.4       4.5      4.2
Marginal savings rate                  .268    .333      .322     .375
Import elasticity                     -0.4      0.3       0.6      0.6
/a Growth rates for historical years are based in constant 1976 prices; projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/i; KSh. deflator based in 1976 prices.
/W Projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/d Share of GDP at factor cost.
April 7, 1982
EA1DA



Population: 15.865 million (1980)                              - 29 -                                                 Anrex I
GNP Per Capita: bS$420 (1980)                                                                                        Page 5 of 6
mm - ED1RL 1EADE
Amqount                                    Anmual Growth Rate (%)/a
Indicator                        (million US$ at                     Actual                                 Projected
current prices)
1980               1976   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1991
ElRNL TRAIE
Merchandise exports                  1247.2               6.4    4.0   -7.7   -2.1    3.2   -13.2    4.6    4.6    4.8    4.8    4.8    6.4
Primary/b                           963.4               12.4    9.0   -3.7    4.8   -7.3   -18.3    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.9    4.9    6.2
Manafactures/c                      283.8               0.4   -5.4  -18.6   -3.1   29.6        3.9    4.0    4.0    4.7    4.7    4.7    6.8
Merchandise imports                  2612.2              -3.8   22.0   16.4  -18.3   14.7   -11.4   -6.4    3.1    2.5    2.3    2.3    3.0
Food/d                              111.2                5.3    3.0   70.0  -19.2   57.6   -23.0   -9.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    0.0
Petroleum/e                         778.6              -8.3    4.0    2.9    0.9   16.7    -9.1   -5.2    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    3.0
Machinery and equipment/f           706.4             -16.7   36.0   29.4  -28.4   19.0    -9.5   -2.9    5.5    3.4    3.4    3.4    4.0
Others                             1016.0                ..      ..      ..     ..      ..   -13.1   -9.6    1.8    1.8    1.2    1.0    2.5
PRICES/
Export price index                                      73.2  102.8   81.2   83.7  100.0    93.2   98.5  106.4  114.8  124.0  132.7  186.1
Inport price index                                     65.2   69.6   68.7   76.8  100.0    99.1  104.3  115.1  127.0  140.0  150.5  216.7
Terms of trade index                                   112.3  147.8  118.2  108.9  100.0    94.1   94.5   92.4   90.4   88.6   88.2   85.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)         Average Annmal Increase (%)/a
(at constant 1980 prices)
1974  1979  1981  1986  1991  1995         1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
Exports
Primary                                 71.0  83.0  72.9  73.1  73.1  72.6             2.1      4.8      6.2      6.3
Manufactures/h                          29.0  17.0  27.1  26.9  26.9  27.4          -11.3       4.4      6.3      7.0
imports
Food                                     6.6   5.3   3.7   3.4   2.9   2.1           -10.4      -0.3       -       -
Petroleum                               21.2  23.7  30.6  31.1  31.2  38.9           -2.8        1.5      3.0    3.0
Mahinery and equipment                   22.8  35.5  27.6  30.2  31.5  25.6            1.7       2.9      3.9    3.9
Others                                  49.4  35.5  38.1  35.3  34.3  33.4             ..       -0.1      2.4    2.6
/a Historical growth rates are based in 1976 prices; projected growth rates in 1980 prices
Ib  Based on weighted quantum indices (base year - 1976) of food, live aainals, and crude materials
/R Excludes petroleum products. Value of manufactured exports are deflated by international inflation index to arrive at constant price
series.
/d Based m quantun index (base year - 1976) for SIMC 0.
/e Based on quantim index (base year - 1976) for SrIT 3.
/f Based on quantun index (base year - 1976) for SllC 7.
/i Inices for historical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based in 1980.
Excludes petrolem products.
April 7, 1982
EAIDA



-  0-                                                   Amnex I
Population:  15.865 million (1980)                                                                                      Page 6 of 6
GNP per capita: US$420 (1980)
KENYA - BANIE OF PAlMENIS, IEEL  CAPITAL AND DEPT
(million US$ at current prices)
Actual                                    Projected
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980        1981    192    1986    1991    1995
BA1NE OF PAYMENS
Exports of goods and services           1184.6  1614.9  1581.0  1629.6  2032.8    1651.7  1821.5  2933.0  5447.0  9033.5
of which: 14erchand.ise f.o.b.        743.9  L130.9   955.8  1017.5  1242.5    1008.3  1114.7  1809.3  3423.4  5758.4
Imports of giods and services           1300.3  1653.9  2332.6  2206.8  3069.4    2639.9  2650.1  4221.9  7091.7  10547.5
of wdich: Merchandise c.i.f.          975.0  1279.0  1875.7  1779.2  2632.8    2294.4  2260.8  3610.0  6008.9  9086.3
Net transfers                            32.3    66.5    91.1   100.1   139.6        153.6   168.9   247.3   398.3   583.1
Current Account Balance                  -83.4    27.5  -60.6  -477.0  -897.0    -834.6  -659.7  -1041.6  -1246.5  -930.8
Private direct Investment                37.7    54.5    32.1    66.4    61.2         66.4    73.1   107.0   172.3   252.3
M&LT loans (net)                         111.9   145.6   410.1   412.5   515.3       460.2   552.6   866.3  1066.9   654.1
Official                                 ..       ..       ..      ..       ..    (304.4) (546.4) (401.3) (568.1) (829.4)
Private                                  ..       ..       ..      ..       ..    (155.7)   (6.2) (464.9) (498.9) (-175.3)
Other Capital                            19.1    44.7    17.6   187.0   125.9        108.0    99.0   118.1    93.8   147.3
Change in reserves                      -85.3  -272.3   200.8  -188.9   194.6        200.0   -65.0   -49.7   -86.6  -122.9
International Reserves                  425.9   698.2   497.4   686.3   491.7        291.7   356.7   546.4   905.2  1337.1
Reserves as months imports                4.3      5.2     3.8      5.1     2.9        1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5
IERAL  CAPITAL AND EEBT
Cross Disbursements                     180.9   231.6   285.1   376.8   420.8        566.0   689.5  1151.6  1738.4  1637.3
Official grants/a                         ..      ..       ..      .        ..        ..       ..
Concessional loans                     63.3    64.7   104.5   149.9   179.6        215.8   313.5   329.3   509.6   675.9
Dr4C                                 46.1    33.7    54.0    94.0    81.2        133.0   127.0   158.6   223.2   292.5
OP:                                   -        -       -        -       -         19.5    50.3    37.6    52.7    69.1
IDA                                  13.6    17.7    16.3    21.5    71.6         30.5    90.8    75.7   140.9   192.6
Other                                 3.6    13.3    34.2    34.4    26.8         32.8    45.4    57.5    92.8   121.6
Non-concessional loans                117.6   166.8   180.6   226.8   241.2        350.2   376.0   822.3  1228.8   961.4
Offical export credits               18.8    11.0    17.6       8.5    10.1       26.5    55.5    75.2   105.4   138.2
IBD                                  66.7    34.7    42.3    36.7    40.0         77.2   197.2   112.3   214.4   294.8
Other official                        2.1    11.5      7.6      4.8    21.0       11.1    10.1      1.9      -       -
Private                              30.0   109.6   113.1   176.8   170.0        235.4   113.2   633.0   909.0   528.5
External Debt
Debt outstanding aid disbursed        700.8   917.2  1083.7  1433.2  1743.8    2336.3/b 2888.9/b 5817.3/b1O873.3/bL4359.5/b
Official                            605.2   709.6   792.8   977.6  1179.6    1593.3  2139.7  4117.2  6651.1  9506.3
Private                              95.6   207.6   290.9   455.6   564.2        743.0   749.2  1700.1  4222.1  4853.2
Undlsbursed debt                      629.1   780.7  1056.6  1252.8  1304.5    1383.7  1323.0  1584.2  2518.1  3319.7
Debt Service/a
Total service payments                 65.3    74.6   121.6   120.2   183.0        201.8   271.2   531.3  1193.7  1652.1
Interest                             31.8    39.6    52.4    70.6   104.5         96.0   134.3   245.9   522.3   668.9
Payments as % of exports                5.7      4.8     7.9      7.6     9.2       12.2    14.9    18.1    21.9    18.3
Averge interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                                4.5      4.0     4.0      3.8     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Private                                 7.7      7.7     7.7    12.0      8.0        9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                               26.0    30.0    28.0    32.0    32.0         28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
Private                                  9.5    11.9    13.0    11.9       5.9      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years                                  8.0
Interest structure of debt ouatstading
Interest due within first year                                100.0
/a Official grants are included In transfers In the balance of payments airrent account. Transfers are projected to grow at an
annual rate of 10%.
/b Includes Kenya's notional share of 45% of EAC debt.
April 7, 1982



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of December 31, 1981
US$ Million
Loan or                                                             Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                             Bankl   TW   IDA1  Undisbursed
Sixteen (16) Loans and Seventeen (18) Credits
Fully Disbursed                                     266.68        183.72
477        1974    Kenya       Livestock                                        17.50      9.39
537       1975    Kenya        Group Farm Rehabilitation                         7.50      3.67
1105        1975    Kenya       Sites and Services                  8.00                    3.60
1167        1976    Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.00                       0.31
1184        1976    Kenya       Third Education                    10.00                    8.43
( 650       (1977   (Kenya      (Integrated Agric. Development                    10.00   ( 3.72
(1303-T    (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development            10.00            (10.00
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00              9.68
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.00                    4.00
1389        1977    Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.00                    5.49
( 692       (1977   (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                                20.00    (1.35
(1390-T    (1977   (Kenya       (Third Agriculture                         5.00             (5.00
1438        1977    IDB -       Third Industrial Dev. Bank         20.00                    6.46
( 722       (1977   (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement                        6.00   (  .07
(1449       (1977   (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.00                  (34.00
750       1978    Kenya        Small Scale Industry                             10.00      8.63
1520        1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                   19.64
( 791       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                                     25.00   (22.01
(1550       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                       25.00                  (25.00
797       1978    Kenya        Fourth Education                                 23.00    20.23
1636        1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                   67.83
1637       1979    Kenya        Rural Water Supply                 20.00                   19.89
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                   13.00    12.41
1680       1979    Kenya        Telecommunications                 20.00                   14.10
1684        1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.00                   85.90
914        1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00    26.18
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                    46.00    44.90
962       1980    Kenya        Baringo Pilot                                     6.50      5.95
1799        1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002                     16.44
1817        1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                   28.40
1045        1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                  4.50      4.50
1051       1980    Kenya        Fisheries                                        10.00    10.00
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education4                                 35.90    35.90
1976        1981    Kenya       Railway                            58.00                   58.00
(1143       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture3 4                             9.40      9.40
(1995       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture3                25.00                   25.00
2065        1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    4.00
Total                            816.68 32.00 455.02   669.48
of which has been repaid         46.15   -       2.58
Total now outstanding            770.53 32.00 452.44
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               770.53 32.00 452.44
TOTAL undisbursed                            426.49 24.68 218.31   669.48
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of December 31, 1981
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Bank'    Undisbursed
…    US$ million-----
Six loans fully disbursed                            135.80
638-EA    1969    EAHC       Second Harbours         35.00         0.52
865-EA    1972    EAHC       Third Harbours          26.50         0.35
914-EA    1972    EAPTC      Third Telecom.          32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB       Second Dev. Finance   15.00           3.26
Total                                             244.80        4.41
of which has been repaid                          68.89
Total now outstanding                             175.91
Amount sold                            24.36
of which has been repaid              24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank1                           175.91
Total undisbursed                                   4.42        4.41
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. Status of Projects in Execution'
(As of September 30, 1981)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.52 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982J
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number of
policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. Agreement was also reached
between the Government and the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) with
the Association that since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized even with the proposed new closing date, the Government would
request a cancellation of US$4.0 million and a reallocation between
categories in Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement, once the conditions were
met. This has now been done.
Credit No. 537-KE4 - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. The progress of rehabilitation
of existing project farms is encountering a variety of legal, social,
political and financial problems. Despite project efforts to recruit
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on
December 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized.
3/ The new closing date will be effective once the countersigned letter from
AFC is received.
4/ Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981,
retroactive to November 30, 1980, at Government request.



- 34 -                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
qualified farm managers, most of the farms continue to suffer from inadequate
financial and operational management. The majority of project farm group
owners would like to subdivide, but are constrained by large debts for common
assets and by the absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines on
legal subdivision of group farms. Although rehabilitation of a few farms,
particularly coffee estates, seems to be proceeding satisfactorily, the Bank
and the Government are jointly reviewing the project objectives in light of
difficulties encountered, and the Government has undertaken a study of the
financial impact of various alternative solutions to the financial problems
of group farms and will review the implications of sub-division for the
regions concerned. In the interim, recruitment of additional farms has
stopped, and the cancellation of the total loan amount of US$7.5 million, at
Government's request, has been effected.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
US$9.9 million- Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry
Planatation Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's long-term
afforestation program target of 130,000 ha. of sawlog and 24,000 ha. of
pulpwood plantations by 1980. The credit and the loan are now fully
disbursed. A Completion Report is under preparation. At completion, the
plantation program was 35% below target due to a variety of reasons,
including bad weather conditions as well as poor and deteriorating
management. The building and labor housing programs were considerably behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1303-T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
The reorientation of the project towards assisting large numbers of
subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to a
number of difficulties. Late release of credit funds has led to delayed
application of farm inputs, and expected yield increases were therefore not
achieved. Measures are now being taken to ensure availability of credit
funds at the appropriate time. The overall balance between numbers of
borrowers and infrastructural support--staff, storage and transport--at
cooperative union level has been improving, and greater efforts have been
made to improve the input supply and marketing systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan of
April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date: March
31, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
Yields from outgrowers' cane have been projected somewhat higher as compared
5/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under the loan
were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 35 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
with 1980 yields; however, actual 1981 production may well fall short of
management expectations if the amount and distribution of rainfall are not
favorable. All civil works are virtually completed, work on minor roads is
improving and major road works are proceeding satisfactorily. Certain
weaknesses in project management, particularly cane handling and transport,
have become apparent, and consultants are being employed to rectify this
problem. Although statutory sugar prices were changed in April 1981 by about
10%, SONY (the Project entity) is experiencing serious financial
difficulties. KSA and SONY will review the situation to ascertain what
financial assistance will be required from Government and if the Bank's legal
requirements have been satisfied.
Loan No. 1390-T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$5.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The closing date of the Project has been postponed one year to
compensate for initial disbursement problems related to budgetary cutbacks
and cumbersome administration of reimbursement requests and to reallocate
underutilized credit funds for medium-scale farmers and livestock holders
to the small-scale farmer category, where AFC commitments have exceeded
appraisal estimates. The balance of funds for onlending, about $3.2 million,
is expected to be fully drawn down by AFC by end 1981. The new, computerized
accounts system is now operational, and is being programmed to provide
improved arrears reporting, budgeting and financial control.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates that
the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate is
about twice the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope for
reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances, and is currently
reviewing its budget and seeking additional external assistance. No
supplementary IDA financing is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project, and has now confirmed its intention formally to the Bank.
Developments in these project areas are in suspense since the companies have
not given evidence that they have a viable financing plan and since the
Government has not provided detailed plans for the complementary field and
infrastructural development. Rehabilitation of the third factory has been
held up by delays in the recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs
are expected. Cane supply is expected to drop unless cane prices are



-36 -                           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
significantly increased.  In spite of the economic difficulties facing the
sugar production sector, investments in new factories are being projected.  A
study to review sugar marketing prospects is due to start soon, and
appropriate changes in project design will be discussed immediately
thereafter.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in
developing effective credit programs adapted to the special circumstances of
the traditional Masai farmers of the district. Land adjudication, initially
an obstacle to medium-term lending by AFC, is proceeding relatively well, the
construction of a central Farmers' Training Center is finished, and project
staffing is nearly complete; however, project coordination and supervision of
extension services has been weak due to a change in the District Agricultural
Office (DAO) and the continued lack of an Assistant DAO. Disbursements for
seasonal and medium-term loans are likely to proceed more slowly than
expected, because of the need for intensive extension work and resolution of
disputes on land issues and credit terms. The Government has requested the
reallocation of some credit funds to other areas, including improvement of
critical access roads, and this proposal is under review.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Principal project activities started slowly due to the lower than
estimated 1980/81 Government budgetary allocations, the first since the
Credit Agreement was signed, to finance SCIP lending operations for coffee
factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements. However, most
project personnel are in post and it is expected that the Project will be
fully staffed shortly. Training has made good progress, but training
programs need to be expanded and accelerated. Financial difficulties are
expected to continue to prevail in the near future, and whether Project
infrastructure, equipment and personnel will be utilized in an optimal
fashion will depend on future Government funding of the Project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date: October 31, 1984
Project activities are proceeding well given the remoteness of the
project area and the pilot nature of the project.. The internationally-
recruited technical staff and the local agricultural and livestock extension
staff are all in place. Due to the 1980/81 Government budget constraints,
allocations for the project were only a third of the amount requested and
approved in project Work Plans. This shortfall has had a particular impact
on construction of project housing, which is sorely inadequate, and the
budget for project field services, which consequently remain limited.
Despite these problems, the project team has launched a number of experiments
in dry-land and irrigated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting,
and range management. Project demonstrations have attracted local interest,
and participation of area residents in project activities is increasing.



-37 -                           ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
IADP II faces many of the same problems as IADP I, mainly high drop
out rates of project recruited farmers and low credit repayment rates. These
problems are partly related to the inefficiencies of the farm input delivery
system, the financial and managerial weaknesses of cooperative inter-
mediaries, and inadequate marketing arrangements for smallholder production.
Supervision of the project has emphasized streamlining of the credit and
agricultural input delivery system and greater technical assistance to
cooperatives and the strengthening of the Ministry of Cooperative
Development's extension and audit services. IADP II provides significantly
more support than IADP I for infrastructure, including rural access roads,
rural water supplies, small-scale irrigation, and resource/soil conserva-
tion. Most infrastructure components are in the planning stage with
construction to start in 1981/82. General delays in project implementation
are expected due to severe Government budgetary constraints, which have
resulted in cuts in the Annual Work Plan programs.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project start-up activities are proceeding satisfactorily. The
Project Manager and key Area Managers have been appointed. An early problem
regarding a potential project overlap with a proposed Kenyan/Nordic
cooperative fisheries project was resolved in May 1981 by the Nordics
withdrawing from the project. A subsidiary financing agreement between the
Government and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya for the cooperative credit
program is being finalized. Recruitment of technical asistance for the fish
farming center and boat building components is scheduled to be completed by
December 1981.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:  March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 3-1/2 years behind
schedule. Government is taking measures to counter cost overruns and
difficulties in making available their financial contributions by, inter
alia, phasing activities in the project implementation period. The rate of
progress towards achievement of educational objectives is linked to the rate
of progress of physical implementation of the project. Minimal progress in
preparation of a new and appropriate curriculum has been made by the Kenya
Institute of Education, who has a leading role in improvement of primary
education. Provisions under the Fifth Education Project for strengthening
the Project Unit will likely benefit achievements by a more efficient
management of implementation activities.



- 38 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Physical implementaton of the project is about 22 months behind
schedule (about 17% of completion). Revised total project cost increased to
about KShs 329 million representing approximately 28% cost overrun in civil
works in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance program as well
as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.06 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
This Credit became effective on July 30, 1981.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project: US$35.0
million Loan of October 5, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Full scale operational capacity is now at least 30 months behind
schedule. Although there is a substantial cost overrun, this is not seen as
a major problem since Government is fully committed to earliest project
completion and is providing the additional funds, 80% local currency, as
needed. Regarding key personnel vancancies requiring the Ministry of Water
Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully aware of this situation and,
while progress is slow, remedial action is being taken. The Water
Engineering Department of the MWD was able to start small scale operations,
by means of temporary arrangements, in December 1980 and helped estimate
substantially Mombasa's water shortage during the 1980 year end dry season,
and the project was formally commissioned in April 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed by two years to June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply
contracts financed by other donors and the construction contracts being
financed by the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to
date have been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated
increase of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. Water supply
6/  IDA Credit US$40 Million equivalent SDR 31.4 million at time of
negotiatons.



- 39 -                          ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the
Borrower has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to
external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The original project included 33 schemes but since two schemes are
proposed to be joined together and three schemes are being constructed under
other programs, only 29 schemes remain. The implementation is about 18
months behind schedule due to late effectiveness and slow start by the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD) in preparing studies for the schemes.
The training program is progressing satisfactorily; bids for MWD vehicles and
construction equipment are being evaluated; MWD's reorganization has been
generally implemented although some improvements are still to be completed.
Water tariffs were changed in April 1981, on Presidential order and MWD will
submit to the Bank computations showing the impact on revenues and the
covering of O&M costs.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) was reviewed in
depth by all donors and discussed with Government during the Annual Review
Meeting held in October 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule
due to administration and procurement problems which delayed establishment of
construction units. All eight Bank-financed construciton units are fully
equipped, and are now operational, and satisfactorily staffed since these
problems were resolved in the beginning of 1978. By September 15, 1980, 646
km of access roads had been constructed, of which only 135 km were gravelled
due to the above-mentioned delays and later to the labor shortage. The
decline of annual output and productivity of construction units, also due to
a shortage of labor, was increased from 30 km per annum to 33 km per annum
primarily because the Government granted a daily minimum wage increase that
was proposed by MOTC. The labor supply has been adequate since June 1980,
following the May wage increase.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of funds has caused a
reduction in the highway work program. While this has not yet affected the
project appreciably, the continuation of this trend in FY82 could touch
projects included in the Sector Loan. The two contracts for construction of
Uplands-Limmuru (11 km) and Nairasha-Nakuru (56 km) were recently signed and
mobilization is satisfactory. The contracts for strengthening the Mau
Summit-Kismu road (136 km) is being retendered while the Nakuru-Timboroa road



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
(81 km) tender documents are completed. The remaining two subprojects, the
Nairobi-Thika and Longonot-Uplands roads, are under design. The regravelling
of gravel roads projections were achieved during the past two years
(1979-80). Resealing of paved roads is behind schedule with only 18% of the
appraisal target accomplished due to shortage of bitumen and poor
organization. Bitumen is now being imported and four resealing units out of
the six planned are operational. The resealing operation is now
progressing. The funds allocated for road maintenance are about 15% below
appraisal estimates but with better organization and utilization of existing
resources, the targets could be achieved.
Loan 1976-KE - Railways Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on September :3, 1981, following the
receipt of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya
Railway.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Engineering Loan
(S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under the loan has been
satisfactory. Drilling is proceeding on schedule; fabrication of the new
drill rig and accessories has ben completed, and erection of the rig at the
site is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Miscellaneous
supplies and equipment have been purchased under International Shopping
procedures. The project is expected to be completed ahead of schedule and
within the estimated cost.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Seventeen sub-projects have been approved under this Loan. As at
February 28, 1981, US$20.0 million has been fully committed and as at
September 30, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) is making efforts to improve its
slow implementation rate and high arrears of clients. The Association is
seeking Government assistance in correcting two problems, noted previously,
caused by the transfer in March 1980 of a loan portfolio from another DFC
(ICDC): (i) that KIE complete the reconciliation of the individual subloan
amounts stated in the transfer agreement with available documentation and
receive compensation for the doubtful debts in the portfolio; and (ii)



-41 -                          ANNEX II
Psge 11 of 15
a proposal to increase KIE's paid-in share capital to maintain the
debt/equity ratio below 3, the ceilig (3:1) of the IDA Project Agreement. As
of September 30, 1981, US$3.9 million was committed for 73 subloans and some
technical assistance, to 57 subprojects, but only US$1.2 million had been
disbursed. About half of the commitments were for eight subprojects with the
remainder allocated to smaller free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ten subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date. As at
September 30, 1980, US$14.9 million had been committed and US$ 930,000 had
been disbursed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on October 15, 1980.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Bid awards for all
Bank-financed goods have been completed and contracts signed. Initial delays
in procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion. Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has
completed the installation of a total of 960 lines of extension equipment in
eight manual exchanges using its own funds. The balance of a total of 570
lines in four exchanges is expected to be in service in 1981. KPTC has now
completed design of cable networks and buildings.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there
are mounting delays in implementation causing a slippage of two years due
primarily to construction delays. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory
housing. Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete
and construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected
to begin soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is
now operational, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule.
One health center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to



- 42 -                          ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
disburse against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not
approved by the Bank. The design of the other health center should be
submitted for approval soon. Tenders have been invited for all other
community facilities. Technical assistance components are completed or
scheduled for completion in conjunction with the project. Project costs for
the first phase remain close to appraisal estimates but are expected to
exceed original estimates for the remaining components because of delays
incurred. The credit is fully disbursed and disbursements under the loan
have started. Although loan disbursements are expected to increase rapidly
now that the construction activities are progressing satisfactorily, the
Closing Date has been postponed one year.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for ]Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project is
slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30,11982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The Tourism Pricing Study
and the Very Large Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations
contained in these two studies are under review by the Government. The
anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness
of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments to the Wildlife
(Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the requirements of the
supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-poaching operations
have been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
are now in the final stages of processing.



- 43 -                         ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East African
Community.7
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 26, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar-es-Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a
joint project completion report was issued in January 1979 for the Second and
Third Harbours projects. General cargo throughput has increased above
appraisal forecasts for Dar-es-Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has
generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports
in both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA has
already been disbursed.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays
in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with the
relocation of headquarters. About US$32.2 million of the loan has now been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
7/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Comunity loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA and 914-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 44 -                          ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of
the three countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on
EADB's portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore,
continues to be EADB's priority.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
December 31, 1981
Fiscal Year       Obligor              Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels               5.2      0.7      5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and
1979          Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2         6.3     28.5
1972          Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels             2.4       -       2.4
1976          Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles           6.3      2.8      9.1
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market    2.0        -       2.0
1980          Development Finance        Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance             -       1.3      1.3
1981          Kenya Commercial           Money & Capital
Finance                   Market            5.0       -       5.0
1982          Bamburi Portland           Cement &           4.9       -       4.9
Cement Co., Ltd.         Construction
Material
Total Gross Commitments                  48.0    11.1      59 1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   13.0      1.8     14.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC        35.0      9.3     44.3
Total Undisbursed                        15.0       -      15.0



46 -                       ANNEX III
KENYA-COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                          5 months
(b) Prepared by Government, CLSMB and
RMEA
(c) Date of first major presentation
to the Bank Group:                              February, 1980
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                              March-April, 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                                   December, 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  September, 1982
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Responsibility for seed cotton transport would be transferred to
cooperatives, or arrangements would be made for handling by
private transporters, following consultation with IDA, no
later than January 1, 1986 (paragraph 54).
(b)  Proposals for the use of consultants  services would be
included in the Project annual work programs (paragraph 57).
(c) Terms and conditions of onlending from CBK to CLSMB and
cooperatives would be incorporated in a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and CBK and in a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement between CBK and CLSMB (paragraph 60).
(d) Procurement arrangements would be agreed and technical assistance
and consulting services (inclusive of audit and legal and manage-
ment services) would be engaged under terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA (paragraph 61).
(e) CLSMB, CBK and the cooperatives would open and administer
separate Project accounts and would keep records consistent
with sound accounting practice (paragraph 63).



47 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) CLSMB's accounts and auditor's reports would be sent to IDA
not later than six months after the closing of CLSMBEs
financial year (paragraph 63).
(g) CLSMB would make arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the
independent audit of expenditures under the Project for dis-
bursements made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(paragraph 63).
(h) Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to
audit Project-related entities and accounts, including specifi-
cally an initial audit of participating cooperatives, to be
furnished to IDA as soon as available (paragraph 63).
(i) A Project Coordinating/Steering Committee (PCSC) would be
established (paragraph 64).
(j) The arrangements for feasibility studies and all plans for
transferring responsibility for management of ginneries from
CLSMB to cooperatives would be submitted to IDA for approval
(paragraph 64).
(k) A mid-term review would be carried out before end-1984 to
assess the cooperatives performance and the progress of the
management improvement programs under the Project: If progress
is not satisfactory, alternative management arrangements would
be considered (paragraph 64).
(1)  The Department and Division heads of CLSMB would be filled at
all times by individuals with qualifications acceptable to IDA
(paragraph 65).
(m) Arrangements for preparation and approval of annual work
programs.and budgets would be agreed (paragraph 66).
(n) A training program for CLSMB and cooperative personnel would
be submitted to IDA not later than October 31, 1982, and would
be promptly submitted to the PCSC for approval, but not later
than December 31, 1982, (paragraph 67).
(o)  CLSMB's new Monitoring and Evaluating Division would design
and implement, not later than September 30, 1982, a monitoring
and evaluation system (paragraph 68).
(p) Government to prepare and submit a Project completion report
to IDA not later than six months after the expected closing
date (paragraph 68).



- 48 -                      ANNEX III
Page 3
(q) Government would set the prices of cotton taking into account
farmers incentives, financial stability of institutions
involved in cotton processing and marketing, and parity with
international price levels, and periodically review these prices
with IDA (paragraph 70).
(r) CLSMB would cease to finance farm inputs for seed cotton
production not later than July 1, 1983, and separate accounts
would be kept until this phaseout occurs (paragraph 71).
(s)  Cooperatives would undertake no new investments or financial
commitment with respect to operations other than those related to
their cotton processing and marketing operations without prior
consultation, through MOCD, with CLSMB, CBK and IDA (paragraph
71).
(t) Special conditions of effectiveness include: (i) appointment
and posting of heads of the Technical Services and Finance
Departments of CLSMB and the CBK senior financial analyst
(paragraph 57); (ii) execution of an agreement by a consortium of
banks to meet the immediate financial requirements of CLSMB under
cover of a Government guarantee and jointly administered by CBK
and the First National Bank of Chicago (paragraph 58); and (iii)
execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and CBK and a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between CBK and
CLSMB (paragraph 60).
(u) Special conditions for disbursement include: (i) detailed
investment plans for civil works and equipment for ginneries
have been approved by IDA (paragraphs 62 and 64); (ii) with
respect to seed cotton purchases and ginning fees, only incre-
mental such purchases and fees would be covered under the Project
and disbursements would be made only in Project years in which
such purchases and fees in bales of lint equivalent are higher
than in the immediately preceeding Project year (paragraph 62);
and (iii) approval by IDA and the PCSC of annual work programs
and budgets for the period and Credit categories to which each
program is related, as well as execution of the Project in
accordance with the annual plans as approved (paragraph 66).



IBRD 15232
ta-,1g\ | \N                              K                               I        q                5   E 4t :n0t  f.?0X'  ¶  ?    w\w1  
is:*g)             N                     f                         
\ 0  ?:  ff li  \     H        z     v               X /         k                  afi ~~~a
5  !'  (.--   t C
RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~"~~~ 
4-
: ' @ , WV   t=i'' dS,'         j;-='
U)~~~~~~~~~~'
~~~~~~~. QŽsD                                                         -__ .jr4i teij1  -,D:i
:00 9 X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,'                                                             *zz -~ ~  rU1i:g    :  l
a            e               v    ;f S' ';\    4;t£$2i-.a 
0              !- ff0sX.SW>z  E   ;  ,''              f   S i  mLV 1 f
U)3E;       0 (    4;        D  f  



