Document of
The World Bank    .; - -             ;                **{
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3355-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
April 6, 1982
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizagion.  |



KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units         Kenya Shillings (K Sh)
US$1.00                K Sh 10.00 1/
K Sh 1.00              US$0.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                            British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                    :       3.28 feet
l'hectare (ha)                 :       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2               0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )       :       0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                :       2.205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                    :       0.26 US gallon (gl)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (t)               :       2,205 pounds (lb)
1 bale of lint                 :       185 kilograms (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC         -         Agricultural Finance Corporation
CBK         -         Cooperative Bank of Kenya
CDP         -         Cotton Development Program
CLSMB       -         Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
IADP I      -         First Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IADP II     -         Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
ICB         -         International Competitive Bidding
MOA         -         Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD         -        Ministry of Cooperative Development
PAC         -         Parastatals Advisory Committee
PY          -         Project Year
MT           -        Member's Transaction/Payment Cotton System
PCSC         -        Project Coordinating/Steering Committee
FISCAL YEAR
Government, CLSMB    :         July 1 to June 30
CBK                   :        October 1 to September 30
1/   Since October 1975 the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at
a rate of SDR - K Sh 9.66. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time:  1 US$ = K Sh 10.00 has been used in evaluating this
Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .............................................   1
A. Project History ........ . ...........................   1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                  1
C. Government Services to Agriculture.                       4
D. Agricultural Credit.                                      7
E. Bank Group Support for Agriculture.                       9
II.   THE COTTON SUB-SECTOR ..................................  11
A. General   .............................................   11
B. Cotton Production     ...................................  12
C. Cotton Processing and Marketing .....................  14
D. Government Services to the Cotton Sub-Sector ........  18
E. Development Constraints and Potential ...............  22
III. THE PROJECT .23
A. General Description          ...........................  23
B. Detailed Features .......   ......................       24
C. Cost Estimates        ......................................  30
D. Financing         .. .........................  32
E. Procurement ...                                          33
F. Disbursements ...                                        34
G. Accounts and Audit ...                                   35
H. Environmental Impact ...                                 36
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .                                      37
A. Organization and Management   .          .37
B. Training   ..42
C. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation   .     .42
D. Implementation Timetable    .          .43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Kenya in March-April 1980, composed of Messrs. J. Gamba, Y. Gazzo,
W. Jones (IDA), P. Bulteau and J. Munro (consultants). A post-appraisal
mission visited Kenya in September-October 1980 (Messrs J. Gamba and Y. Gazzo)
and follow-up missions were made in April 1981 (Mr. W. I. Jones) and July 1981
(Mr. Y. Gazzo).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.  MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSlS .....  ............  43
A. Market Prospects and Prices ......  ...................  43
B. Financial Analysis .......... ........................  45
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................  47
A. Project Benefits .....................................  47
B. Economic Justification ..............................  48
C. Risks and Sensitivity ........... ....................  48
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................  49
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAP
1.  Supporting Tables
1.  CLSMB Accounts 1976-80
2.  Project Cost Summary by Component
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.  Economic Price of Cotton
5.  Cotton:  Cost of Production per hectare
6.  Government Cash Flow
7.  Summary of Project Economic Benefits
8.  Economic Analysis
2.  Charts
1.  CLSMB Organization
2.  Project Implementation Schedule.
3.  Material Available in Implementation Volume
4.  MAP  IBRD 15232



KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKEIING PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Projeqt History
1.01      The Kenyan Government initiated the Cotton Development Program
(CDP) in 1975 in a major effort to increase national cotton production.
Its principal objective was to achieve self-sufficiency for domestic textile
production by addressing production constraints such as inadequate extension
services, poor distribution of inputs, and shortage of credit available to
farmers. The Cotton Development Review Committee, set up in 1976 to implement
the CDP, also identified inefficiencies in ginning, storage, handling of
seed cotton, and payment to growers as key sub-sectoral bottlenecks. As part
of the CDP, Government, with assistance from RMEA, prepared a project to
address the sub-sector's processing and marketing problems and presented this
Project proposal to IDA with a request for financing in February 1980. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting of
J. Gamba, Y. Gazzo, W. Jones (IDA), P. Bulteau and J. Munro (consultants),
which visited Kenya in March-April 1980. A post-appraisal mission subse-
quently visited Kenya in September-October 1980; follow-up missions were also
made in April 1981 (W. Jones) and July 1981 (Y. Gazzo). Ms. T. Kimes also
contributed to this report. No major changes were made in the scope of the
proposed Project during appraisal, but development of a financing plan for the
project-implementing agency was considered essential and required intensive
review during the appraisal process.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2
1.02      Kenya, with a total area of 583,000 km , is a country of great
topographical, climatic and soil contrasts. Almost half the total area is
near desert, with very limited agricultural potential, while the plateaus
of Central Kenya include some of the most fertile soils of Africa. Kenya's
population is estimated at 15.3 million (mid-1979) and is growing at an
estimated rate of 3.9% per year; about 90% of this population is classified
as rural and depends on agriculture for a livelihood. While considerable
progress has been made since independence in alleviating rural poverty, rapid
population growth is offsetting much of the gains. Population density largely
reflects ecological potential, with the largest concentrations of people living
in a broad corridor of well-watered lands from east of Nairobi to Lake Victoria,
or along the Coast. The semi-arid and arid grasslands of Kenya s2pport a
sparse population; density averages less than five persons per km . Variations
in population density are also explained by tribal settlement patterns and by
the alienation of large tracts of land for expatriate farms during the colonial
period.
1.03      Kenya's equatorial location and the altitude of certain parts of
the country provide it with some excellent agricultural land, but the amount



-2-
of such land is limited   Ecological classification of the land area indicates
that only 9% (53,000 km ) has high agricultural potential and a further 9%
has medium potential. The principal agricultural activities in the high poten-
tial areas are hybrid maize, forest, coffee, tea, pyrethrum, and intensive
livestock; mixed farming, consisting of hybrid maize, wheat, pulses, cotton,
groundnuts, oil seeds, cashew, coconuts and livestock2 predominates in
the medium potential areas.  Although 18% (106,000 km ) of the land area is
classified 2as having high to medium agricultural potential, only about 7%
(40,000 km ) can be described as good agricultural land with adequate and
reliable r2infall, good soils, and cultivable slopes. An additional 4.5%
(25,700 km ) is arable, but i I subject to periodic drought and crop failure.
The remaining 82% (465,000 km ) of the land area is covered by arid and
semi-arid rangelands that are suitable only for livestock, and even for this
purpose the potential is very low. Given these eco-climatic conditions and
with little high and medium potential land remaining uncultivated, Kenya does
not have surplus land, and intensification of agricultural techniques plus
effective resource conservation are of paramount importance.
1.04      Kenya's agricultural sector is characterized by a wide variety of
systems of production which reflect the differences between ecological zones,
patterns of land tenure and population distribution. A broad distinction
can be made between the large-scale farming sector, including Government
farms, and the smallholder sector which employs the great majority of the
rural population. Large farms are defined as those ranches and farms covering
20 ha and more. Production is oriented to the commercial market and the
principal crops are tea, coffee, sisal, sugar, maize and wheat, in addition to
livestock. Large farms cover about 2.7 million ha, of which 1.8 million are
arable. Smallholder agriculture is the dominant mode of production in Kenya
and accounts for about 75% of total agricultural output (when allowance is
made for informal subdivision of large farms) and about 85% of total agricul-
tural employment. There are about 1.7 million smallholdings which cover some
3.5 million ha, or two-thirds of the arable land devoted to agriculture.
Maize is the staple crop but smallholders also produce beans, coffee, sugar,
tea, pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds, potatoes and fruit, and keep a few head of
livestock, mainly for milk. The overall average size of a smallholding is
about 2 ha, but over 50% of all smallholdings are under 1 ha, and 75% are
under 2 ha.
1.05      Kenya's 1979 GDP in current market prices is estimated at about
K Sh 60.4 billion (US$6.0 billion), equivalent to K Sh 3,940 (US$394) per
capita; of this about K Sh 13.6 billion (US$1.4 billion) was contributed by
the agricultural sector. The growth of agricultural production has also
declined since the early 1970s, with an average annual rate of 2.7% in real
terms between 1974 and 1979, compared to 4.2% in the period 1964-1973. With a
present population growth rate of 3.9% per annum, per capita agricultural
production is undergoing a substantial decline. Poor weather conditions and
high input prices after the 1973 oil price increases account for some of the
slowdown in the mid-1970-s; more important, the sources of growth for the



previous 20 year period -- diffusion of high yield maize varieties, rapid
growth of coffee, tea, and dairying production, and expansion into underutilized
high potential areas -- had virtually reached the limits of their potential
impact on growth. The boom in world coffee prices in 1977 temporarily reversed
the deterioration in the growth rate, but since then it has dropped to under
2% per annum. Crop failures in 1979/80 due largely to drought have resulted
in serious grain and milk deficits throughout Kenya; it is estimated that
production fell short of demand in 1980 by 250,000 t of maize, 125,000 t of
wheat, 25,000 t of rice and 6,000 t of milk supplies.
1.06      Agricultural exports, always the largest single sector contributor
to total exports, had a value of K Sh 4.3 billion (US$430.0 million) in 1979
or 56% of the value of total exports (excluding re-exports) of K Sh 7.7
billion (US$770.0 million). Coffee is Kenya's main export crop (about 30% of
total exports), but other principal foreign exchange earners include tea,
sisal, pyrethrum, animal hides and skins, and tinned pineapples. Kenya
exports high grade cotton and imports low-grade and specialized kinds of
cotton for the domestic textile industry (para. 2.05). Kenya also imports
significant quantities of other agricultural products, notably wheat and
edible oils. As a result of the recent food crisis (para. 1.05), massive
grain imports were undertaken during 1980 with a total value of K Sh 712
million (US$71.2 million); maize accounted for 61% of this food import
bill (K Sh 434 million/US$43.4 million).
1.07      Maize is Kenya-s staple crop and dominates the cropping pattern.
Over one million ha are under maize cultivation, about 90% of it on farms
of less than 5 ha. Pulses are probably second to maize in terms of planted
area. Small-scale farmers produce most of the output, mainly for consumption
on the farm; beans are the most widely planted pulse crop. Wheat is the
second most important cereal crop in Kenya after maize, with over 90% of the
crop cultivated on farms larger than 20 ha. Consumption has overtaken pro-
duction in recent years, largely as a result of sub-division of large farms
(small farmers tend to shift to maize) and rapidly increasing demand due
in large part to urbanization; substantial amounts of wheat are now imported.
Sorghum and finger millet are important cereal crops for smallholders in areas
which are too dry for maize. The importance of these crops is growing rapidly
as people move into the marginal areas. Rice is a minor crop and is grown
only under irrigation. Coffee, tea and pyrethrum used to be grown exclusively
on large farms but are now the principal cash crops grown by small farmers.
Cotton is exclusively grown by smallholders; production is currently estimated
at about 30,000 t of seed cotton (para. 2.02).
Development Strategy
1.08      The 1979-83 Development Plan gives considerable attention to the
agricultural sector and particularly to the problems of smallholder agricul-
ture. The Government's development objectives for agriculture can be sum-
marized as follows: (a) to achieve self-sufficiency in agricultural products;
(b) to increase both the output and productivity of export commodities; (c) to
diversify output to spread the risks of price fluctuation; and (d) to develop,



- 4 -
through integrated programs, social and physical infrastructure for both cash
and food crops, thereby raising incomes and living standards in the poorer
parts of the country. Output of the sector as a whole is projected to grow at
an average rate of 4.7% between 1979 and 1983 and that of commercial agriculture
at a rate of 6.5%. This rapid growth of output is essential to feeding the
growing population, earning and saving foreign exchange, and raising rural
incomes. Programs and measures proposed to support the development of the
agricultural sector focus primarily on land use, marketing and pricing, and
research and extension services. According to the Plan, the Government intends
to (i) focus research and extension programs on the needs of smallholders and
the requirements of intensified land use; (ii) improve the marketing efficiency
of the state agricultural boards; (iii) pay closer attention to the structure
of domestic prices and their relationship to world prices during the annual
review of agricultural prices; and (iv) legalize subdivision of large-scale
mixed farms and provide these farmers with extension and other services
comparable to those in smallholder areas. The CDP (paras. 1.01 and 2.24) is
part of this broad strategy to achieve self-sufficiency in agricultural
products; it focuses on many of the issues singled out for attention in the
Plan. The CDP is important to the development of the small farm sector
because cotton is exclusively a smallholder crop.
1.09      The Government's objectives and strategy for the food crop sector
are further detailed in the National Food Policy Paper, Sessional Paper
No. 4 of 1981. The basic objective set forth is to provide an increasingly
nutritious diet to the population and to maintain a position of self-sufficiency
in staple food crops to avoid use of scarce foreign exchange for food imports.
The paper emphasizes that higher rates of growth are needed than those speci-
fied in the 1979-83 Development Plan because of rapidly increasing demand for
food, primarily resulting from the high population growth rate. To be fully
self-sufficient in maize for the coming decade, production would need to
expand by 6.8% per annum; for beans, milk, and beef the required rates are
7.6%, 5.6%, and 8.8%, respectively. If these production growth rates are not
achieved, the overall supply-demand balance will steadily worsen, necessitat-
ing ever-increasing foreign exchange expenditures on food imports. To achieve
these production goals, the Government proposes a number of policy measures:
(a) priority is to be given to investment in the agricultural sector; (b)
extension services, credit and storage facilities are to be focussed on
subsistence crops; and (c) efficiency of production, marketing and distribu-
tion is to be improved. The paper further emphasizes that the development
and application of a well-defined land policy will be essential to the long-
term development of the agricultural sector. While it is clear that Kenya's
rapidly growing population will require an increasing emphasis on food crop
production in the coming years, the Government recognizes the need to maintain
parallel efforts to support cash crops, such as cotton, which supplement
smallholder income, particularly in marginal areas.
C. Government Services to Agriculture
1.10      A number of Government institutions provide rural development
services. The main Government channels for assistance to the smallholder
sector are the Ministry of Agriculture through its extension services, the
Ministry of Cooperative Development through a wide range of services to
cooperative unions and societies, and the Ministry of Livestock Development.



-5-
Technical ministries, such as the Ministries of Works and Water Development,
are responsible for development efforts within their field while the Ministry
of Lands and Settlements implements policy on the redistribution of land,
adjudicates land claims, and issues titles. In addition, a number of statutory
bodies provide credit, processing and marketing facilities to producers.
The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
1.11      MOA has primary responsibility for agricultural development, and
implements policy and promotes agricultural production. A Development Planning
Division is a support unit for the technical divisions of the Ministry and is
the main link with the Ministry of Economic Planning, taking responsibility
for all economic and planning matters related to agriculture. The divisional
structure of the Department of Agriculture was reorganized and simplified in
early 1979 to allow efficient allocation of manpower and resources to priority
projects, notably through a Project Management and Evaluation Division which
has overall responsibility for management and implementation of ongoing
projects. The Scientific Research Division is now being further reorganized
as an autonomous Agricultural Research Institute.
1.12      Agricultural Extension Services.  Ministry headquarters is respons-
ible for overall policy decisions and administration but field operations
are directed by the Provincial Directors of Agriculture (PDA) in close liaison
with the Deputy Director of Agriculture and are organized on a district basis
under District Agricultural Officers (DAOs). Provincial extension services
have a high degree of autonomy within certain limits set by Government policy.
In the past, most extension agents specialized in specific crop production,
but since a major reorganization in 1976, extension agents have been acting as
generalists at farm level promoting improved management of the farm as a
whole. The generalist background of extension staff has proved a drawback in
the cotton growing areas since specialized instruction is required in cotton
pest control and harvesting. There are approximately 12,000 extension
agents for both crop and livestock development; the number of holdings per
extension officer averages about 230. Since 1976, Government policy has
been to increase coverage in key development areas and to upgrade the caliber
of agents, giving them better working conditions, particularly as regards
transport, which has been a severe constraint in the past.
1.13      Agricultural Research.  The Scientific Research Division of MOA
has the main responsibility for agricultural research. The Division is
directly involved in crop research, including grasses and fodder. There are
24 research stations in Kenya and, up to now, work has concentrated on adapta-
tion of improved crop varieties, usually for the priority production of the
areas where the stations are located. Research on domestic livestock is done
by the Ministry of Livestock Development and by the Scientific Research
Division, and joint programs are undertaken. Cotton research activities are
described in paras 2.19 and 2.20.
The Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD)
1.14      Following the Cooperative Act of February 1977, MOCD is responsible
for supervising the cooperative unions and societies and providing them with
management advice. It consists of one Department which is headed by the
Commissioner for Cooperative Development. The Commissioner has wide powers to
regulate the cooperatives, including the right to remove the committee of a



-6-
society or replace it for a limited time, to enforce mergers of uneconomical
societies, to ensure that expenditures are kept within approved budgets, and to
issue credit policies for the unions and societies. The Ministry's aim is to
strengthen the unions and societies until they are capable of running their own
affairs. The activities of this Ministry are central to the Governments
development objectives for agriculture because many of the rural poor rely on
the cooperatives for input supplies, storage and marketing.  However, MOCD has
had difficulty in executing its surveillance and support responsibilities, due
in large part to problems in attracting and retaining qualified staff. An
evaluation of the staffing situation and of positive structural changes is
currently under way at MOCD; implementation of the study's findings should put
MOCD in a much better position to provide financing, planning and training
services to the unions and societies in the field. To support this institu-
tional strengthening process, the IDA-financed IADP II Project (Cr. 959-KE)
includes training of MOCD Cooperative Officers, Cooperative Auditors, and
Accounts Examiners operating in the field.
1.15      The cooperative movement of Kenya was initiated more than 30 years
ago and has grown continuously since then. At the end of 1977, there were
about 1,400 active cooperative societies with a membership of about one
million families. The size of societies varies from a few hundred to several
thousand members. Their activities cover the whole range of services from
input supplies to wholesaling; some also have housing, savings and credit
operations. The highest coverage is achieved in Eastern, Central, and Nyanza
Provinces where about 30-40% of the rural households are members of coopera-
tives; coverage in the other provinces is much lower, with only 7% of rural
households in Rift Valley Province and almost none in North Eastern Province.
There are currently an estimated 100 cooperative societies in the cotton
growing areas providing services to cotton growers; of these about 40 are
primarily concerned with cotton marketing and processing (para. 2.18).
Statutory Boards
1.16      The public sector in Kenya currently includes 66 parastatals and
country-wide cooperatives, not including subsidiaries of parastatals and
Government-owned farms and companies. Parastatals are found in all sectors,
and because of the size and scope of their operations, their management has a
significant impact on the country's economy. When it became clear that many
parastatals were experiencing financial difficulties as a result of inappro-
priate organizational structures, poor management, and ineffective supervision
by Government, the President established a committee of senior Government
officers in January 1979 to review the financial, administrative and opera-
tional problems facing the statutory boards. The conclusions of this commit-
tee, often referred to as the Ndegwa Report (after the committee chairman),
were published in May 1979 and provide a clear basis for reform and rationa-
lization.
1.17      The committee found that the growth of the parastatal sector since
independence had not been accompanied by the development of efficient manage-
ment systems. No uniform and coordinated procedures for assuring public
accountability existed, and financial control procedures were totally lacking.
Overlapping responsibilities among statutory boards was a recurring problem,
and appointment procedures and the terms and conditions of service varied
widely among parastatals and in relation to the Civil Service. In the absence
of an effective central supervisory body, problems of inefficiency, financial



mismanagement, waste, and malpractice had accumulated and intensified. The
principal recommendations proposed by the committee to resolve these problems
included a proposal that the Chairman of a parastatal should be non-executive
and part-time, appointed for a period of three years, and that the Managing
Director should be the chief executive officer, responsible for day-to-day
operations. Staff appointment procedures should be standardized and a common
framework of salaries and terms of service established. Further, each para-
statal should have a qualified financial controller and, depending on its
scope of operations, an internal audit section, and should prepare annual
operating budgets and forward budgets. These recommendations have been
approved by the Kenyan Government and are in the process of being implemented.
The Government has also established a Parastatals Advisory Committee (PAC) to
consider and advise on all matters relating to parastatals; this committee
is composed of the Permanent Secretary, Office of the President (Chairman),
the Inspector of Statutory Boards (Ministry of Finance) and the Permanent
Secretaries of Finance, Personnel Management and Planning.
1.18      At present, 15 statutory production boards operate in the agricultural
sector, under the aegis of MOA. These boards are either general, trading
in a number of agricultural products, or crop-specific. The Cotton Lint and
Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) (para. 2.13 ff) is a crop-specific statutory board
created in 1955 in accordance with the Cotton Limit and Seed Marketing Act
(Cotton Act) to serve as the Government's main instrument for intervention in
the cotton sector. CLSMB is discussed in more detail in Chapter II.
D. Agricultural Credit
1.19      Kenya has a well-developed banking system and financial sector by
regional standards. The Central Bank of Kenya controls the operations of
financial institutions through directives on key issues such as priority
lending sectors, interest rates, liquidity and reserve requirements, and
lending to foreign companies. As of September 1981, the maximum commercial
bank lending rate allowed by the Central Bank was 14%, the minimum interest
rates payable on savings deposits were 9%, and lending to the private sector
was limited to a target annual growth rate of 18%. Interest rates in general
and for agriculture in particular are the subject of a continuing dialogue
between the Government of Kenya and the Bank. The credit requirements of the
agricultural sector are being given high priority and measures to provide
credit to targeted segments of the agricultural sector are being introduced.
In particular, commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions were
required to direct at least 17% and 10%, respectively, of their deposit
liabilities to the agricultural sector by June 1981.
1.20      Agricultural credit in Kenya is available from a number of institu-
tions in the formal credit market and from individuals operating in an informal
manner. Little is known about the informal market, but significant amounts of
money seem to change hands, especially within the extended family system. The
main formal sources of agricultural credit are: (i) commercial banks; (ii)
agricultural credit institutions; (iii) marketing boards; and (iv) input
suppliers. Credit extended to the agricultural sector amounted to about
K Sh 3.2 billion (US$320.0 million) in 1980, of which about 55% was supplied
by the commercial banks, about 35% by the agricultural credit institutions,
and the remaining 10% by the marketing boards and input suppliers.



-8-
l121      Sixteen Commercial Banks currently operate in Kenya, but the Kenya
Commercial Bank, Barclay's Bank and Standard Bank Ltd. dominate the banking
system and account for approximately 90% of total deposits and commercial
banking credits; they have over 250 bank branches, sub-branches and agencies
and several mobile bank units which visit a number of smaller towns and villages
at regular intervals. The bulk of commercial bank lending to agriculture is to
large-scale farmers, farming companies and agro-industries; however, they also
handle an estimated 10,000 to 12,000 loans to medium and small-scale farmers.
Farmers generally borrow under short-term lines of credit for specific crops.
It is Government policy to promote small farm loans, but the high cost of
administering small loans and the lack of dependable farm management and
inadequate credit supervision are constraints to increased lending. As of June
30, 1980, total commercial bank lending to agriculture amounted to K Sh 2.1
billion (US$210 million), equivalent to about 17% of total net deposits.
1.22      Agricultural Credit Institutions.  The Agricultural Finance Corpora-
tion (AFC) and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (CBK) are the principal
agricultural lending institutions in Kenya. AFC, a statutory board, was
established in 1963 to assist in agricultural development by making loans
to individual farmers, public enterprises, and private companies. AFC is
governed by an eight-member Board of Directors which takes an active role in
day-to-day lending operations. The General Manager is the Chief Executive,
appointed by the Board with the consent of the Ministers for Agriculture and
Finance. AFC operates 34 branch offices that provide broad coverage of
Kenya's principal agricultural areas, and currently employs about 470 people,
approximately 60% in the branch offices and the rest in Nairobi headquarters.
Most staff have agricultural backgrounds, and few employees have accounting,
financial or data processing skills. As the primary agricultural credit
institution in Kenya, AFC provides long, medium and short-term credit to both
large and small-scale farmers. Long-term loans are primarily for land acqui-
sition, medium-term loans for on-farm development, and short-term loans for
seasonal crop production. It is Government policy that AFC become increasingly
involved in small farm credit. AFC lends almost invariably against security,
normally the title deed to a farmer's land, and it currently charges interest
of 13Z per year. Repayment periods range from one year for seasonal credit to
20 years for land purchase loans, with the possibility of extension to 30
years.
1.23      CBK was established in 1968 to stabilize the financial resources
of the cooperative movement and to utilize these funds for lending to member
cooperative unions and societies. About 1,100 cooperative unions and societies
are members and shareholders of CBK, representing about 80% of registered
unions and societies. CBK is governed by a Board of Directors composed of six
representatives of the Cooperative movement and four representatives of the
Government. It currently employs about 55 people, 25 of whom are professional
staff. CBK's lending program consists primarily of: (i) production loans
(31Z); (ii) crop advances (27%); (iii) farm, property and construction loans
(20%); and (iv) vehicle, tractor, and merchandizing loans (22%).  Production
loans are available to individual farmers through unions and primary societies,
subject to the approval of the society's credit committee. Funds for produc-
tion loans have been made available under several Government programs such as
the Cooperative Production Credit Scheme, the Smallholder Production and



- 9 -
Services Credit Program, and the Integrated Agricultural Development Program
(IADP). Crop advances, important in bridging the gap between harvesting and
selling of the crop, benefit the unions and societies which deal with cotton,
maize and coffee. Farm and property loans finance the purchase of farms by
Kenyan farmers; construction loans finance mainly cotton ginneries and coffee
factory construction and improvements. When making loans for the acquisition
of vehicles and tractors, CBK advances 60% of the cost of the vehicle and the
borrowing society is required to raise the remaining 40%. Merchandizing loans
finance purchase of farm inputs; over 90% of these loans have been made to the
Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives Ltd., with the remainder going to
cooperative societies. The current interest rate charged on most CBK loans is
13% this rate is adjusted from time to time to take account of overall changes
in interest rate policies (para. 1.18).
1.24      CBK's financial position is problematic due to its dual role as a
commercial bank and as the primary credit source for cooperative unions and
societies. Although CBK has shown a profit and paid income taxes every year
since it began operations, annual profits have been decreasing since 1977;
this is largely because deposits have decreased by about 20% between 1977 and
the present while lending operations have increased. CBK has supported this
increased lending program by serving as a lending intermediary for financial
assistance from external aid agencies. While this permits CBK to continue
functioning, it does not resolve the fundamental problem, which is the chaotic
financial situation of the cooperative unions and societies due to poor
management. The poor repayment record of the cooperatives is a major problem
which needs to be addressed. As of June 30, 1980, CBK had K Sh 407.0 million
(US$40.7 million) in loans outstanding and total assets of K Sh 509.0 million
(US$50.9 million).
1.25      Marketing Boards.  Smallholders growing tea, pyrethrum, coffee, and
cotton may obtain seasonal or medium-term credit from the respective monopoly
marketing organizations. Cash crop loans constitute most of these funds, and
farmers growing only subsistence crops have little access to this type of
credit. Semi-commercial farmers can obtain medium-term advances for the
establishment of additional acreage and short-term advances for the purchase
of fertilizers and other inputs from the Marketing Boards. Details of CLSMB
credit operations are given in para. 2.14.
1.26      Input Suppliers.  The Kenya Farmers Association provides credit for
purchases of agricultural inputs to members in good standing. Generally, such
credits must be settled within 30 days of purchase, but this term can be
extended to 90 days for the most creditworthy members. Credit balances earn
interest at 4% per annum, and overdue items incur a 10% per annum penalty
charge. The Settlement Fund and Kenya Breweries Ltd. also provide suppliers
credit to qualified applicants.
E. Bank Group Support for Agriculture
1.27      Bank Group agriculture projects in Kenya over the past 20 years have
supported a broad range of objectives identified in the Government-s develop-
ment strategy (paras. 1.08 and 1.09) and have sought to stimulate the productive
potential of both the subsistence and commercial farming sectors. A total of



- 10 -
22 agricultural Loans and Credits has been extended of which eight have been
completed and 14 are under implementation; ongoing Loans and Credits total
about US$350 million, and total project costs were estimated at about US$740
million at appraisal.  A breakdown of lending shows that aboilF 35% cf the
total Loan and Credit value was directed to the smallholder sector and another
8% supported the development of livestock rearing activities in the pastoralist
areas. The export/industrial crop sector received about 30% of total agri-
cultural lending, medium and large-scale farmers about 8%, and the forestry
and settlement project and a fisheries project about 11% and 2%, respec-
tively. Project performance has been mixed, with some notable successes
and some equally problematic operations; however, certain common institutional,
financial, and policy problems have emerged in almost all agricultural projects
financed by the Bank Group. For instance, the poor financial management of
executing agencies is a commonly recognized problem, with staff numbers and
training falling short of program needs; the lack of inter-ministerial coordi-
nation has also constrained project performance in many cases. At the policy
level, the continued delay in defining a national land use policy has seriously
impeded the achievement of project objectives, whether one looks at operations
in the smallholder, livestock, forestry, or large-farm sectors. The Government's
price policy has posed problems for the production of a number of food and'
cash crops and has undermined the financial viability of marketing operations
undertaken by parastatal boards. In addition, the general financial difficul-
ties which the Government has experienced during the past few years have
affected project operations across the board and in some cases have seriously
retarded project start-up. An in-depth review of the causes of the poor
project implementation performance and, consequently, poor disbursements
record, has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible
solutions were discussed with the Government in March 1982, at a country
implementation review meeting (CIR) during which the Government informed the
Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve performance. These included:
(i) establishing a task force to monitor the administration of agencies in
seeking reimbursement from the Bank Group; (ii) the establishment, by June
1982, of a Project Implementation Committee comprising the three Permanent
Secretaries of the coordinating ministries (Office of the President, Finance,
and Planning) with a permanent secretariat; and (iii) Government's identifica-
tion of priorities for rationalizing existing project commitments within the
framework of present financial and administrative limitations. The Government
will consider reducing the scope of some projects, eliminating some altogether,
and stretching out the implementation period of others. A follow-up to-this
CIR would take place in September 1982.
1.28      The Bank Group has become increasingly involved in lending to the
smallholder sector in Kenya and in addressing the production and marketing
constraints facing small farmers through its lending operations. Project
performance has been seriously constrained by problems which are common to
virtually all smallholder operations, notably delays in the extension of
credit to farmers and difficulties in supporting credit programs with effective
technical packages and extension services. Both of these factors reduce the
productive impact of the credit extended and result in poor recovery rates;
low recovery rates in turn reduce AFC and CBK willingness to continue small-
holder lending operations without Government guarantees and this contributes
to the delays which are at the root of poor smallholder credit performance.



Another iBasic cou.3traint is the financial and managerial weakness of the
cooperative unions and societies; these deficiencies lead to delays in estab-
lishing creditworthiness, in processing loan applications, and in obtaining
inputs, thereby contributing to poor credit performance. Poor supervision of
sub-borrowers use of credit, due to staffing constraints on the part of AFC
and CBK, has resulted in misallocations of funds from planned programs.
Ongoing and planned projects, notably IADP I and II and the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project, are designed to address these problems.
1.29      The Bank Group has not previously financed operations focussed
exclusively on the cotton sector. However, the Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project (Cr. 722 KE; Ln 1449-KE), co-financed by the Bank/IDA, provides for
the irrigation development of 6,700 ha, mainly for cotton, and the settlement
of some 5,150 families. The project became effective in 1978 and is expected
to be completed in December 1984. At full development of the project, produc-
tion of seed cotton is expected to be about 20,000 tons annually. Lending
operations such as IADP I and II (Ln. 1303T-KE/Cr. 650-KE and Cr. 959-KE)
have also benefitted cotton producers through the wide range of services and
inputs provided to smallholders. In addition to improving production support
services, these projects have sought to strengthen CLSMB and to improve cotton
marketing in project areas. Under IADP I, the filling of Board vacancies and
the appointment of a Financial Controller, Marketing Officer, and Chief
Accountant were conditions of Loan/Credit effectiveness; in addition, coopera-
tive societies in IADP districts were made sole buyers of seed cotton. IADP II
has focussed on removing the marketing and storage constraints impeding CLSMB
and cooperative society cotton operations. K Sh 8 million (US$0.80 million)
were allocated for CLSMB field facilities and transport equipment and K Sh 9.8
million (US$1.0 million) for the costs of operating these capital investments.
The construction of storage facilities and purchase of transport equipment for
cooperative societies were estimated to cost K Sh 7.6 million (US$0.80 million)
with an associated operating cost of K Sh 9.6 million (US$1.0 million);
improvement of cooperative marketing operations would benefit all crops, not
just cotton. CLSMB performance appears to have improved in areas included in
IADP as a result of project activities, but the cooperatives assisted suffer
from financial and managerial inadequacies (para. 1.28) which have constrained
their marketing operations. The proposed Project would provide the broad
sectoral perspective necessary to rationalize cotton sector operations and to
improve marketing and processing on a national basis.
II.   THE COTTON SUB-SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Cotton is not one of Kenya-s most important crops, and production
is small when compared with the output of major world producers. The contribu-
tion of cotton production, processing and marketing to GDP in 1980 was less
than 1%. Gross value of production amounted to about K Sh 130.4 million
(US$13.0 million) for seed cotton production and about K Sh 62.8 million
(US$6.3 million) for marketing and ginning. Despite cotton's small share in



- 12 -
domestic production, it is important for the development of Kenya's marginal
areas, where farm families have few cash crop alternatives, to the operation
of the textile and garment industries, and to the foreign trade balance.
Cotton is cultivated exclusively by smallholders and the purchase, transport,
and ginning of the cotton crop are carried out by CLSMB, cooperative unions and
societies, and private ginnery owners. CLSMB handles the marketing of lint and
cotton seed to domestic and foreign firms. Local cotton production supplies
the Kenyan textile industry, although some fiber is still imported. High grade
cotton fiber is exported.
B. Cotton Production
2.02      Cotton was introduced to Kenya, in the Kisumu area, just after 1900.
Despite official support, production rarely exceeded 15,000 t during the
colonial period due to the inability to control pests, climatic and market
variability, and farmer need to ensure a good food (maize) crop before devot-
ing time and energy to cotton production. As these conditions remained
largely unchanged after independence, cotton production continued at the
15,000-16,000 t plateau throughout the 1960s and early 1970s. Promotion
campaigns undertaken by MOA extension agents were largely unsuccessful as a
result of poor organization and weak input distribution systems. In an effort
to respond to the chronic stagnation problems of the cotton sub-sector and
increase production, the Government launched the CDP (paras. 1.01, 2.24) in
1975. The cumulative impact of CDP price and promotional measures has been a
doubling of seed cotton production between 1975 and 1979, from 15,000 t per
year to more than 30,000 t. The decline in production in 1980 is explained by
poor weather conditions and by farmer discouragement resulting from failure to
pay for their cotton. Cotton production in Kenya for the past 10 years is
summarized below:
Crop Year     Seed Cotton         Lint
(tons)         (Bales)
1969/70           15,430         27,752
1971          16,800         30,226
1972          16,130         29,017
1973          16,795         30,210
1974          15,785         28,392
1975          15,865         29,535
1976          17,530         31,532
1977          19,316         34,747
1978          26,060         46,867
1979          34,600         62,240
1980          27,266         49,048



- 13 -
2.03      The cotton growing areas in Kenya are currently Nyanza and Western
Provinces, the Kerio Valley, regions of Central and Eastern Provinces,
several Coastal districts, and a few irrigation schemes at Hola, Taveta and
Bura (see Map 15232); Nyanza and Western Provinces currently account for
about 45% of national cotton production, Eastern and Central Provinces for
nearly 40%, Coast Province (including the irrigation schemes) for about 15%,
and the Kerio Valley for the rest. There has been an important shift in
production areas since 1975, from Nyanza and Western provinces to Eastern and
Central provinces. Cotton is cultivated at altitudes of less than 1,400 m in
areas with warm, dry climates. Cotton is exclusively a smallholder crop and
an estimated 100,000 families (about 3-4% of the rural population) are involved
in its cultivation. Typically one half to one hectare is planted to cotton,
intercropped with the predominant subsistence crop of the area--usually
maize and legumes; pure stands may be planted after the subsistence crop is
well established or harvested. Land preparation is by oxen plough or by
tractor, if the latter is available, and weeding is done by hand or hoe. The
need for insecticide treatment is recognized by cotton growers but the appli-
cation rate is variable; an estimated 10-20% of the cotton crop is sprayed in
Nyanza and Western Provinces, while in the irrigation schemes and the Kerio
Valley, coverage is nearly total. Yields are quite low, averaging about 350
kg/ha, although irrigation schemes record much higher yields, e.g. 2,000 kg/ha
at Hola. The wide variations in yields indicate that there is considerable
potential for yield increases through the introduction of good husbandry
techniques.
2.04      Kenya is principally a producer of medium staple cotton; about 85%
of the crop is graded as first quality cotton (AR) and about 15% as second or
low quality cotton (BR). The key varieties cultivated in Kenya are BPA, which
is a Ugandan-bred variety, and UKA, which was developed in Tanzania. At
prevailing producer prices (para. 2.09) and current yields, it is estimated
that a smallholder currently earns a return of K Sh 600 (US$60) per ha per crop
to all family resources engaged in cotton cultivation. This price level is
very attractive to the producer and has been instrumental in stimulating the
production increases of the last four years. Cotton is the primary source of
cash income for smallholders in most cotton growing areas, as cultivation of
alternative cash crops is limited by climatic conditions and/or market possi-
bilities. Alternatives include maize, sugarcane and tobacco in Western and
Nyanza Provinces, and cashew and sesame in Coastal districts.
2.05      Before 1977, Kenyan cotton production was insufficient to supply
the domestic textile industry. Local mills consumed all domestic second
quality (BR) cotton and, in addition, imported a substantial amount of BR
cotton from Uganda and Tanzania. Some Kenyan first quality (AR) cotton was
exported, but at the same time, high grade cotton with special characteristics
(e.g., suitable for thread manufacture) was imported. Border closures with
Uganda and Tanzania in 1976 and 1977 obliged Kenya to import considerable
amounts of both AR and BR cotton from outside the region to supply the mills.
After the rapid increase in cotton production in the 1975-79 period, domestic
production should have been adequate to supply Kenyan mills; however, in the
eighteen-month period prior to June 1980, 2,400 t of BR-grade lint were imported
because ginning backlogs (equivalent to 3,500 t of BR-grade lint) created a
shortage in the domestic market. About 600 t of special quality cotton lint



- 14 -
for thread manufacture continue to be imported each year; in 1979-80 these
imports had a value of KSh 7.5 million (US$0.75 million). About 4,000 t of
synthetic fiber were imported for textile production in 1979-80 at a total cost
of KSh 52.5 million (US$5.3 million). Raw cotton exports for 1979 were esti-
mated at 1,890 t, valued at KSh 18.5 million (US$1.9 million).
C. Cotton Processing and Marketing
Marketing of Seed Cotton
2.06      CLSMB is responsible for the purchase, transport, and processing of
seed cotton in Kenya. However, in most areas, it has delegated these functions
to cooperative unions and societies and to private ginnery owners; a fee of K
Sh 0.15/kg is paid to the Board's agents for the execution of these activities.
The distinctive features of the buying systems utilized by the private opera-
tors, CLSMB, and the cooperative unions and societies and their respective
zones of operation are as follows:
(a)     In Kitui, Malindi, and Lamu, privately-owned ginneries
operate purchasing centers, which are open between eight and 25 days per
season. Cotton producers are paid cash on delivery and seed cotton is
evacuated immediately to ginneries upon purchase.
(b)     In Embu District (excluding Mwea), Taveta, and Kerio
Valley, CLSMB mobile buying teams purchase seed cotton at agreed buying
centers, spending about four days per season at each center. Farmers are
theoretically paid within two weeks of delivery, after deduction of loan
debits for land preparation and insecticides; however there have been delays
in payment of up to six months. Bagged cotton is stored at the buying centers
and in CLSMB warehouses prior to transport to the ginneries.
(c)     In Western and Nyanza Provinces, Meru, and Mwea, cooperative
unions and societies operate permanent buying centers which are open from
30 to 70 days per season. Payment to producers is often delayed (three to six
months), and storage capacity is strained to its limits; in such cases, growers
often have to store seed cotton in their own homes, rented "duka" stores, or
other makeshift arrangements.
In buying cotton from producers, CLSMB and its agents distinguish between two
grades of cotton (AR and BR), the variety (BPA or UKA), and the place of
origin; in practice, grading of seed cotton on purchase is generally poor.
CLSMB currently owns or rents about 330 warehouses in the principal cotton
growing areas with a total capacity of about 11,000 t of seed cotton. This
storage capacity has proven to be inadequate during the past few years as a
result of increased cotton production, outmoded buying systems in use, and
the low efficiency of ginning facilities (para. 2.07). The efficiency of
transport operations for seed cotton from buying center to ginnery is quite
low due to poor scheduling, the small loads carried, and the short distances
covered; inadequate maintenance of CLSMB and cooperative trucks results in
frequent down time and further constrains the efficient movement of seed
cotton.



- 15 -
Processing
2.07      At present 14 ginneries operate in Kenya and three additional
ginneries --at Bura, Taveta and the Kerio Valley -- are in various stages of
planning (Map IBRD 15232). Total output in 1980 was about 60,000 bales.
Details on ginnery location, ownership, and equipment type are summarized
below:
Province        Ginneries              Type           Ownership      No. of gins
Western         Malaba-Malakisi    double roller        Coop 1/           11
Nambale             double roller       Coop              12
Luanda (Samia)      double roller       Coop             16
Nyanza         Kibos                double roller       CLSMB             6
Kendu Bay           double roller       Coop             12
Homa Bay            double roller       Coop             12
N'dere              double roller       Coop              11
Eastern &      Kitui                double roller       Private          16
Central      Mwea                 double roller       CLSMB            20
Meru                double roller       CLSMB/Coop       20
Makueni             double roller       CLSMB            20
Coast          Lamu                 single roller       Private          11
Malindi             single roller       Private          35
Hola                single roller       CLSMB            10
1/   Coop refers to cooperative unions or societies responsible for ginnery
management.
The gins in use date back to the 1930s and total rated capacity is estimated
at 7,300 t of seed cotton per month. With this installed capacity, present
production should be ginnable in four months. However, due to lack of spare
parts, maintenance and repairs, poor organization of work, and generally
poor management at the CLSMB- and cooperative-owned ginneries (particularly
the latter), not one of these ginneries achieved half of its rated capacity in
1978/79. The privately-owned ginneries are properly maintained and function
well. As a result of the low efficiency rates at the majority of the gin-
neries, major ginning backlogs have developed and storage facilities at buying
centers have become overloaded. This in turn has delayed sales of lint and
seeds and payments to producers and intermediaries.
Marketing of Cotton Lint and Seed
2.08      CLSMB is solely responsible for marketing cotton lint and seed
in Kenya. In selling lint from the ginneries, CLSMB groups bales in lots
of 50 and takes samples from each lot to permit evaluation of lint quality
against standard samples; in practice, lots are extremely heterogeneous due to



- 16 -
poor grading, aandling, and quality control. Prior to 1979, when cotton lint
was sold at auction, buyers took delivery ex-ginnery and were responsible for
providing their own transportation. Under the new marketing and pricing
regime (para. 2.09), CLSMB is responsible for the transport of lint to storage
facilities (where buyers take delivery) or to transit points for export; the
Board uses private contractors to supplement its own truck fleet. Storage
facilities for cotton lint are supplied by the CLSMB. The Board owns two
warehouses in Mombasa and rents two others in Kisumu and Thika; total storage
capacity is about 13,700 bales of lint. Because of the protective regime,
Kenyan textile mills have been purchasing virtually all their lint on the
domestic market (para. 2.10). In marketing cotton seed, CLSMB sets aside an
amount sufficient to cover planting needs for the next year before selling
seed to the local oil-seed industry; buyers take delivery of the seed ex-
ginnery and are responsible for their own transport arrangements.
Pricing
2.09      Proposals on the prices for seed cotton are prepared annually by
CLSMB. These proposals are analyzed in the light of world and local market
conditions by MOA in consultation with the Ministries of Planning and Finance.
Recommendations are then made to the Cabinet which sets the price levels.
Since the launching of the CDP (para. 2.24) Government has used price as an
incentive to stimulate cotton production and producer prices fol seed cotton
have particularly encouraged smallholder producers. Until the most recent
devaluation, prices had averaged about 75% of export parity in Kenya shillings
at the official rate of exchange. Seed cotton prices were most recently
revised in December 1981 when the prices for AR and BR varieties were
increased by about 6%, i.e. to KSh 3.80/kg and 1.85/kg respectively. Seed
for planting is distributed free by MOA's extension service; seed for local
processing continues to be sold at auction. CLSMB sets the price of cotton
lint for the local market at levels intended to cover its costs. Lint for
export continues to be sold at auction. Buyers sample the quality of their
purchase; if it fails to meet standards, they demand a rebate. CLSMB never
finds out, however, how many lots might have exceeded standards because its
grading is inadequate.  Prices realized for cotton lint and cotton seed in
recent years are presented below.
---------Lint----------  ----------Seed---------
-KSh/kg-
AR      AR Home BR Home  AR       AR Home BR Home
Export  Market  Market   Export  Market  Market
Nov. 1976-Oct.1977    15.63   14.90   11.50    None    1.10    0.63
Nov. 1977-June 1978   14.53   13.98   10.24    None    1.01    0.55
July 1978-June 1979   12.85   12.77    9.46    0.88    0.92    0.43
July 1979-Feb. 1980   12.70   14.52   12.00    none    1.00    0.51
July 1980-May 1981    14.61   15.15   12.25    none    1.10    0.44



- 17 -
The premium of some 20 to 30% paid for lint over the world market price from
1979 until the most recent devaluation corresponded roughly to the estimated
overvaluation of the Kenya shilling and resulted in lint prices for Kenya's
textile mills that have been equitable and close to the economic optimum. As
a result of the most recent devaluation Kenyan lint prices are expected to
become more in line with international levels.
Textile Industry
2.10      There are presently 29 textile mills operating in Kenya with an
installed anaual weaving and knitting capacity (excluding blanket-making) of
83 million m . The domestic textile mills furnish the bulk of national
cloth consumption (75% in 1977), and employ an estimated 19,000 people or
one-sixth of the industrial work force. The Kenyan Government has protected
the domestic textile industry by permitting imports only in cases where the
Kenyan mills do not make the product or cannot meet the demand and by levying
duties of 60% on textiles and 100% on clothing. Despite these trade barriers,
the competitive position of Kenyan textile mills has deteriorated due to the
loss of the Ugandan and Tanzanian textile markets and the obligation to
purchase local cotton at higher than world market price equivalents. In
addition, considerable but undocumented quantities of illegal textile imports
find their way onto the local market each year2  There are plans to expand
weaving and knitting capacity to 105 million m by 1983, although it is
estimated that most textile mills are operating below the 85% capacity
achieved in 1977.
Oil-Seed Industry
2.11      Kenya's oil-seed-crushing capacity far surpasses the amount of seed
available, and for practical purposes, there is unlimited demand for cottonseed
oil and cake. Except for 2,100 t in 1978/79, the local market has purchased
all of the available domestic seed supply. Oilseed-crushing plants and soap
factories attached to ginneries run only a few months a year and are
constrained by seed availability, not by demand. Kenya is far from self-
sufficient in vegetable oil and imports large quantities (50,000 t in 1978) of
palm oil. Cake is readily saleable for animal feed, of which there are
several local manufacturers.
1/   Source:  CLSMB



- 18 -
D. Government Services to the Cotton Sub-Sector
2.12      The principal Government institution operating in the cotton sub-
sector is CLSMB. The cooperative unions and societies in the cotton growing
areas are also key actors in cotton marketing and processing operations. MOA
executes research activities and operates the extension service in the cotton
growing areas (para. 1.12); MOA, through CLSMB, also distributes inputs to
cotton farmers. In addition to credit extended by CLSMB, cotton farmers have
access to the sources of agricultural credit described in paras. 1.19-1.26.
The Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
2.13      CLSMB was created in 1955 to serve as the Government's main instru-
ment for intervention in the cotton sector. The Board consists of its Chair-
man, appointed by the President, the Director of Agriculture, the Commissioner
for Cooperative Development and 10 members appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture. CLSMB's head office is in Nairobi and it has four departments:
(i) production; (ii) marketing; (iii) technical services; and (iv) accounts
and administration. CLSMB also operates five ginneries, eight branches, and
four sub-branches in the key cotton ginning and marketing areas. The staff in
the branches and sub-branches provide technical support to ginnery managers
and monitor ginning operations and lint quality. The Board currently employs
about 300 people, 20% of whom are based in headquarters, with the remainder in
field offices in the principal cotton growing areas.
2.14      CLSMB Operations.  The principal activities of CLSMB comprise the
purchase of the seed cotton crop, processing of seed cotton, and sale of
cotton lint and seed (paras. 2.06-2.08); in areas where CLSMB does not own the
ginneries, it contracts the buying and ginning of cotton to local ginnery
owners. In addition to its marketing and processing functions, CLSMB has
assumed some input supply and credit responsibilities for the sub-sector since
1976. CLSMB channels credit extended by CBK through cooperative societies and
MOA's extension service to cotton farmers; this credit finances land prepara-
tion, crop protection chemicals, and sprayers. Although CLSMB pays interest
to CBK on these loans, no interest is charged to farmers. The Board also
makes loans to cooperative unions and societies (again onlending funds from
CBK) to provide working capital for their ginning operations and to finance
ginning materials and spare parts. Loan recovery has been a serious problem,
and as of July 1980 CLSMB had K Sh 50 million (US$5.0 million) in loans
outstanding, evenly divided between the loans to farmers and loans to unions.
To correct this situation, it has been agreed that loan payments will gradually
be deducted from the commissions due to the cooperative societies for their
marketing and processing activities. In this way, CLSMB is expected to recover
in full, before June 30, 1983, outstanding loans for ginneries working capital
and spare parts (about K Sh 25.0 million, or US$2.5 million). With respect
to outstanding input and land preparation loans to cotton farmers (K Sh 25.0
million or US$2.5 million), about 50% is expected to be recovered up to
June 30 1983. These cost recovery arrangements are satisfactory.



- 19 -
2.15      Financial Performance.  CLSMB finances are in serious straits.  The
principal problem facing the Board is that the cost of producing lint and
cotton seed exceeds the selling price which can be obtained; as a result,
CLSMB has been incurring losses on its operations at least since 1977.
Production costs have increased rapidly in recent years because of inefficien-
cies in ginning operations, CLSMB assumption of lint transport operations, and
revision of producer prices to favor the farmers without paying sufficient
attention to their impact on lint prices and competitiveness in the world
market (para 2.09).  Despite the Government's efforts to set lint prices at
levels that would allow CLSMB to cover its costs, the recent increases in
cotton production have expanded CLSMB's financial obligations as sole pur-
chaser of cotton in Kenya, and its deficit has increased. Total turnover in
1979/80 amounted to K Sh 153.2 million (US$15.3 million) which represented a
45% increase over the previous 12-month period. During the same time period
CLSMB deficits increased from K Sh 11.2 million (US$1.1 million) to K Sh 25.9
million (US$2.6 million). CLSMB has financed its operations by borrowing from
the private and public banking sectors; borrowings totalled K Sh 137.0 million
(US$13.7 million) in 1980/81, of which K Sh 80.0 million (US$8.0 million)
consisted of commercial bank overdrafts (covered by Treasury letters of
awareness) and K Sh 57.0 million (US$5.7 million) were CBK loans (all overdue).
An analysis of CLSMB's cash flow for 1982/83 to 1986/87, in a without Project
situation, indicates that the institution will continue to lose money; the
cumulative deficit would increase from K Sh 199.1 million (US$19.9 million) to
K Sh 420.2 million (US$42.0 million). The Board's 1981/82 working capital
needs have been estimated at about K Sh 160 million (US$16.0 million) to cover
borrowings from commercial banks and CBK now in use (K Sh 137.0 million),
further overdraft needs (K Sh 14.0 million) and funds tied under the Cotton
Price Assistance Fund 1/ (K Sh 7.0 million). Borrowings in use at July 1,
1981, were allocated as follows:
1/   The Cotton Price Assistance Fund, created in 1955, consists of monies
provided by Parliament and income accumulating on CLSMB investments. The
Fund was established to receive CLSMB profits on marketing operations
but in fact has only been used to absorb Board marketing losses.



- 20 -
---K Sh million----
Cotton:
- Stocks                                      62.0
- Debtors                                     15.0
77.0
Farm Inputs:
- Stocks                                       1.0
- Debtors                                     25.0
26.0
Agency Inputs:
- Stocks                                       4.0
- Debtors                                     15.0
19.0
Other (fixed assets, net of
reserves, including MOA loans
and margin within facilities)                 15.0
Total                                        137.0
CLSMB's financial situation is expected to remain critical in the years to
come if the inefficiencies in the processing and marketing system are not
resolved and other underlying causes of its financial deficits are not
addressed. An agreement is under negotiation to resolve the short-term
financing problems of the Board (para 3.17) and a central objective of the
proposed Project would be to address the broader management problems.
2.16      Accounts.  CLSMB has installed a new accounting system which
constitutes an effective management information system. The 1979/80 accounts
have been audited and a detailed budget for 1980/81 was prepared based
on updated costs and sales projections. Under this budget, total sales
turnover was K Sh 216.0 million (US$21.6 million) with a gross margin of
K Sh 25.0 million (US$2.5 million) or 12%. Allowing for miscellaneous income
and general administrative expenses, an operating deficit of K Sh 1.7 million
(US$170,000) was forecast for 1980/81. Table 1 summarizes CLSMB balance
sheets.
2.17      Assessment of CLSMB Operations.  The performance of the Cotton
Board during the past few years has been mixed. On the positive side, CLSMB
has installed a new accounting system which is proving to be an effective
management tool, and the Board has played a role in the rapid expansion of
cotton cultivation in some areas of Kenya. However, the Board's performance
with marketing and processing operations has been seriously constrained by
management deficiencies and by the lack of adequate trained personnel. In
particular, coordination between departments is poor and requires the personal
involvement of the Managing Director. Support staff are inadequate to meet
CLSMB's operational needs and all departments have a number of important
vacancies. Training activities are virtually absent, with the exception of an
on-the-job program for junior accountants. With the increase in seed cotton
production, CLSMB's financial and administrative responsibilities are growing



- 21 -
and resolution of its management problems is essential to the efficient
functioning of the cotton subsector. The proposed Project would address
not only management constraints but also training problems which are
currently affecting CLSMB operations.
Cooperative Unions and Societies
2.18      There are currently about 100 cooperative societies operating in the
cotton growing areas of which about 40 are directly involved with cotton
production, marketing and processing. Six cooperative unions and one society
own and operate ginneries (para. 2.07); the estimated 40 member cooperative
societies are also involved in a range of input supply, credit, transport and
marketing activities involving cotton. No data are available on membership of
cooperatives but a high proportion of farmers are probably affected by those
organizations. Largely due to management weakness and unattractive employment
conditions, these unions and societies are unable, in general, to employ and
retain suitable staff to manage their increasingly diverse operations effec-
tively. Consequently, cotton cooperative enterprises, in particular the
ginneries, are currently in a state of financial and technical disarray. The
long-term objective of Government policy toward the cotton cooperatives is
that they be strengthened and developed so that they can take over the
operation and management of all cotton ginneries, and an important aim of
the proposed Projec-t would be to support this effort.
Cotton Research
2.19      Prior to 1975, cotton research in Kenya was carried out by the
Cotton Research Corporation working in close cooperation with MOA, the
National Irrigation Board at Hola, and the National Agricultural Labora-
tories. The Cotton Research Corporation was disbanded in 1975, and the
cotton research program came to a virtual standstill; research activities
were only resumed in 1977/78 (para. 2.20). Cotton research is currently
being undertaken by MOA staff at three research stations (Tebere, Kibos,
Msabaha) and one sub-station (Alupe); cotton research on the Hola Irrigation
Scheme is carried out by the National Irrigation Board, advised by the Dutch
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The staffing situation at MOA cotton research
stations is as follows:
Discipline   Tebere   Kibos   Alupe   Msabaha   Post Graduate Training   Total
Breeding         2       1                                       -  -           3
Agronomy         2       -        1        -                   2                5
Entomology       1       2        -        1                   1                5
The technical staff allocated to cotton research is in reasonable proportion
to the importance of the crop in the economy, and the allocation between
disciplines is satisfactory.
2.20      The MOA cotton research program is currently focussing on breeding
trials, cultivation techniques, and plant protection measures. Breeding work
is mainly concerned with testing a collection of about 100 imported varieties
for their suitability for conditions in Kenya. This collection includes an
important group of early maturing varieties, in which some have shorter lint
and some have a better ginning percentage than the present commercial



- 22 -
varieties. The agronomy program includes a variety of trials to determine
optimum spacing, beneficial intercropping patterns, supplementary irrigation
regimes, and the impact of different fertilizer combinations. The entomology
section has a comprehensive program covering most aspects of plant protection.
Both LV and ULV formulations are being tested in field trials and in observa-
tion plots in farmers' fields. The cost of applying different insecticides is
also being compared. The research program is well designed to meet the
practical problems of the crop, but it is unlikely that reliable results will
be available for at least a year.
Input Distribution
2.21      MOA is responsible for supplying the seeds, insecticides and
sprayers, and land preparation services for each cotton campaign. CLSMB, as
MOA's representative in the cotton sub-sector, extends these inputs to the
producers on credit (para. 2.14), except for seeds, which are provided free.
Management of the distribution system has been weak and characterized by
delays in decision-making on MOA's part; consequently, inputs have not reached
producers in a timely manner. Physical and financial constraints have also
hampered distribution efforts; for instance, MOA has been unable to satisfy
all applications for land preparation services due to the shortage of tractors
in cotton growing areas. Similarly, shortages of spray pumps and spray
chemicals have interfered with recommended spray schedules. This often
happens because cooperative societies are short of funds and therefore are
unable to carry a stock of sprayers and ULV and LV sprays; in some cases
producers may have access to spray chemicals but no sprayer or to a sprayer
but not to the correct chemical formula. Neglect of proper multiplication
measures has resulted in the distribution of seed that is considerably
degenerated from the basic varieties.
E. Development Constraints and Potential
2.22      Constraints.  Cotton production in Kenya could be considerably
increased during the next few decades, but before this potential can be
realized, a number of factors currently constraining production, marketing and
processing operations must be addressed. The principal constraints on the
production side consist of weaknesses in the input distribution system - such
as shortage of land preparation services, poor quality of varietal seed
distributed by CLSMB, and unavailability of chemical preparations -- and poor
quality of extension advice provided to cotton producers. The fundamental
constraint affecting processing and marketing activities is deficient ginnery
management, resulting in inefficient ginning operations, congested storage
facilities, deterioration of seed cotton quality, and high processing costs;
delays in processing the cotton crop also lead to delays in payment to pro-
ducers, discouraging production. The bottlenecks in the buying, storage, and
processing systems identified above are aggravated by the poor organization of
transport services available to the sub-sector.
2.23      Potential.  If the production, marketing, and processing constraints
identified above are removed, it was estimated at appraisal that the main



- 23 -
cotton areas in Kenya could almost triple their output between 1980 and 1990,
producing about 91,000 t of seed cotton or the equivalent of 164,000 bales of
lint; the area planted with cotton would expand by 50% to support this increased
output. Should marketing and processing constraints alone be eliminated and
provision of production support services continue as at present, production
could double during the same time period, reaching a level of 62,000 t of
seed cotton or about 111,000 bales of lint; this estimate assumes that the
area planted to cotton would increase by 30%. At this more modest level of
production, imports of BR cotton are projected to increase (10,700 bales by
1990) but self-sufficiency in AR-cotton should be achieved by about 1984/85.
2.24      Government Objectives and Strategy.  The Government has put great
emphasis on achieving self-sufficiency in cotton production since 1975, when
it established the CDP (para. 1.01). During the past four years, the CDP has
concentrated on increasing incentives to cultivate cotton and on removing
production constraints. Key elements in this strategy have included: (a)
raising producer prices by 80% between 1975 and 1979; (b) supplying seed for
planting free of charge; and (c) providing tractor plowing and pesticides to
cotton producers on interest-free credit (para 2.09 and 2.14). Under the
stimulus of these policies, cotton production doubled between 1975 and 1979.
The goal of increasing cotton production to achieve self-sufficiency for
domestic textile needs has been reaffirmed in the 1979-83 Development Plan
and a production target of 64,000 t of seed cotton (equivalent to 115,000
bales of lint) has been set for 1984/85. To achieve this target the Govern-
ment intends to implement a strategy which gives equal attention to the
resolution of production and post-harvesting constraints. The Cotton
Processing and Marketing Project is one element in this strategy and would
contribute to the development of the cotton sub-sector by addressing the key
problems affecting the purchase, transportation, storage, and ginning of
cotton.  To address the sub-sector s production constraints, the Government
has drafted a supplemental action program which would extend input credit to
cotton producers for tractor plowing and insecticides. MOA is now reviewing
how the credit program would be administered, which institutions would be
involved, terms and conditions of on-lending, and how to improve on the poor
loan recovery record in the sub-sector. This draft program may serve as
the basis for a future cotton development project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      Kenya's cotton marketing and processing system cannot handle
present production, and it is costly and inefficient, principally for three
reasons: (a) systems for buying cotton from farmers and moving it to gins
have not kept pace with expansion of production and, particularly in western
Kenya, are highly inefficient; (b) ginneries owned by cooperatives and by
CLSMB are poorly managed and maintained; and (c) technical skills of those who
manage the existing operations are inadequate (Chapter II). The problems



- 24 -
caused by these deficiencies are likely to be compounded by expected future
production increases if appropriate action is not taken. The proposed Project
would help to improve the post-harvest handling of cotton by rehabilitating
and expanding cotton ginning, improving the cotton marketing system, and
strengthening the technical and financial management of the principal part-
icipating institutions. It figures as a priority project in the Government's
development plan.
3.02      Over a four and a half year period, Project activities would include:
(i) improvement of seed cotton buying systems;
(ii)  support for transport operations for seed cotton marketing;
(iii) development of storage facilities for seed cotton;
(iv) rehabilitation atAd expansion of cooperative and CLSMB
ginning facilities;
(v) provision of technical assistance, audit, legal and management
services, and training; and
(vi)  strengthening of CLSMB management, including provision of adequate
working capital for its operations, and strengthening of staff and
operations.
3.03      Project implementation would mainly involve CLSMB (para. 2.13) the
cooperative unions and societies which operate cotton ginneries, and CBK.
A Project Coordinating/Steering Committee (PCSC) would be established to
ensure effective planning and control of Project activities (para. 4.02).
Organization and management arrangements are described in Chapter IV.
B. Detailed Features
Cotton Buying
3.04      Buying cotton from farmers requires a system different from that for
other crops because: (a) cotton is produced entirely for sale and the buyer/
ginner is a monopolist; (b) cotton is bulky and light, hard to package, hard
to store, and hard to transport; and (c) quality of the final products (lint
and cottonseed) deteriorates unless the seed cotton is ginned within four to
six months of harvest. The current system of cotton buying in Kenya varies
widely from ginnery to ginnery (para. 2.06). Present practice is most satis-
factory where buying is done by private ginneries, least satisfactory at the
cooperative ginneries in western Kenya. CLSMB mobile buying teams operate in
areas where the cooperative movement is judged to be too weak to undertake
marketing functions. Key problems in CLSMB and cooperative buying operations
include delays in payment to producers, inadequate storage at buying centers,
and high unit costs due to an extended buying season and serious over-staff-
ing of centers.



- 25 -
3.05      Simple modifications to the present buying system would be intro-
duced under the Project to redress these bottlenecks and inefficiencies.
Thirty-six mobile teams would be established, each with a sub-team for
buying and another for payment. Each buying team would be equipped with a
pick-up, scales that print the weight on a ticket, a calculator, and canvas
packing cloths (1/4 m ) to permit bulk handling and to facilitate inspection.
The paying sub-team would be equipped with a calculator. Buying teams would
visit buying centers for two to four days per season according to a schedule
established well before the buying season begins; scheduling would be arranged
to encourage timely planting and harvesting. Average purchase per team per
day would be between 10 to 15 t; the last day of the visit would be reserved
for buying BR-quality cotton. The packing cloths utilized by the buying teams
would hold 50 to 60 kg of seed cotton each and would have ties at the corners
to permit gathering into a bundle and dumping into a truck.
3.06      The above system would reduce handling costs by one third and would
improve lint quality.  Payments would be made in ssh within two weeks of the
farmers delivery of the cotton and after deductions for debt service had been
made; this payment procedure is known as the Member's Transaction/Payment
Cotton System (MT) and is already being fully and efficiently utilized in some
cotton growing areas of Kenya.
3.07      Project investment cost estimates include the investment and operat-
ing costs of the 36 mobile teams, each comprising a buying sub-team and a
payment sub-team. Total base costs are estimated at K Sh 33.6 million (US$3.4
million).
Cotton Transport
3.08      Seed cotton is transported from buying centers to ginneries by
truck, which may be owned by CLSMB, cooperatives, or private contractors on
hire to these organizations. As trucks owned by cooperatives are frequently
not in operating condition and are not used exclusively for transporting
cotton, most transport of seed cotton to ginnery is handled by CLSMB trucks or
contracted out. The efficiency of the services rendered is quite low (para.
2.06). Furthermore, costs are quite high as CLSMB has increasingly been
forced to pay private contractors on a daily-rate basis (K Sh 800/day) rather
than on a ton-km basis, (K Sh 1.30/t/km) because of the short distances and
small loads involved. In the long-term, it would be more cost effective for
CLSMB to take responsibility for organizing transport of seed cotton; cotton
seed and lint could be sold ex-ginnery with transport being organized by
the purchaser. The transport of lint, and cotton seed itself should generally
be contracted to private truckers. In the short-term, however, the present
disorganization of the ginneries coupled with poor backward linkages to the
buying and transport system would make transport of seed cotton to the
ginneries by private truck prohibitively expensive, as waiting time at buying
centers and ginneries would discourage private truckers from carrying out
these tasks at affordable prices. Therefore, CLSMB would, during the Project
period, be responsible for organizing and coordinating transport of seed
cotton from buying centers to ginneries either in its own trucks or in those
owned by cooperatives or by private truckers. Cotton inputs would be delivered
to buying centers when collecting seed cotton, and seed cotton transport would
progressively shift to bulk handling.



- 26 -
3.09      To support the reorganization of the transport services during this
interim period and to facilitate the transition to the new buying system, the
Project includes provision for the purchase of transport vehicles and equip-
ment as well as the operating costs associated with these vehicles. Specific
investment items include 45 7-1/2 ton trucks (39 are expected to be bought
for CLSMB and six for the cooperatives), four 15 ton trucks with trailers (for
CLSMB), and 17 two-way radios; the latter would permit CLSMB's Operations
Manager to keep in touch with ginnery operations and to improve truck schedul-
ing. Total estimated base costs for these investment and operating costs are
K Sh 21.6 million (US$2.2 million). To aid CLSMB in improving its ability to
schedule seed cotton evacuation and to service its trucks, technical assistance
would be provided under the Project (para. 3.15). The trucks financed under
the Project and the responsibility for their operation would gradually be
transferred from CLSMB to the cooperatives once cooperatives had acquired the
necessary expertise (para. 4.07). By 1986 or perhaps earlier, backlogs at
ginneries would have been liquidated and cotton buying should be much better
organized. At that time, private carriers should increase their participation
in transport of seed cotton under the supervision of cooperative ginnery
managers, and appropriate arrangements would be made for the transfer of CLSMB
equipment. Assurances obtained during negotiations that the responsibility
for cotton transport would be gradually transferred to cooperatives or arrange-
ments would be made for handling by private transporters to the extent neces-
sary, following consultation with IDA, no later than January 1, 1986.
Cotton Storage
3.10      Storage of both seed cotton and cotton lint poses considerable
problems under current marketing conditions in Kenya. Current storage capacity
for seed cotton is insufficient because ginning backlogs have delayed move-
ment of the cotton crop from buying centers to the ginneries (para. 2.07).
Once processed, cotton lint destined for local manufacturers poses a storage
problem because Kenyan textile mills, on average, have storage facilities
sufficient for at most one month's consumption; as production for domestic
consumption is expected to rise, this problem will intensify over time if not
addressed immediately. The improved system of seed cotton buying and trans-
port to be implemented by CLSMB and the cooperatives under the Project should
eventually eliminate the need for storing seed cotton at buying centers.
However, during the transitional years when improvements in buying, transport
and ginning are to be made, seed cotton will continue to be stored at buying
centers which have inaderuate facilities. For these reasons, some 127
village stores (15,000 e ) belonging to CLSMB would be repaired and additional
village stores (3,500 m ) would be constructed in locations of greatest need.
Since these storehouses would be needed for cotton for only a few years,
their design would be such that the cotton cooperatives could use them for
other purposes, such as input storage, once the proposed system of buying,
transporting, and ginning cotton is operating efficiently.
3.11      Based on estimates of seed cotton production and lint exports over
the next five years, it is recommended that warehouse capacity for cotton lint
be expanded to accommodate five-months' supply to the mills. In addition to



- 27 -
lint storage capacity, warehousing is also needed for storage of parts, for
grading, and for a "quick link" shop. Ta+ing into account current warehousing
capacity, an estimated additional 6,850 m of storage space is needed. The
Project includes provisions for the construction of this additional warehous-
ing capacity, distributed as follows:
Additional
Use/Location                   Capa5ity
(in)
1. Lint Storage
Kisumu                                 700
Eldoret                              1,100
Thika                                2,500
Mombasa                              1,100
5,400
2. Lint Grading
Thika                                  450
3. Ginnery Spare Parts, etc.
Thika                                1.000
Total       6,850
The warehouses would be owned and operated by CLSMB.  Funds would also be
provided for the repair of CLSMB's existing Mombasa warehouse, the construc-
tion of an additional connection to the rail line, and miscellaneous vehicles,
forklift trucks, and other equipment. The incremental operating costs of the
Thika warehouse are also included in Project cost estimates. Total estimated
cost for both seed cotton and cotton lint storage facilities and their asso-
ciated operating costs amount to K Sh 32.9 million (US$3.3 million).
Ginning
3.12      Ginneries operated by CLSMB and cooperative unions and societies
suffer from inefficient ginning operations and from deficiencies in management
(para. 2.07). The technology in use dates to the 1930s, and insufficient
funds are allocated for maintenance and equipment renewal. The ginnery
buildings vary widely, with the older ginneries generally lacking drainage,
fencing and improved grounds. Given the range of problems affecting ginnery
operations, any approach to improving the present cotton ginning situation
must address both capacity needs and physical facilities, and the need to
improve ginnery management. Operations of the privately-owned ginneries
(Lamu, Malindi, Kitui) do not require modification or support at this stage.



- 28 -
3.13      Ginning capacity must be expanded if it is to process the 50-60,000 t
of seed cotton production anticipated in the late 1980s (para. 2.23). This
expansion would be accomplished through the rehabilitation and expansion of
existing ginneries and the construction of new ginneries in the key cotton
producing areas. The Hola, Mwea, Meru and Makueni ginneries, which were built
after 1970, require only improvement works. Both rehabilitation and expansion
works would be undertaken at Malaba-Malakisi, Nambale, Luanda, Ndere, and
Homa Bay, which are older vintage ginneries. Kendu Bay has a two-level
building which is intrinsically inefficient and cannot be expanded; it would
be replaced with a new ginnery. A new ginnery has been constructed in the
Kerio Valley with Government financing.
3.14      The model for rehabilitation or expansion of ginneries is a plant
with 20 double roller gins, enough storage to accommodate the proposed buying-
transport system (involving bulk handling and immediate evacuation to the
ginnery), a weighing platform, a suction system to handle incoming seed
cotton, cottonseed and lint, and new power plants. Present ginnery facilities
are summarized in para. 2.07. Planned capacity of ginneries in 1985/86
following implementation of the Project rehabilitation, expansion and con-
struction program is summarized below:
Province      Ginneries                 Type         Ownership   No. of gins
Western       Malaba-Malakisi       double roller    Coop              20
Nambale              double roller    Coop              20
Tuanda (Samia)       double roller    Coop              20
Kibos                double roller    CLSMB              6
Nyanza        Kendu Bay
(new ginnery)       double roller    Coop              20
Homa Bay             double roller    Coop              18
N'dere               double roller    Coop              18
Eastern &     Kitui                 double roller    Private           16
Central       Mwea                  double roller    CLSMB             20
Meru                 double roller,   Coop              20
saw gin                             5
Makueni              double roller    Coop              20
Coast         Lamu                  single roller    Private           11
Malindi              single roller    Private           35
Hola                 double roller    Coop              10
Bura 1/              saw gin           NIB             n.a.
Rift Valley   Kerio Valley         double roller    Coop              20
1/  Tkxe new Bura ginnery is included in the Bura Irrigation Project; it would
be operated by the National Irrigation Board.



- 29 -
Total costs for the investment items included in the rehabilitation, expansion,
and construction program and for incremental operating costs of new gins are
estimated at K Sh 78.9 million (US$7.9 million). In addition to these invest-
ments in ginnery capacity, the Project would include development of training
facilities and programs to improve CLSMB and cooperative management capabili-
ties (para. 4.12). CLSMB would introduce a third grade of cotton to the
present AR/BR system. At present, between 6 and 19% of seed cotton is graded
BR, depending on the year, the rest being graded as AR; the bulk of AR cotton,
however, is of extremely variable quality. Therefore, introduction of a lower
grade is proposed for seed cotton that is not of AR standard but which is not
so poor as to be graded BR. This refinement of the grading system should make
it easier for CLSMB to constitute homogeneous lots of lint and to improve
quality substantially.
Technical Assistance, Audit, Legal and Management Services and Training
3.15      In order to strengthen CLSMB management and support the reorganiza-
tion of CLSMB in line with the recommendations of the Ndegwa Report (paras.
1.16, 1.17 and Chapter IV), technical assistance would be provided for CLSMB
operations. Five specialists would be provided, three as heads of the
Technical Services, Operations and Finance Departments (each for 42 manmonths),
and two to head the Lint and Cottonseed Marketing Division and the Monitoring
and Evaluation Division (each for 42 manmonths). In addition, CLSMB would
establish a Legal and Administration division. Technical assistance would
also be provided to strengthen CBK's capacity to support and monitor partici-
pating cooperatives and unions and to aid in monitoring CLSMB's financial
condition. Provision is made for employment by CBK of a senior financial
analyst for 42 manmonths, as head of a team of financial analysts. Vehicles
and operating costs in support of technical assistance staff described above
would be provided under the Project. In addition, a total of eight manmonths
of consultants' services would be provided to CLSMB and CBK to assist in the
implementation and evaluation of the proposed Project. Proposals for the use
of these services would be included in the Project Annual Work Programs (para.
4.11). Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. It is a
condition of Credit effectiveness that the heads of the Technical Services,
and Finance Department of CLSMB and the CBK senior financial analyst be
employed and in post. In addition, the Project includes provisions for
strengthening of MOCD's audit capacity through establishment of special teams
to serve the principal cooperative unions involved in Project activities, for
a comprehensive management audit of participating unions, and for a mid-term
review of their status (para. 4.07 and 4.08). Cost of these activities is
estimated at K Sh. 40.5 million (US$4.1 million).
3.16      Training provisions under the Project would include construction of
a training center at Mwea, in-service courses and overseas training programs,
and technical assistance for programming and evaluation of training activities
(para. 4.12). Total cost is estimated at K Sh 5.4 million (US$540,000).



- 30 -
CLSMB Working Capital
3.17      An important Project objective would be to improve the management,
operations, and facilities of CLSMB, and thus to assist in alleviating its
critical financial problems. Specific steps need to be taken, however, prior
to Project implementation to clarify the Board's present financial situation
and to ensure that its funding needs would be met in the future. An
analysis of CLSMB's current financial position indicates that it requires
a loan of about K Sh 160 million (US$16.0 million) (para 2.15). Two alter-
native means of providing CLSMB with financial support to cover its financing
needs have been explored: (i) using Government financing sources, e.g. Sugar
and Cereals Finance Corporation, or (ii) establishing renewable commercial
borrowings under cover of a Government Guarantee. The Treasury has ruled out
alternative (i) in view of heavy demands by a new seasonal credit scheme and
food import requirements. Therefore, an agreement has been worked out
by a consortium of banks to meet the immediate financial requirements of the
Cotton Board. This facility would take the form of a three-year, renewable,
revolving line of credit, initially carrying interest at 14%, under cover
of a Government guarantee. It would be administered jointly by CBK and the
First National Bank of Chicago. Cabinet has approved the issuance of the
Government's guarantee of CLSMB's financial agreement with the consortium;
parliamentary confirmation is pending and will be obtained before credit
signing. Execution of the agreement providing for the revolving line of
credit is a condition of Credit effectiveness. The Credit agreement
contains a cross-default clause.
3.18      As a result of Project supported activities, seed cotton and lint
production would be expected to increase. To cover the cost of these in-
cremental production increases during the first three years of Project imple-
mentation, Project cost estimates include CLSMB incremental working capital
requirements amounting to about K Sh 39 million (US$3.9 million). Funds to be
provided for the incremental working capital would supplement the revolving
line of credit described above (para 3.17). CLSMB's financial position is
described in more detail in paras 5.09-10.
C. Cost Estimates
3.19      Total Project costs during the four and a half year investment
period, inclusive of taxes, are estimated at K Sh 334.4 million (US$33.4 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange component of 42% or K Sh 140.60 million (US$14.0
million). Import taxes and duties on goods and services not eligible for
exemption from customs plus taxes and duties on fuel and other operating
costs amount to K Sh 41.0 million (US$4.1 million), or 12% of total costs.
Project cost net of taxes amounts to K Sh 293.4 million (US$29.3 million).
Detailed cost estimates are presented in Table 2 and are summarized below:



- 31 -
Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total         %
Component             -----K Sh million ------       ---------US$-000-------    Base Cost
Cotton Buying         22.7       10.9      33.6      2,300    1,100      3,400      13.1
Transport              6.9       14.7      21.6        700    1,500      2,200       8.4
Storage               18.9       14.0      32.9      1,900    1,400      3,300      12.6
Ginning               35.2       52.3      87.5      3,500    5,200      8,700      33.4
Technical Assistance
& Training          26.0       20.0      46.0      2,600    2,000      4,600      17.6
CLSMB Incremental
Working Capital       39.0         -       39.0      3,900      -        3,900      14.9
Total Base Costs    148.7       111.9     260.6    14,900   11,200    26,100    100.0
Contingencies:
Physical            14.4        9.2      23.6      1,500       800     2,300       6.9
Price               30.7       19.5      50.2      3,000    2,000      5,000      15.0
Sub-Total
Contingencies       45.1      28.7       73.8      4,500    2,800      7,300      21.9
Total Project Costs 193.8       140.6     334.4    19,400   14,000    33,400
3.20      Cost estimates are based on end 1981 prices.  A physical contingency
of 10% was applied to all Project costs, excluding technical assistance, to
represent a measure of uncertainty about the quantities required. Expected
local and international price increases were applied on baseline costs plus
physical contingencies, corresponding to the yearly rates shown below (%):
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Local Costs        15.0    9.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Foreign Costs       8.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    6.0
The costs of technical assistance personnel (including salary, allowances and
international travel) average US$8,000 per staff-month; about 21 staff-years
would be required. The average consultants staff-month cost, inclusive of
salaries, international travel and subsistence, would be about US$7,700 (eight
staff-months).



- 32 -
D. Financing
3.21      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
K Sh      US$        %
----million----
Government of Kenya                        73.3        7.3     25
IDA                                       220.1      22.0      75
Total Cost, Net of Taxes and Duties    293.4         29.3    100
Taxes and Duties                           41.0       4.1
Total Project Cost                        334.4      33.4
3.22      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 18.7 million (US$22.0 million
equivalent) would be made to the Government of Kenya on standard IDA terms.
The Credit would finance about 75% of Project costs, net of taxes and duties,
including 100% of foreign exchange costs and about 50% of local expenditures.
The Government of Kenya would contribute about 34% of total Project costs,
inclusive of taxes and duties.
3.23      Financing arrangements would be as follows:
(a)  US$21.1 million equivalent would be on-lent by Government
to CBK at an annual interest rate of 10%. These funds
would be in turn on-lent by CBK as follows:
(i)  US$4.3 million for purchase of vehicles by CLSMB,
cooperative unions and CBK for up to four years with
interest at not less than 13% per annum (Loan Type I);
(ii)  US$1.9 million for ginnery rehabilitation (civil
works) to CLSMB and cooperative unions; US$6.9 mil-
lion for equipment (ginnery rehabilitation and CLSMB
training center); and US$4.7 million for CLSMB
Incremental Working Capital needs, for up to seven
years including two years of grace, with interest at
not less than 13% per annum (Loan Type II); and
(iii)  US$1.5 million to the Kendu Bay Cooperative for con-
struction and equipment of a new ginnery; US$0.4 million
to CLSMB and cooperative unions for equipment of coopera-
tive buying and paying teams; and US$1.4 million for con-
struction and equipment of CLSMB-s lint storage facili-
ties (inclusive of spare parts warehouse), for up to 12
years, including four years of grace, with interest at
not less than 13% per annum (Loan Type III);



- 33 -
(b)  US$2.9 million equivalent for construction and equipment of
CLSMB and cooperative multi-purpose field storage facilities
and US$0.2 million equivalent for construction of the CLSMB
training center would be passed on as a grant to CLSMB and
to the cooperative unions;
(c) US$2.7 million for technical assistance, consultants, audit
and legal and management services would be passed on as a grant to
CLSMB and CBK; and
(d)  US$6.5 million for incremental operating costs of CLSMB and
cooperative unions, inclusive of local personnel (US$2.2
million), would take the form of regular budget allocations
through MOA and MOCD, as appropriate.
A spread of 3% would be adequate to ensure that CBK's participation in the
Project would be financially viable. Maturities of the loan from the Govern-
ment to CBK would be scheduled so as to match maturities of individual loans
from CBK to CLSMB and cooperative unions. This provision would be spelled out
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to prevent temporary shortfalls in CBK's cash
flow. During negotiations the above lending terms and conditions, to be
incorporated in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CBK and
in a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between CBK and CLSMB were agreed and the
execution of such Subsidiary Agreements is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
The interest rates to be set forth in the legal documents would be adjusted
from time to time in light of changes in the maximum allowed loan interest
rate of commercial banks and in order to maintain positive rates in real terms.
During negotiations it was agreed that, prior to effecting any change in agreed
interest rates or in the three percentage point spread between the interest
rates at which CBK borrows and relends proceeds of the Credit, the Government
would consult with CBK and IDA on the impact of the proposed changes on the
execution of the Project.
E. Procurement
3.24      Contracts for purchase of vehicles and equipment of US$100,000
equivalent or more, totalling about US$11.7 million equivalent, would be
awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. To the maximum extent possible, purchases would be
grouped for the purposes of bidding. Qualified domestic manufacturers would
be allowed a preference of 15% of the CIF price or the level of applicable
import duty, whichever is the lower, when comparing domestic with foreign bids
under ICB. Contracts for goods valued between US$30,000 and US$100,000, which
would total about US$0.6 million equivalent, would be awarded after local
competitive bidding in accordance with standard Government procedures which
were examined during appraisal and are satisfactory. Orders of up to US$30,000
equivalent for other goods would be procured by negotiated purchase, normally
on the basis of at least three suppliers' quotations, up to an aggregate limit
of US$0.6 million equivalent. Civil works contracts for construction of
storage facilities (US$4.3 million), buildings for the ginneries (US$2.2 mil-
lion) and the CLSMB training center (US$0.20 million) would be individually too
small and too dispersed to attract international contractors and would be



- 34 -
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, acceptable to
IDA. Locally-based contractors exist in sufficient numbers and are capable of
carrying out the required works. Draft tender documents and bid analyses
would be submitted to IDA for approval before award of contracts. Technical
assistance and consulting services (inclusive of audit, legal and management
services) estimated to cost about US$2.4 million and US$0.50 million respec-
tively, would have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to IDA, and their employment would be made in accord-
ance with principles and procedures on the basis of World Bank guidelines on
the use of consultants. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained
during negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.25      The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed over four and a
half years to cover, net of taxes and duties:
Category                    Eligible Expenditures             US$'000
(a)  Civil Works                       80% of civil works expendi-
tures for (i) raw cotton and
lint storage facilities; (ii)
buildings for ginneries; and
(iii) the training center         4,500
(b)  Vehicles                          100% of foreign expenditures       2,900
and 80% of local expenditures
(c)  Equipment                         100% of foreign expenditures       4,800
and 80% of local expenditures
(d)  Technical Assistance              100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
for technical assistance to
CLSMB and to CBK, consultants,
audit, legal and management
services                           2,200
(e)  Incremental Operating             25% of incremental operating
Expenses                          expenditures, including
local personnel for CLSMB,
the cooperatives and CBK           1,300
(f)  Incremental CLSMB                 80% of CLSMB incremental
Working Capital Needs             working capital needs              3,100
(g)  Unallocated                                                          3,200
Total IDA Credit                  22,000



- 35 -
3J.26     Disbursements against (a), (b), (c) and (d) would be fully documented.
No disbursements against (a) and (c) would be made for ginneries unless detailed
investment plans have been approved by IDA and by the Project Coordinating/
Steering Committee (PCSC) to be established under the project (para. 4.02).
Disbursements against (e) and (f) would be made against statements of expendi-
ture, with the supporting documentation retained by the Borrower and made
available for inspection by IDA supervision missions and by independent auditors
(para. 3.27). With respect to Category (f), disbursements would only be made
to cover CLSMB incremental seed cotton purchases and ginning fees up to the fol-
lowing maximums of bales of lint equivalent per Project year (PY): PYI, 7,200
bales and PY3, 6,900 bales. Disbursement would be made in category (f) only in
PYs in which incremental purchases of seed cotton produced and ginning fees in
bales of lint equivalent are higher than in the immediately preceeding PY.
CLSMB would submit to IDA disbursement claims every six months, supported by a
detailed statement of the above CLSMB purchases. This statement would be
certified by CBK and would show the financing provided for these operations
within the period concerned by the consortium of commercial banks (para 3.17).
If, in any PY, purchases of seed cotton and ginning fees (both in bales of lint
equivalent) decrease to a level below that of the previous PY, financing for
these activities would be fully provided by the consortium of commercial banks.
An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 3; it is based on
the disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Kenya which have been
supported by the Bank Group.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.27      CLSMB, the cooperative societies and unions involved in Project
activities, and CBK would open and administer separate Project accounts and
would keep records consistent with sound accounting practice, adequate to
reflect their operational and financial situation; these records should
permit proper identification of all the receipts and payments in respect of
the Project as well as the assets and liabilities created by Project trans-
actions. CLSMB's accounts are up-to-date and audited by an independent
accounting firm acceptable to IDA. This arrangement is expected to continue
during the Project implementation period. CLSMB would also make arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, for the independent audit of expenditures under the
Project for disbursements made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Such expenditures would consist of incremental operating expenses and incre-
mental CLSMB working capital costs. The auditor's opinion would certify that
(i) goods or services had been received or work performed; (ii) payments had
been made; and (iii) goods and services had been used solely for the purposes
of the Project. It would also furnish to IDA any other information concern-
ing the accounts and financial statements of CLSMB, and the audit thereof, as
IDA might reasonably request. CBK's accounts are in good order and are
audited regularly by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The responsi-
bility of auditing Government ministries rests with the Controller and Auditor
General. For parastatals, including CLSMB, an independent audit must be
carried out and the report submitted to the Controller and Auditor General and
to the Inspector of Statutory Boards in the Ministry of Finance. These
arrangements have been reviewed and are satisfactory. The accounts of coopera-
tive societies and unions are audited by the Audit and Accounts Division



- 36 -
of MOCD which is currently understaffed and would be strengthened under the
Project through provisions for appointment and operation of eight audit/accoun-
ting field units (para. 4.08). MOCD may also commission the audit of parti-
cipating societies and unions to external private auditors. In addition
to annual audits, an initial comprehensive audit of the cooperatives would be
carried out by independent auditors to be appointed by CBK under terms of
reference which were agreed at negotiations. CBK will furnish IDA a copy of
auditor's report as soon as it is available.
3.28      At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(i)  separate Project accounts would be kept by CLSMB,
cooperative societies and unions, and CBK;
(ii)  CLSMB's accounts and auditors' reports would be sent
to IDA not later than six months after the closing of
CLSMB's financial year;
(iii)  independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be
appointed to audit Project related entities; in
particular, CBK would appoint independent auditors
to carry out an initial comprehensive audit of
participating cooperative unions and societies;
the report would be submitted to IDA as soon as
available; and
(iv) arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made for the
audit of disbursements against statements of expenditure.
H. Environmental Impact
3.29      The Project's impact on the environment would be modest, but
positive. Installation of blowers at ginneries would enable seed cotton
to be moved automatically from ginnery storage to the gins with less pollu-
tion of the atmosphere which ginnery workers breathe. New and rehabilitated
ginneries would be better lighted and safer for workers. Improvements in
buying operations would drastically reduce the need for storage in make-shift
village stores and in farmers' houses, which would improve living conditions
and reduce the risk of fire. Although the Project would not directly support
cotton production, it is anticipated that improvements in processing and mar-
keting would induce production increases. As cotton cultivation is not con-
sidered to be ecologically deleterious and as the Project does not involve
modifications in cultivation techniques, no environmental impact on the pro-
duction side is anticipated.



- 37 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
General
4.01      Proposals for Project organization and management take into account
Kenyan administrative organization which, in the case of cotton processing and
marketing, is characterized by division of responsibilities among a number of
institutions, the Ministries of Agriculture and Cooperative Development which
are responsible for policy making and planning, a parastatal body (CLSMB),
cooperative societies and unions, and financial intermediaries (CBK and
commercial banks). The present system has a number of serious drawbacks:
notably, policy and planning decisions and related budgets, although taken
after some consultation among the ministries concerned (including Finance and
Planning), have not been effectively executed at the field level. Informa-
tion and analysis on activities and problems in the field have not reached
the main decision levels in time, and decisions on the allocation of human
and financial resources and management and control functions have thus not
been adjusted or modified as required. The present organizational structure
needs to be strengthened in a number of areas if operational efficiency is to
be achieved. Project organization and management proposals include the
following elements:
(i) Planning and Budgeting: basic objectives established
and coordinated at the national level would be translated
into detailed yearly proposals -- annual work programs and
budgets -- reflecting views of the participating institutions;
a mechanism would be introduced for preparing, finalizing
and approving these programs and budgets;
(ii) Execution of Project activities would be carried out wherever
possible through existing institutional structures.
These institutions would be reorganized and strengthened as
needed, based on their respective long-term objectives;
a mechanism would be applied for the channelling and
control of investment and operating funds;
(iii) Coordination among Project institutions, in planning,
execution, control and evaluation would be reinforced,
inter alia, through their participation in a Project
Coordinating/Steering Committee (PCSC); and
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation procedures would be established to
permit a continuous assessment of Project progress, identifi-
cation of constraints and recommendation of solutions to
overcome them. These findings and recommendations would be
taken into account in finalizing and approving annual work
programs and budgets. These procedures would be fully
integrated into the existing Government supervision system,
comprising the Parastatals Advisory Committee (para 1.17),
the Inspector of Statutory Boards (para 3.27), and the
Investments Division in the Ministry of Finance.



- 38 -
Project Coordinating/Steering Committee
4.02      To ensure effective Project coordination at the highest level, a
Project Coordinating/Steering Committee (PCSC) would be established. The PCSC
would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and
would comprise the Permanent Secretary of MOA or his Deputy, the Permanent
Secretary or the Commissioner of MOCD, the General Manager of CBK, and the
Managing Director of CLSMB. The PCSC Chairman would call for meetings at
least twice a year to review progress, approve semi-annual reports (para.
4.14) and resolve outstanding issues. Before April 30 of each year it would
meet to review and approve work programs and budgets (para. 4.11). Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
CLSMB
4.03      CLSMB would continue to be the main institution responsible for the
implementation of the Government's policies for the cotton sector. To eli-
minate the main constraints affecting its performance (para. 2.17) CLSMB would
be strengthened by: (i) adjusting its organizational structure to carry out
more effectively the Board's main functions, taking into account the recommen-
dations of the Ndegwa Report (paras 1.16 and 1.17); (ii) implementing an
effective management system both at headquarters and in the field, including
reporting, monitoring and evaluation, budget and financial control and procure-
ment procedures; (iii) training of permanent staff in technical, management,
accounting and financial matters; and (iv) defining its advisory and monitoring
functions in support of the cotton processing and marketing activities carried
out by cooperative unions and by private enterprises. Specifically, CLSMB
would advise the Government on, and support as well as monitor, all aspects of
the cotton industry covering: (a) seed cotton production and harvesting; (b)
seed cotton buying and payment systems; (c) ginnery development and improve-
ments, including their technical and financial management; (d) lint and seed
quality control and improvements; (e) storage and transport systems for seed
cotton, lint and seed; (f) marketing of lint and cotton seed, for local
consumption and export; (g) price reviews for seed cotton, lint and seed; (h)
staffing and training requirements; and (i) the development of the industry in
general and other related matters.
4.04      The organizational structure proposed for CLSMB is designed to
maximize its operational efficiency and to foster a harmonious relationship
between CLSMB and the cooperative societies and unions. Current CLSMB
branches and sub-branches (para. 2.13) would be replaced by four regional
offices, covering the following provinces: one for Eastern and Central; one
each for Nyanza, Western and Coast. Each regional office would be staffed
with one Senior Field Officer (in charge), one Ginneries Inspector and support-
ing staff (two clerks, two typists and two drivers). Seven sub-regional
offices would be maintained and staffed with a manager and supporting staff.
A Board field officer would be permanently posted at each ginnery. New
Monitoring and Evaluation and Legal and Administrative Divisions would be
established. The CLSMB organizational structure as well as the terms of
reference for the key CLSMB staff, were reviewed and agreed upon during
negotiations. Chart 1 shows the proposed organization of CLSMB.



- 39 -
Cooperative Societies and Unions
4.05      Project activities would support the Government's objective of
assisting cooperative societies and unions in assuming increasing responsi-
bilities for the management of marketing and processing activities for the
cotton subsector. Therefore, it is assumed that existing societies and
unions would manage facilities developed under the Project to the maximum
extent feasible. Further, the Project includes provisions to strengthen the
management of these societies and unions and for improving financial controls.
4.06      With one exception, all ginneries to be improved under the Project
would be managed by cooperative unions (or in one case, Meru, a cooperative
society). The exception would be the Mwea ginnery, which would be owned and
managed by CLSMB and used as a testing ground and training center. The new
ginnery to be constructed under the Project would be managed by the Kendu Bay
cooperative union. Six ginneries are already owned, managed and run by
cooperatives; the Meru ginnery is jointly owned by CLSMB and a cooperative
society (para 2.07). There are serious deficiencies in their current opera-
tions, notably a lack of managerial and technical competence, poor mainte-
nance and service of equipment, shortage of stocks (spare parts), and inade-
quate accounting, budgeting and financial controls. In most cases, the
accounts are not properly kept and there are serious delays in audits. With
the assistance of MOCD, CLSMB and CBK management, accounting practices, and
financial controls would be improved, and external auditors would be engaged
to conduct a comprehensive audit of each cooperative (para 4.08). Special
efforts would be made in recruiting qualified staff and in training staff in
accounting procedures and controls. The Head of the Finance and Administra-
tion Department of CLSMB and the CBK Senior Financial Analyst (para 4.09),
together with MOCD's Audit and Accounts Division, would have responsibility
for programming and coordinating these activities. A detailed investment
program for ginnery development would be prepared for each participating
union and society by CLSMB and CBK, in cooperation with MOCD and based on a
technical, financial and managerial analysis of proposed investments. Owner-
ship and management of the Meru, Makueni and Hola ginneries would be trans-
ferred from CLSMB to a cooperative union, and the Kerio Valley ginnery recently
constructed would also be owned and managed by a cooperative. Transfers of
ginneries would be based on feasibility studies to be carried out by CLSMB,
CBK, and the union concerned, which would demonstrate the technical, financial
and managerial feasibility of the operation. If such feasibility studies
indicate that any cooperatives are not creditworthy according to CBK's normal
banking criteria, CBK and the Board would work out detailed proposals to
remedy the situation; such proposals would be submitted to the Borrower and
IDA for their approval. If necessary for any particular cooperative, CBK and
the Board will work out, in agreement with the Borrower and the Cooperatives
in operation, detailed arrangements to assure the repayment to CBK of the
loans to be made under the Project. During negotiations assurances were
obtained regarding arrangements for feasibility studies and transfer proposals
(para 4.07), and the submission of all programs to the PCSC and IDA for
approval. It is a condition of disbursement for each ginnery investment that
a program be approved by IDA and the PCSC.



- 40 
4.07      All activities relating to the post-harvest handling of cotton (in
addition to ginning) would also be handled by cooperative societies and unions
and, where they are currently handled by CLSMB, appropriate arrangements would
be made for their transfer as the cooperatives develop the requisite managerial
capability. An exception would be cotton transport, for the organization and
coordination of which CLSMB would retain responsibility during the Project
period (para. 3.09). CLSMB would retain all responsibility for the sale of
cotton lint and cotton seed and continue to exercise planning, regulatory,
monitoring and support functions in support of the cooperatives. A mid-term
review would be carried out jointly by CLSMB and CBK to assess the performance
of cooperatives and the progress of management improvement programs, before
the end of 1984. If progress in strengthening cooperative management has not
been satisfactory, this review should specifically consider alternative
arrangements, including for example, managerial contracts and the establishment
of limited liability companies to carry out buying, transport, and ginning of
cotton. Project cost estimates include provision for this review. Prior
approval by IDA of the terms of reference for this review would be required.
Assurances regarding the mid-term review were obtained during negotiations.
MOCD's Role
4.08      MOCD is responsible for providing support and assistance to
cooperative societies and unions and for financial control and audit (para.
1.14). Because of lack of trained and qualified staff, notably in the
Audit and Accounts Division, problems have arisen and virtually all socie-
ties and unions have serious deficiencies of financial management and delays
in audits. Under the Project, therefore, MOCD's audit capacity would be
strengthened, specifically to support the participating cotton societies
and unions, by setting up eight teams of accountants and auditors, based
in the cotton producing areas. Each unit would be composed of three auditors
(one senior, one junior and one assistant) and one clerk. The main purpose
of these teams would be to assist the societies and unions in improving man-
agement, accounting practices and financial controls. They would specifically
focus on recruiting and training of cooperative staff.
CBK's Role
4.09      CBK (para. 1.23) would have responsibility under the Project for
reviewing the financial viability of investments proposed under the Project by
cooperative unions and societies and the Cotton Board and for establishing
conditions and procedures to ensure that these entities would operate on a
financially sound basis during the Project period and thereafter. CBK would
need technical assistance to carry out these responsibilities, which would be
undertaken in coordination with CLSMB. CBK also needs to strengthen its
capability in identifying, appraising and supervising agro-industry projects,
so that it can advise cooperative societies and unions on financial management,
as well as extending credit. In addition, CBK would be expected to administer
the lending facilities extended by commercial banks to CLSMB (jointly with the
First National Bank of Chicago) (para. 3.17), including the monitoring of
CLSMB's financial condition and providing advice as needed. To carry out
these responsibilities, CBK would employ a Senior Financial Analyst who would
assist in the organization and management of the cooperative societies and
unions' Project lending program. He would assist CBK in the recruitment and
employment of a team of four junior financial analysts (CBK salary scale level



- 41 -
8 of supervisory grade 2). The Senior Financial Analyst would be team leader
and would organize and implement a training program for the junior team
members. In addition, independent external auditors would be engaged by CBK
to carry out an initial comprehensive audit of the participating societies and
unions, including an analysis of managerial aspects (para 3.28), as part of
the feasibility studies. CBK would submit a certified copy of the auditors'
report to IDA as soon as available (pars. 3.28). Terms of reference for the
initial audit were agreed upon during negotiations.
Staffing
4.10      Provisions related to CLSMB and CBK staff who would be recruited
under the Project are detailed in para. 3.15. Technical assistance staff
would not only provide on-the-job training to local personnel, but would
also ensure that senior local staff were given a thorough grounding in essen-
tial management matters, such as work planning and supervision, budgeting,
procurement and control of stocks. These responsibilities are clearly defined
in the terms of reference of technical assistance staff, which were agreed
upon during negotiations. In addition to technical assistance personnel, the
key staff required for ginnery operations would be: (i) the manager; (ii)
the senior mechanic (deputy manager); (iii) the shift supervisor; (iv) the
accountant; (v) the senior stores/spare parts clerk; and (vi) the CLSMB field
officer. Many of these staff are already in post; the remainder would be
recruited locally. Additional staff required for other Project activities
would also be recruited locally. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Department and Division head positions of CLSMB would at all
times be filled by qualified individuals acceptable to IDA.
Annual Work Programs and Budgets
4.11      Basic documents for Project implementation would be annual work
programs and budgets. These would facilitate a full annual review of progress
in Project implementation by Government and IDA and make possible technical,
financial and managerial adjustments or modifications to the Project as
implementation proceeds and experience is gained. Annual work programs would
contain a description of the cooperative's other activities during the program
period and the way in which such activities would be financed. During nego-
tiations an assurance was obtained that the Government, through MOCD, would
ensure that appropriate consultations would be undertaken with CLSMB, CBK and
IDA with respect to any new investments or financial committments relating to
the cooperative's other activities. The preparation of annual work programs
would start in November in each cooperative union and CLSMB regional office
with the participation of the CLSMB's Field Officers and MOCD's District
Officers. Preparation would be finalized at CLSMB, MOCD and CBK in Nairobi in
January and submitted to Treasury not later than February 15; CLSMB would be
primarily responsible for coordinating this work. The proposed program and
budget would then be reviewed by the Treasury and submitted to IDA for review
and approval not later than March 31, before presentation to the PCSC not
later than April 15 of each year. Should the PCSC make substantial modifi-
cations to the proposed work program and budget, these changes would have to
be cleared with IDA. A conditions of disbursement would be the approval by
IDA and PCSC of annual work programs and budgets for the period and Credit
categories to which each program is related, except that expenditures for
incremental operating costs may be made prior to the approval of the annual
program for any Project year to the extent that funds were allocated for such



- 42 -
costs in the previous year's annual program approved by IDA and PCSC, and
remain unspent. Assurances were obtained during negotiations as to these
arrangements. The first annual plan would be prepared by CLSMB, in con-
sultation with the cooperative unions and CBK, and discussed during the
first Project supervision mission.
B. Training
4.12      The long-term efficiency of cotton processing and marketing opera-
tions cannot be assured through the refurbishing and expansion of physical
facilities alone, but will also depend on the technical and managerial
competence of staff at all levels. To address the staffing constraints being
experienced by the CLSMB and the cooperatives, the Project would include the
following provisions: (i) construction of a CLSMB training center at Mwea
for CLSMB and cooperative ginnery managers and operating personnel; (ii)
carrying out of courses, demonstrations, in-service programs and training in
other countries, provided their experience is relevant to Kenyan conditions;
and (iii) provision of technical assistance for the programming and evaluation
of training programs. These training programs would supplement the present
general staff training activities undertaken by MOCD.
4.13      CLSMB, in consultation with MOCD, would prepare a detailed training
program, including: (i) main objectives; (ii) types of training to be pro-
vided; (iii) training needs in terms of the numbers, categories, and levels
of personnel, over time; (iv) arrangements for the administration, monitoring
and evaluation of the training program; and (v) budget and financing proposals.
Preparation of the training program is expected to start not later than July
1982; it would be submitted to IDA for review and comments not later than
October 31, 1982 and would be approved by the PCSC not later than December 31,
1982. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
C. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14      CLSMB, through its Monitoring and Evaluation Division (to be
established under the Project, para. 4.04), would design and implement, not
later than September 30, 1982, a monitoring and evaluation system. Information
would be obtained from the institutions involved in Project implementation in
order to assist managers in (i) collecting statistics on Project components
for further evaluation and reporting needs; (ii) assessing progress in the
fulfillment of targets set out in the annual work programs and budgets; (iii)
identifying problems and. constraints for timely adjustment and reorientation
of Project activities, and (iv) managing the Project effectively and effi-
ciently at all levels. A set of questionnaires, similar to those used in
the pro-forma survey under the IADP II Project (Cr. 959-KE), would be pre-
pared. CLSMB would formally request and obtain the completed questionnaires
every quarter as a step in each institution's participation in the formulation
of work programs. CLSMB would prepare reports every six months summarizing
Project progress and performance; these would be submitted to PCSC and IDA for
review. The format and contents of these reports would be discussed in detail
during the first IDA supervision mission. Assurances on the above arrange-
ments were obtained at negotiations.



- 43 -
4.15      The Government would prepare a completion report summarizing Project
performance and evaluating its impact. The report would be submitted to IDA
not later than six months after the expected closing date. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
D. Implementation Timetable
4.16      The Project would be implemented over a period of four and a half
years. Project years would coincide with the Government's and IDA's fiscal
year. A draft Project implementation schedule is summarized in Table 4 and
was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
V. MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Market Prospects and Prices
5.01      World-wide, cotton has been subject to gradual replacement by
synthetic fibers and its share of the fiber market has been falling. This
competition from synthetics has kept prices from rising in real terms. For
middle-grade lint, real prices were held stable by that competition from 1960
to 1973, when they rose by one-third as synthetics' prices responded to higher
costs of oil stocks. The ensuing world slump in 1975 sent lint prices to 15%
below their average of the 1960s. After peaking again in 1976 on the
recovery, they entered a serious decline which was expected to bottom out in
1981 at 20% below the 1960s average in real terms, with gradual recovery
to the 1960s average by about 1985. These expectations are based on the
assumptions (a) that synthetics will continue to erode cotton's share of the
fiber market, particularly in the centrally planned and developed market eco-
nomies; (b) that cotton consumption will grow most rapidly in the developing
market economies due to high population growth, high income elasticities of
cotton demand, and rising incomes; and (c) that textile manufacturing will
grow most rapidly in these same countries.
5.02      Kenyan textile mills are the principal consumer of Kenyan lint,
which they blend with imported lint and imported synthetic fibers. Their
product is sold exclusively on the local market and is generally protected
from import competition by high tariffs. Kenyan textile mills are obliged to
buy from the Cotton Board unless they can demonstrate that their demand cannot
be supplied by the Board. They pay an administered price for Kenyan cotton
that has been higher than the import equivalent (para. 2.09). Despite this
protection, Kenyan textiles face serious competition from well organized
illegal textile importation. Lint sales to Kenyan mills are thus to some
extent isolated from the world market, and Kenyan consumers pay an artifically
high price for the cloth that these mills make. In a broad sense, these
higher prices represent a cost to the nation; more concretely, however,
pricing Kenyan cotton to Kenyan mills above the import equivalent hastens its
replacement, legally by imported synthetic fibers and illegally by smuggled
imported fabrics. Moreover, the increased protection of the textile industry
made necessary by high prices for Kenyan lint conflicts with the national
policy of removing protection and encourging industry to export. For these



- 44 
reasons, market prospects for Kenyan lint are very much linked to the world
lint market. Lint that is residual after meeting the demand of local mills is
exported, and markets and prices are thus directly dependent on world market
prospects.
5.03      The price that Kenya's BPA variety, AR-quality is expected to
command at export during the next 10 years is forecast below:
FOB Mombasa                CIF North European port
Year                         US1981l/kg                      US1981lHkg
1981                             213                             244
1982                             232                             263
1983                             247                             278
1984                             264                             295
1985                             279                             310
1986                             281                             312
1987                             283                             314
1988                             285                             316
1989                             287                             318
1990                             288                             319
On a world scale, Kenya is a very minor producer of the grade of cotton
it exports; supply changes in Kenya will not affect the market for its
cotton exports.
5.04      The Kenyan market for lint is expanding, though at a slower
rate than the recent expansion of cotton production. A 1977 UNIDO study
projected its expansion at 8 1/2% per year. In recent years, expansion has
undoubtedly been slower because of competition from illegal imports. Future
expansion is uncertain. Assuming that the Government maintains its policy of
obliging industries to face international competition, Kenyan textile manufac-
turers will have to cut costs and, unless official exchange rates are brought
into line with accounting exchange rates, receive an export subsidy. In any
case, if they are to export, the price they pay for Kenyan lint can hardly
represent more of a premium over FOB export prices than intervening transport
and handling charges would justify. Regardless of whether the textile firms
begin to export or whether they remain limited to the local market, the
prices of the lint grades used for domestic production will tend to align in
price with FOB prices (adjusted for transport and handling); the surplus of
UKA/AR and BR cotton, if any, will be exported by the Cotton Board. On these
assumptions, the price of UKA/AR and BR lint, is projected as follows:



- 45 -
Weighted Average
UKA/AR lint              BR lint                  of Kenya lint
FOB Mombasa              FOB Mombasa              FOB Mombasa
Year            (US1981l/kg)              (US1981l/kg)            (US1981l/kg)
1981               207                       155                     203
1982               225                       169                     221
1983               240                       180                     235
1984               256                       192                     251
1985               271                      203                      266
1986               273                       205                     268
1987               275                       206                     270
1988               277                      208                      272
1989               279                      209                      274
1990               280                      210                      275
5.05      Under the production assumptions used (para. 2.23) and Government's
projections of textile-industry expansion, Kenya would remain a modest net
exporter of cotton with or without the Project, exporting some BPA/AR and
possibly continuing to import specialty cotton and some BR quality. There-
fore, additional cotton production induced by the Project would increase
exports and would earn foreign exchange.
5.06      The Government's price setting system (para. 2.09) has worked
reasonably well and has resulted in prices which are equitable and provide
adequate incentives; this system would be continued under the proposed Project.
With respect to seed cotton prices, it is assumed that, in the long run, the
Government would wish to pay producers about three-fourths of the export-
parity of their cotton (at official exchange rates) but not more, because
higher prices lead to Cotton Board deficits which the Government must make
good. On this assumption, the farm-gate price of seed cotton would, on
average, follow the world-market-derived prices for lint projected above.
Table 4 shows the intervening costs between the FOB price of lint and the
farm-gate price of seed cotton. Table 5 shows cotton production costs.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following: (i) that
the criteria to be applied by the Government in setting seed cotton, lint and
cotton seed prices would take account of the financial viability of the
institutions involved in cotton processing and marketing activities, adequate
incentives for farmers to produce seed cotton and parity with international
cotton price levels; and (ii) that a system would be established for the
periodic review between CLSMB and IDA of the prices set to ensure that they
remained consistent with the criteria cited above.
5.07      Cotton seed is an important by-product of lint production, accounting
for from 8 to 12% of CLSMB revenues. What is not needed for seed (about 3/4)
is sold to crushing mills. The oil yield from cottonseed is 13%. Good
quality oil is processed to remove gossypol and coloring and used mainly for
cooking oil and margarine; poor quality oil and stock from refining is made
into soap. Cottonseed oil competes with other, lower-price vegetable oils, in
Kenya's case, mainly imported palm oil. Kenya's cottonseed oil production
accounts for only about 1/6 of domestic vegetable oil production. Under no
projection of increases in cotton production would cottonseed come close to



- 46 -
eliminating vegetable-oil imports. Soap and soap stock, principally palm oil
and animal fats, likewise are imported and changes in cotton production are
unlikely to change this. Cottonseed oil's by-product, cottonseed cake, finds
a ready market with local livestock feed formulators.
B. Financial Analysis
5.08      Detailed financial projections have been made for CLSMB, the
cooperative unions and the Government and the results indicate that the
proposed Project investments would be financially justified. Based on
these projections the overall base financial rate of return (FRR) on invest-
ments over a 15-year period would be 23%. The sensitivity analysis shows that
if implementation delays were to result in a cost overrun of 10% or in a
similar decline in benefits the FRR would fall to about 16%, a significant
reduction though still acceptable. The general risks associated with the
Project are described in paras. 6.07-6.09.
5.09      Implementation of the proposed Project should result in a signifi-
cant improvement in the CLSMB's financial position. In a "without Project"
situation, the financial condition of CLSMB would remain critical in the
years to come. Net cash flows would always be negative increasing from KSh
30.4 million (US$3.0 million) to KSh 67.4 million (US$6.7 million) in 1986/87.
Financial projections including Project proposals indicate a significant
improvement in results: net cash flows would be negative from 1982/83 until
1989/90, becoming positive thereafter. It has been assumed that ginneries
would operate at 80% of their installed capacity after the Project period.
The following product prices have been used: seed cotton, KSh 3.4/kg
(US$0.34); lint purchased by CLSMB from the unions or from private gin-
ners, KSh 10.36/kg (US$1.03); lint sold locally, KSh 14.98/kg (US$1.50), and
for export KSh 13.5/kg (US$1.35); and cotton seed, KSh 0.89/kg (US$0.10).
Over a 15-year period the base FRR for ginneries would be 23%.
5.10      An important reason for CLSMB's financial difficulties has been
its involvement since 1976 in the financing of farm inputs for seed cotton
production, coupled with a very low recovery rate. In light of the adverse
impact on CLSMB finances, it was recommended at appraisal that CLSMB cease
to perform this function. Withdrawal of this service would be unlikely to
have a significant adverse impact on cotton production because the inputs
financed by CLSMB reach only a small proportion of cotton producers (fewer
than 10%) and because they are frequently not appropriate for cotton cultiva-
tion and do not reach the farmers in time. However, some time will elapse
before an effective new credit program is developed. CLSMB may have to
continue financing inputs in the short-term. In this event, a separate
accounting system for CLSMB's farm input operations should be maintained and
the sources of financing clearly identified. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that CLSMB would cease to finance farm inputs for seed cotton
production not later than July 1, 1983 and that separate accounts would be
kept until this phaseout occurs. Assurances were also obtained that CLSMB
and cooperative unions and societies participating in the Project would
undertake no new investments or financial commitment related to their cotton
processing and marketing operations without prior IDA approval.



- 47 -
5.11      Ginning is the main activity of the cooperative unions that would
be involved in Project activities. Without the Project, and aggregating
financial results, the current net cash flow deficit of about KSh 9.4 mil-
lion (US$0.9 million) would increase to about KSh 47.9 million (US$4.8 mil-
lion) by 1990/91. Not only would the unions be technically unable to cope
with the increasing quantities of seed cotton to be processed but their
condition would be financially untenable. Projections with Project imple-
mentation show that the net cash flow would become positive after 1988/89.
The base FRR on the unions incremental investments over a 15-year period
would be 19%.
5.12      The main quantifiable financial returns to Government as a result
of Project implementation would be CBK loan repayments and incremental taxes
and duties. After the Project period recurrent expenditures would be the main
annual outflow: about KSh 6.3 million (US$630,000) would need to be allocated
in the MOCD budget for Accounting and Audit teams. By 1985/86 a positive net
cash flow of about KSh 30.8 million (US$3.1 million) would be expected; it
would, however, become negative from 1992/93 (Table 6). However, given the
overall financial benefits expected from Project implementation, the addi-
tional fiscal burden appears justified. Moreover, if the Project were not
implemented the Government would have to cope with further significant finan-
cial deficits due to the increased deterioration in the operational efficiency
of cotton processing and marketing activities carried out by the cooperative
unions and CLSMB.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      Improvements in both CLSMB's and the cooperative unions- operations
as a result of the Project would considerably reduce the cost of marketing and
processing cotton and, in the process, improve the quality of the product and
induce farmers to increase cotton production. The biggest gains would stem
from the value, net of production costs, of cotton production induced as
cotton farmers responded to the certainty of getting inputs on time and of
having their cotton bought and paid for on time. Other major benefits would
be the value of additional lint produced due to the slightly higher ginning
percentage of new gins, and savings in the operations of the ginneries and in
the seed cotton buying system following their reorganization and re-equipment.
Economies would also be realized in transport of seed cotton to ginneries.
These benefits have been quantified and their projected occurrence coordinated
with scheduled implementation of Project components. These values are before
taking account of taxes and are adjusted to show their worth to the economy
by taking into account the economic value of foreign exchange and world-market
prices where appropriate (Table 7).
6.02      Additional benefits that have not been quantified include the
following: quality improvements in cotton lint; utility to cotton coopera-
tives of cotton warehouses at buying centers which are to be used for general
purposes after the new system of bulk handling and immediate transport to
ginnery is instituted; and improvements in CLSMB-s handling of lint due to



- 48 -
the construction of terminal warehouses. Lint quality improvements have not
been quantified because quality deterioration tends to show up in the erosion
of exporters enthusiasm for Kenyan cotton rather than in price erosion,
hence the difficulty in quantifying it. It is difficult to predict accurately
future use of buying center storehouses by cotton cooperatives.
6.03      Most benefits would accrue to CLSMB and to the cotton cooperatives,
and, through the latter, to cooperative members. Both CLSMB and the coopera-
tives are now losing large amounts of money on cotton operations; these losses
are a burden on the economy. Cotton farmers would also be direct and indirect
beneficiaries of the Project. Because they would be assured that they could
sell their cotton and be paid in an orderly manner and promptly, it is
projected that they would increase their production of cotton modestly,
reaping thereby the value of the cottonseed produced net of production costs,
as well as the additional opportunities for family labor that increased
cotton production would provide.
B. Economic Justification
6.04      The economic justification of the Project based on the most likely
projection of future events is summarized in Table 8. Costs and benefits
are incremental. Figures are in constant end-1981 Kenya Shillings. Benefits
are calculated on the assumption that Kenya would be a net exporter of cotton
with or without the Project, hence using export parity prices (Chapter V).
If Kenya were to become a net importer of cotton, either with or without the
Project, either because local textile demand grew more rapidly than antici-
pated or because Kenya developed a textile export market, or for some other
reason, then economic benefits would accrue at the higher import parity of
cotton, and the economic rate of return would be higher than that estimated
here.
6.05      Adjustments have been made in estimates of costs and benefits to
take account of the following factors. Cotton would be saved (i.e. not wasted
in the buying stage) and incremental production induced. This would, at the
margin, be exported and its value, both ex-ginnery and delivered to the buying
centers, is calculated from the world market which Kenya is likely to face
(para. 5.03). The net value to Kenya of induced cotton production is derived
from average production costs estimated in Table 7. For these purposes,
unskilled farm labor, both hired and family, is valued at 54% of the average
prevailing wage of KSh 10/day plus lunch or KSh 6/day and 5.4/day respectively,
to reflect the opportunity cost of such labor in Kenya's labor surplus economy.
Taxes have been deducted from costs for purposes of economic analysis.
6.06      Based on these assumptions and adjustments, the internal rate of
return to Kenya-s economy from the Project over a 20-year period is estimated
at 28% (Table 8).
C. Risks and Sensitivity
6.07      The Project involves relatively few risks.  Most investments are to
rehabilitate production facilities that once worked satisfactorily and which,



- 49 -
there is every reason to believe, could do so again. The proposed seed cotton
buying system represents something of an innovation for Kenya, but it is one
that is widely and successfully used in a number of other African countries.
Poor management is manifestly the reason that the cotton sector has reached a
pass where a rehabilitation project is called for. If there is any appreciable
risk in the Project, it is in the area of management. Even here, the Project
would not rely on experimental solutions and would endeavor instead to find an
answer by working with and through existing institutions, making the minimum
of changes necessary to assure a better result. Should the proposed improve-
ments in sector management fail to achieve the expected results in conjunction
with the well-proven physical investments, Project costs would probably be
incurred more or less as expected but benefits would be late in materializing,
or would be less than projected, or both. Because of the integrated nature of
the proposed changes, any adverse management impact on benefits would tend to
affect all types of Project benefits in much the same way.
6.08      Sensitivity tests show that, due to the structure of Project costs
and benefits, the projected rate of return of 28% is singularly insensitive
to likely changes in benefits. For instance, benefits would have to be
lagged by more than two years without lagging costs at all before the rate of
return would fall below 16%, Kenya's estimated opportunity cost of capital; a
two-year lag of benefits relative to costs would leave the rate of return at
17%. Similarly, the Project would have to suffer a shortfall in benefits by
more than 32% before the rate of return fell to the opportunity cost of
capital.
6.09      Project cost estimates are thought to be relatively certain in view
of the well known and widely used technologies involved. Nevertheless, a
cost overrun of 47% would be necessary to bring the rate of return to the
opportunity cost of capital. Projections of world cotton prices and the
Kenyan prices derived from them are thought to be quite conservative. At
reasonable levels of processing and marketing efficiency, there is plenty of
margin for a fall in the world price before cotton production becomes
uneconomic for Kenya. As long as cotton production is intrinsically economic
and price policies give participants in the sector (farmers, traders,
ginners) reasonable incentives for participation, only about 60% of Project
benefits would be directly affected by changes in the price of cotton.
Decreases in the cotton price that would bring the Project's rate of return
below 16% would have to be nearly 75% -- much larger than any fluctuations
that are normally foreseeable.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      It is a condition of signing that the Kenya Parliament approve the
issuance of the Government's guarantee for CLSMB's obligations to the
consortium of international banks (para. 3.17).
7.02      The following subjects and issues were reviewed during Credit
negotiations:
(a) the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and CBK
and the subsidiary financing agreement between CBK and CLSMB
including appropriate interest rate levels (para. 3.23);



- 50 -
(b) proposed CLSMB organizational structure and terms of reference
of key CLSMB staff (para. 4.04); and
(c) terms of reference for the initial comprehensive audit of
participating cooperatives and ulons (para. 4.09).
7.03      Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the following
subjects:
(a) that responsibility for transport of seed cotton to ginneries
would be gradually transferred to cooperatives or arrangements
made for handling by private truckers to the extent necessary,
following consultation with IDA, no later than January 1, 1986
(para. 3.09);
(b) that proposals for the use of consultants' services would be
included in the annual work programs (para 3.15);
(c) that all technical assistance personnel and consultants
would have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment satisfactory to IDA, and their employment would
be made in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to IDA on the basis of World Bank guidelines on the use of con-
sultants (para 3.24);
(d) on financing arrangements for on-lending and grant support
to CLSMB, CBK and unions, including specific provisions on
interest rates and spreads (para. 3.23);
(e) on procurement arrangements (para. 3.24);
(f) that: (i) separate Project accounts would be kept by
CLSMB, cooperative societies and unions, and CBK; (ii)
CLSMB's accounts and auditor's reports would be sent to
IDA not later than six months after the closing of CLSMB's
financial year; (iii) independent auditors acceptable
to IDA would be appointed to audit Project related entities,
in particular, the Government would appoint independent
auditors to carry out an initial audit of participating
cooperative unions and societies; the report would be submitted
to IDA as soon as available; and (iv) arrangements satisfactory
to IDA would be used for the audit of disbursements made
against certificates of expenditures (para. 3.28);
(g) arrangements for the establishment and operation of a Project
Coordinating/Steering Committee (para. 4.02);
(h) that detailed proposals on transfers of ownership and
management of ginneries from CLSMB to cooperatives would be
submitted to the PCSC and IDA for approval (para. 4.06);
(i) that a systematic review of cooperative society performance
in ginnery management and in buying and transport of cotton
would be carried out by the end of 1984 to assess progress in
management improvement programs; if progress in strengthening



- 51 -
cooperative management has not been satisfactory, this
review should specifically consider alternative arrangements,
including, for example, managerial contracts and the establish-
ment of limited liability companies (para. 4.07);
(j) that the Department and Division head positions of CLSMB would
at all times be filled by qualified individuals acceptable to
IDA (para 4.10);
(k) that the cooperatives would undertake no new investment or
financial committment with respect to operations other than those
relating to cotton processing and marketing without prior con-
sultation, through MOCD, with CLSMB, CBK and IDA (para. 4.11);
(1) on arrangements for preparation and approval of annual work plans
and budgets (para. 4.11);
(m) that a training program would be submitted to IDA for review and
comments not later than October 31, 1982, and would be promptly
submitted to the PCSC for approval not later than December 31,
1982 (para. 4.13);
(n) on reporting and on monitoring and evaluation arrangements,
and in particular that CLSMB-s new Monitoring and Evaluation
Department would design and, not later than September 30,
1982, implement a monitoring and evaluation system (para.
4.14).
(o) on the Project completion report (para. 4.15);
(p) on the criteria to be applied by the Government for establish-
ing seed cotton, cotton lint and cotton seed prices, and on
a system for the periodic review of the prices estblished to
ensure that they remain consistent with the criteria (para.
5.06); and
(q) that CLSMB would cease to finance farm inputs for seed cotton
production not later than July 1, 1983, and that until then,
CLSMBEs farm input financing activities would be managed and
accounted for distinct from other operations, with sources of
financing for these activities clearly identified (para. 5.10).
7.04      Conditions of Credit effectiveness are:
(a) that the heads of the Technical Services and Finance Departments
of CLSMB and the CBK senior financial analyst have been
appointed and were in post (para. 3.15);
(b) that an agreement satisfactory to IDA covering the terms
and conditions of a revolving line of credit between CLSMB
and a consortium of commercial banks had been signed and is
effective (para. 3.17); and
(c) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and CBK and a subsidiary financing agreement between CBK and
CLSMB (para. 3.23).



- 52 -
7.05      Conditions of disbursement are:
(a) for incremental purchases of seed cotton produced and incremental
ginning fees paid in any PY, that these be higher than in the PY
immediately preceeding (para. 3.26);
(b) for investments in cooperative unions and societies for ginnery
development, that the Project Coordinating/Steering Committee
had approved a detailed investment program satisfactory to
IDA, based on a technical, financial and managerial evaluation
of the investments to be carried out jointly by CLSMB and CBK,
in cooperation with MOCD (para. 4.06); and
(c) approval of annual work programs and budgets for each year
for the period and credit categories to which each relates
with the exception noted in para. 4.11 (para. 4.11).
7.06      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR 18.7 million (US $22.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms.
February 16, 1982



Table 1
KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board - Accounts 1976-1980
1. Income and Expenditure Accounts
1/
Oct 31, 1976   June 30, 1978-    June 30, 1979   June 30, 1980
----------------------- KSh million --------------------------
TurnOver                         78.2            136.4              105.5            153.2
Trading Profit                  20.7              26.7                7.2            14.7
Other Income                      1.6              6.2                2.0             7.7
Total Income                22.3             32.2                 9.2            22.4
Expenditures                    10.3              37.4               20.4            48.3
Surplus (Deficit)               12.0              (5.2)             (11.2)          (25.9)
2. Balance Sheets
Oct 31, 1976   June 30, 1978-    June 30, 1979   June 30, 1980
----------------------- KSh million -------------------------
Fixed Assets                     5.4             13.3                18.2            26.5
Ginnery Companies                 7.5              2.3                1.8             4.0
Current Assets                  21.8              54.4               99.1           119.8
Stocks                         -               35.6               58.2             68.0
Debtors                       11.2              18.7               40.7            51.6
Bank balances and cash        10.6               0.1                0.2             0.2
Total Assets                34.7              70.0             119.1            150.3
Current Liabilities
Creditors and Provisions        4.4             14.7               43.1            10.2
Cotton Fund                     0.9              0.3                0.7             1.1
Bank Overdrafts                4.1              19.1               55.4           137.1
Bills Payable                   -               15.0                -
Totai Current Liabilities   9.4              49.1               99.2            148.4
Net Current (liabilities)/assets 12.4              5.3               (0.1)          (28.6)
Net Worth                        25.3             20.9               19.8             2.0
Represented by:
The Fund                       20.1             15.0                3.7           (22.1)
Loans (MOA)                     5.2              5.9               16.1            24.1
25.3             20.9               19.8        .    2.0
1/ 20 months
October 5, 1981



8
COTTON PROCESSo  AVD MARKETI%C, POTjIcI
Project Cost Suarv by          t Conot
(Ed 1981 prices - KSh)
pYI                 PY2                pn 3               p 4                             Forelgn              Taxes &            IS$ 6eivaIot
1082083             1983/64            1984/85            1985/86          Total         * Exchange ()                to ((
1.  luving                5,779,354           11.156.751          7.,55,119         8.810.012         33,601.236               32                1(1 ISS * 10-0 ESh
:. St.,ra4e:
Ir'vws-net Cost       12.40..202           16.133,446          4.090.071             -             32.627.721               43                12
Operating Cost              -                 89.749              89.749             89.749           269.247               25                14
3. Trjn4port
l-:s.tC  nt cost      6.427.164            4.100.167          3.815.506         3.815.506         20.158.343               70                20
k      mer ting cost       -                   -                    -            1.471.500         1.471.500               50                18
4. C-fs
.nvet-.:nt cost      31.389.734           34.974.123         12.708.950           745.200         79.818.007               64                17
d,vratinA cost             -               1.749.597          1.943.996          3.985.192         7.678.785               24                16
5. TechFnicil assistance   8.158,305           6.397,622          6.397.622          3.756,047        24.739.596                70                4
6. Audit an3 legal fees    639,090               639,090          7.718.787          6.831.162         15.828.129              11                10
Increzental vorking                                                                                                                                                                  1'
capital             20,000,000                 -            19.000,000            -              39.000,000               -                 -                                         4-
8.   Trairning:
Investment cost      2,793.147                -                  -                -               2.793,147               56                14
.)perating coat        8689.641             4.8.904            869.641            428.904         2.597.090               -                  6
ma%e cost                90.460,637           75.669.451         64,489.441                           260.582.801               39                12          -   26.051.280
?. ',Ical Concinsencies    8,230,233           6.927,183          5,809.182                            23.584.321              39                12           _    2,35S.432
Sub total    98.690.870           82.596,634         70.298.623        32.580.995         284,167.122              39                12               28,4t6.712
Price Ccntingencies        5.487.361          14,131.312         18.751.921         11.884.277          50,254,871              39                12                5.025.487
,.-ta1 Project cost     104.178,231           96.727,946         89.050,544        44.465.272         334.421.993               39               1233.42.19
Ta.es and Duties          121793 818          11.878.871         10 936.032          5,460,647         41t069.368               39                12                * 106 37
Total project cont
nat of taxes              91.384.413           64,849,075        78,114,512        39,004,625          293,352,625                                                 29.335.262
Octob5. 1981                                                                                                                                                                                    '4



- 55 -
Table 3
KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA  Fiscal Year                                IDA Disbursements 1/
and Quarter                                 By end of Quarter       Cumulative
----- -----US$-000---------------
1983
December 31, 1982                            500                  500
March 31, 1983                               500                1,000
June 30, 1983                                750                1,750
1984
September 30, 1983                        1,700                3,450
December 31, 1983                         1,700               5,150
March 31, 1984                             1,700               6,850
June 30, 1984                              1,700               8,550
1985
September 30, 1984                         1,550              10,100
December 31, 1984                          1,500               11,600
March 31, 1985                             1,500               13,100
June 30, 1985                              1,500               14,600
1986
September 30, 1985                           925              15,525
December 31, 1985                            925               16,450
March 31, 1986                               925               17,375
June 30, 1986                                925               18,300
1987
September 30, 1986                           925               19,225
December 31, 1986                            925               20,150
March-31, 1987                               925               21,075
June 30, 1987                                925               22,000
I/ Expected key dates:    (i) Effectiveness - September 30, 1982
(ii) Completion - December 31, 1986
(iii) Closing - June 30, 1987



- 56 -
Table 4
KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND M ARKETING PROJECT
Economic Price of Cotton
Without         At Full
Project      Development 1/
K Sh 21.315/kg  K Sh 21.315/kg
Lint, weighted average, FOB Mombasa, 1981
less port clearance:  shipping agent
insurance, transport to warehouse, etc.           .224             same
less warehousing & handling @ Mombasa
warehouse                                         .022             same
less rail transport: railhead nearest
ginnery to MIombasa, ave. 650 km @
K Sh 0.39/t-km                                    .2596            same
less road transport: ginnery to nearest
railhead, ave. 65 km @ K Sh 1.75/t-km             .1094            same
Lint, weighted average, ex-ginnery                   20.7               same
cottonseed:  raw cotton ratio                    (.495)           (.525)
plus value of cotton seed @ K Sh 0.89/kg         1.335             same
lint:  raw cotton ratio                          (.33)            (.35)
less ginning cost/kg of lint                     2.179            1.391
Equivalent Value of Raw Cotton delivered
to ginnery                                    K Sh 6.553/kg   K Sh 7.218/kg
less road transport: buying center to
ginnery, ave. 80 km @ K Sh 1.40/t-km              .107             .0883
less buying center expenses                       .49              .18
Economic Value of Raw Cotton @ Buying
Center                                        K Sh 5.956/kg   K Sh 6.9497/kg
1/   Values in columns adjusted for taxes and foreign exchange component (assuming
economic worth of foreign exchange at 1.05 times official rate) as follows:
FE X        tax %      AdJustment coefficient
port clearance                 neg       eliminated             1.0
warehousing                    neg       eliminated             1.0
rail transport                 70            20                 1.024
road transport                 50            20                 0.96
ginning operations             26            16                 0.92736
buying operations              neg           neg                1.0
dr.. C lOQt



KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARRETING PROJECt
Cotton: Cost of Production per Hectare
Physical            ---- Financial -----   ------------------------- Econcodomc ---------------------_____
Unit Price     Price   --------- Unit Price ---------        ---------- Price -------------
(KSh)   Without Project   With Project       Without Proiect   With Project
(KSh)            (KCSh)
Output                            350 kg raw cotton   3.4 KSh/kg       1190   KSh 5.956/kg       KSh 6.9497/kg          2,085             2,432
Inputs
land preparation, tractor                                             120                                                       115
seed  22.5 kg                                           0               0               KSh 0.89/kg                              20
insecticide  5 kg                                     30 KSh/kg       150               KSh32.64/kg                             163
transport & handling                                                  100                                                        54
hired labor, 20 days                                  11 KSh/day      220               KSh 6/day                               120
(Return to land. family labor                                                                                                                         t
and enterprise)                                               KSh/ha 600                                             1,613             1,960
family labor  140 days                                10 KSh/day    1400                KSh 5.4/day                     756                756
(Return to land and enterprise)                                KSh/ha -800                                                857              1,204
(Implicit wage to family labor)                                      (KSh 4.29/day)                                   (KSh 11.52/day)  (KSh 14/day)
October 5, 1981



i; ENYA
COTT0O  PROCESSIN%  AND) IARKF1INI: PROJECT
COK Cash Flow
(KSh millions - End 1981 prices)
1982/83     83/84      84185      85/86     86/87      87/88  88/89    89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/9?  97/9a  98,99    99'2000  20.O 2.-'
I.  '^-rces of fOr4q
D:-rail ao.rcc    IDA I/            64.4         53.0       44.9     20.3       2/.9      4.1      1.9      1.7       2.1      1.4       3.2     1.8        2.1      2.6       0.5     3.2      '9       7'S       17
.ies aid i-part duttig                 12.8         11.9      10.9       5.5      2/.7        .7      .7        .7       .7        .7       .7      .7         .7        .7       .7       .7      .7        .7       .7
C: ') ci -ris_t1ont                                  4.8        7.8     29.6      26.0      45.2   25.1       21-3    10.1        7.2      1.0     0.7        0.6       0.4             -            -        -
rei-!'ursemenct
0.9       0.6       9.1      19.0     22.2   18.8       l5.4      11.1      5.2       2.2     2.0        1.8      0.9
rei-h.,rne~ent:
Cf i;-
rei-t'urseient:                             0.3        0.2       0.2        0.2                              -         -        -                  -         -        -        -        -            -        -
Tetol                           77.2        70.9      64.1      *64.7      47.5      72.2   46.5       39.1     24.0   14.5         7i       5.2       5.2      4 6       1.3     3.9      2.S      3.3      2.4
11.   ^-tlc.ti'.   of f,ids
Prol'et Fxwendi:ures                   98.7      82.6        70.3       32.6       -          -                -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -       -        -        -        -
ret'r eervice- prind(pal                                                                                                                   1.8       1.8      1.8      1.8        1.8     I 8     V.a       IS t     .9
interent                .5        1.0         1.3       1.3        1.3       1.3     1.3     1.3       1.3      1.3        1.3      1.3       1.3     1.3        1.3     1.3      1.3       1-3     1.3
.,-rr irq crst *' co audit
sectit'  reinforceae-tt)                                                         6.9      6.9     6.9       6.9      6.9       6.9      6.9       6.9      6.9       6.9      6.9      6.9     6.9       6. 9    6.9
Toral                        99.2        83.6       71.6       33.9       8.2       8.2     8.2      8.2       8.2      8.2      10.0     10.0      10.0      9.9       9.9    9.9       9.9      9S9      e.t
Nett caSll flov                       (22.0)      (12.7)     (7.5)      30.8      39.3      64.0   38.3       30.9     15.8       6.3     (2.9)    (4.7)   (4.7)    (5.3)  (8.6)  (6.0)  (7.3)    '6.61  f7.91    Ln
-:et e..N (low (CuMuItivO)                       (34.7)   (42.2)    (11.4)        27.9      91.9   130.9    161.8   177.6   183.9   181.0   176.3   171.6    166.3  157.7    151.7  144.1  137.8  130.4
1/  7- of rrolect cost. net of taxes. price contingencies excluded
7   ^t, on *dditional cars and tr.cks.(30')
7ases and d.ties on operating costs(10%.)
Taxes on adlitional cotton prod jction!  Societies  & onions do not pay income tax; (1inoome Tax Act Chapter 740, Firat Schedule, exemption);  Cotton board surpluses
hase bee, ex,,pted in 1973.  Hovever a confirmation from COK for subsenuent years is still pending.  Additional taxes that CLSlB should pel have not been taken into
consideration either in POK or CLSMt cesh flov.
October S. 1981
0*-2
lb
cr
m



- 59 -
KENYA                                          Table 7
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Summary of Project Economic Benefits
1982     1983    1984   1985    1986   1987         1988    1989   1990-2001
I. Cost Savings in Raw Cotton Buying
Raw cotton bought (T)                  34835   40045   45160   50335   55335   58690   59880   60950   61545
Savings  (KSh/T)                           40     100      200      310     310      310      310      310      310
Savings~ (mill KSh)                    1.393   4.005   9.032  15.604  17.154  18.194  18.563  -8.895  19.079
II. Cost Savings in Transport of Raw
Cotton from Buying Center to
Ginnery
Raw cotton bought (T)                   34835   40045   45160   50335   55335   58690   59880   60950   61545
Savings  (KSh/T)                            0    9.35   18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7
Savings  (mill KSh)                         0    0.374   0.844   0.941   1.035   1.098   1. 20   1.140   1.151
II. Cost Saving in Ginning Cotton
Lint ginned by ginneries being
improved (T)                           8484   10012   11610   12907   14198   17605   17962   18283   18462
Savings (KSh/T of lint)                     o      262     526      788      788      788      788     788      788
Savin,gs (mill KSh)                         0    2.623   6.107  10.171  11.188  13.873  14.154  14.407  14.548
IV. Increased Lint Production due to
Higher Gfnning Outturn
Lint ginned by ginneries being
improved (T)                           8484   10012   11610   12907   14198   17605   17962   18283   18462
Increment stemming from increase in
ginning % from 33% to 35% (T)             0      202     469      782      860    1067    1089    1108    1119
Value of lint 4zeighted average)
ex-ginnery (KSh/T)                    20700   20700   20700   20700   20700   20700   20700   20700   20700
Benefit (mill KSh)                          0    4.181   9.708  16.187  17.802  22.087  22.542  22.936  23.163
V.  Net Value of Induced Raw Cotton
Production
Induced production (T, raw cotton)       1745    4195    6440    8200    9650   10490   10985   11490   11670
Economic value of raw cotton @
buying center (KSh/T)                  6012    6286    6690    6950    6950    6950    6950    6950    6950
Economic cost of production of raw
cotton @ buying center "Sh/T)          3509    3509    3509    3509    3509    3509    3509    3509    3509
Net Economic value of raw cotton
e buying center (KSh/T)                2503    2777    3181    3441    3441    3441    3441    3441    3441
Net Benefit (mill KSh)                    4.368  11.650  20.486  28.216  33.206  36.096  37.799  39.537  40.156
Total Benefits (mill KSh)                 5.761  22.833  46.177  71.119  80.385  91.348  94.178  96.915  98.097



KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Economic Analysis
('000 K Sh, end-1981 prices)
Year            1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990-2001
Incremental Benefits          5761   22833   46177   71119   80385   91348   94178   96915   98097
Incremental Costs            90300   72769   65121   28753   23399   23399   23399   23399   23399
Net Incremental Benefits   -84539  -49936  -18944   42366   56986   67949   70779   73516   74698
Net Present Value at 16.0%   122177                                                                                           0
Net Present Value as % of Present Costs at 16.0%   46.5%
Internal Rate of Return   28.0%
October 26, 1981



61 -                             Chart I
KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
Organization Chart
Project Coordinating/
Ministry of               Steering Committee
Agriculture               (MOA; MOCD; MINFIN;
CBK; and CLSMB)
Permanent Government                    CLSMB
Supervision                                   I   - - - - - -   J
Parastatals Advisory Committee           Chairman
Inspector of Statutory Boards            Members
(Office of the President)        ..      Secretary                  External
Controller and Auditor General           CommitteesAudit
Treasury                                  Standing
Investments Division                      Tanding
(Ministry of Finance)
Monitoring and
Legal and            Managing Director             Evaluation
Administration           (Chief Executive)
Internal Audit
|  Technical Services    lOperations                      lFinancel
X Ginmng                       *Buying                           ZBudgeting
Repairs and Maintenance          Storage of Raw Cotton            Procurement
CivilI Works                   *ransport                         *Financ ing
pare Parts                      Marketing of Lint and Cotton     Accounting
Sed                            Payroll
Production of Raw Cotton
Quality Control
-*  _ -Coordination
........ Supervision
-  -  - Information                                                      World Bank - 22299



- 62 -
Chart 2
KENYA
COTTON PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Year     Pre- Project         PY1                PY2                PY3                PY4                PY5
Fiscal Year     1981/82            1982/83            1983/84            1984/85            1985/86            1986/87
Quarters   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
1. Project Implementation
Key Staff Appointed and in Post
Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment
Audit of Six Cooperative Unions
Formal Approval Institutional Arrangements:
-  Agreement CLSMB/Cornmercial Banks
Project Coordinating/Steering Committee Established
Work Plans and Budgets:
-  Preparation
-  Review by IDA                                                                                                                      |
-  Approval by Project C/S Committee
Local Personnel Appointed and in Post:
-  CLSMB and CLSMB and CBK
-  MOCD Audit Teams                                                                                         -    - _           - -           _   _ -       -
Storage Facilities:
-  Tender
-  Construction (%)                                                                             60%    -        %
-  Procurement of Equipment
Vehicle Purchase:
20            32                10                 10
- Buying Teams Pick-uPs (No.)
18            1 1               10                 10
-  Trucks (No.)
-  Cars (No.)
Training:
-  Program Preparation and Approval
-  Annual Evaluation
-  Construction of Center
Ginneries:
-  Rehabilitation
- AdTdentdoeral30%                                                                          50%           20%
. Civil Works I%)                                                            m        i             -   m                                                  |
. Procurement of Equipment
- Additional (New)
*Tender
*Civil Works 1%                                                                 m    m            
*Procurement of Equipment
Audit and Legal Services
-  Annual External Audit of Unions' Accounts
-  Legal Work for Establishing Ginning Companies
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Mid-Term Reveiw of Ginneries' Performance
2. IDA
Negotiations
Board Presentation
Effectiveness
Completion Date
Closing Datej
December  16,  1981                                                                                                                              World Bunk -23595



- 63 -
MATERIAL AVAILABLE INI IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES
1.        Projections of Cotton Production
Table 1   CLSMB : Cotton Production Quantities and
Values with Project - 1979/80-1984/85
Table 2   CLSMB : Cotton Production Quantities and
Values with Project - 1979/80-1990/91
Table 3   CLSMB : Cotton Production without Project
Table 4   Unions:  Cotton Production Quantities and
Values with Project
Table 5   Unions:  Cotton Production without Project
2.        Project Costs
Table 1   Project Cost Summary - by Component
Table 2   Project Cost Summary - by Category
Table 3a  Buying Costs
Table 3b  Buying Costs:  Buying Teams
Table 4   Storage Costs
Table 5   Transport Costs
Table 6a  Ginneries:  Investment Costs
Table 6b  Ginneries:  Operating Costs
Table 6c  Ginneries:  Operating Costs for a Ginnery of
20 Gins
Table 7   Technical Assistance Costs
Table 8   Audit and Legal Services Costs
Table 9   CLSMB Incremental Working Capital
Table 10  Training Costs
3.        Investments by Institution
Table 1   CLSMB   Investment Breakdown
Table 2   CLSMB : Investment Breakdown by Type of Loan
Table 3   Unions: Investment Breakdown
Table 4   Unions: Investment Breakdown by Type of Loan
Table 5   CBK   : Investment Breakdown
Table 6   MOCD  : Investment Breakdown
Table 7   Project Investment Breakdown by Type of Loan
4.        Loan Repayment Schedules
Table la  CLSMB : Loan Repayment Schedule
Table lb  CLSMB :  Incremental Working Capital Repayment
Schedule
Table 2   CLSMB : Recurrent Cost Loan Repayment Schedule
Table 3   CLSMB : Other Loan Repayment Schedule
Table 4   Unions:  Loan Repayment Schedule
Tabie 5   CBK   : Loan Repayment Schedule



- 64 -
5.        Cash Flows of Project Entities
Table 1   CLSMB : Cash Flow with Project - 1979/80-2000/2001
Table 2   CLSMB    Cash Flow with Project - 1979/80-1984/85
Table 3   CLSMB : Cash Flow without 2roject
Table 4   Unions:  Cash Flow with Project
Table 5   Unions:  Cash Flow without Project
Table 6   GOK   : Cash Flow
6.        Terms of Reference for Key Project Staff
7.        Documents Available in the Project File
1.        Documents related to Project
1.1       Cotton Marketing and Processing Project - Preparation Report,
Ministry of Agriculture (February 1980j
1.2       Working Paper No. 1:  Aspects of Cotton Production in Kenya
1.3       Working Paper No. 2:  Buying, Storage, and Ginning Development
1.4       Project Correspondence
1.6       Briefing Papers for IDA Appraisal Mission
1.7       Note on Proposed Lending Facility to be Extended by Consortium
of Commercial Banks to CLSMB
2.        Documents related to Cotton Production, Marketing and Processing
Sector Analvsis
2.1       The Competitive Position of Cotton Production in Kenya, Land and
Farm Management Division, Ministry of Agriculture (February 1977)
2.2       Report to the Cotton Lint and Seed Mlarketing Board, Mr. Mahdavi
(October 1977)
2.3       Cotton Production in the Lake Victoria Basin of Kenya, Dunstan
A. Obara, University of Nairovi (April 1979)
2.4       Survey of the Cotton Industry with emphasis on Seed Cotton Buying
and Prices, Ministry of Agriculture (September 1979)
2.5       The Outlook for Cotton, 1980/81 Agricultural Price Review,
Ministry of Agriculture (Fall 1980)
Cotton Development Programme
2.6       Cotton Development Plan, 1977-1979, CLSHB (July 1977)
2.7       Cotton Development Programme (March 1980)



- 65 -
Seed Cotton Buying and Ginning
2.8       Guidelines on the Operation of the Cotton Buying Season, 1978/79,
CLSNB (October 1978)
2.9       Cotton Buying and Payment Procedure - Meru, CLSMB (June 1977)
2.10      Tour of the Chairman of CLSMB in Myanza/Western Provinces, June
1980
2.11      Cotton Ginning in Kenya, Project and Processing Department,
CLSMB (1975)
2.12      Ginneries:  Present Condition of 'lachines and Buildings and
Proposals for Improvement, M.A. Mlano, CLSMB3 (November 1978)
Marketing of Cotton Lint
2.13      Cotton Lint Selling Prices, CLSYIB (October 1979)
2.14      Draft Agreement of Sales of Cotton Lint, CLSMB (September 1979)
Research
2.15      Annual Report of Tebere Cotton Research Station, 1977-78
Tebere Cotton Research Station
3.        Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB)
3.1       The Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Act, Laws of Kenya Chapter 335
3.2       CLSMB Budgets:  July 1980/June 1981, CLS>B, June 1980
3.3       CLSMB Accounting Procedure Circulars
3.4       CLSMB and Ginneries' Accounts, 1972/73 to 1975/76
3.5       CLSMB and Ginneries' Accounts 1978 and 1979
3.6       Correspondence related to financing of CLSMB operations
3.7       Note on Cotton Price Assistance Fund
3.8       Mlinutes of CLSMB Board Meetings, March-July 1980
4.        Cooperative Unions and Societies
4.1       National Cooperative Development Plan 1976-1980,
Department of Cooperative Development (October 1977)
4.2       Western Province Annual Report for 1978,
Ministry of Cooperative Development
4.3       Coast Province Annual Report for 1978,
Ministry of Cooperative Development
4.4       Nyanza Province Annual Report for 1978,
Ministry of Cooperative Development
4.5       Financial Accounts - Kendu 3ay Farmers' Union
4.6       Financial Accounts - Luanda Farmers' Union
4.7       Financial Accounts - Malaba/Malakisi Farmers' Union
4.8       Financial Accounts - Nambale Farmers' Union
4.9       Financial Accounts - Siaya District Union
4.10      Financial Accounts - Victoria Farmers' Union
4.11       Plan of Operation for Farm Input Supply Scheme,
Department of Cooperative Development (November 1976)



- 66 -
4.12      Manual on the MT-Cotton System, Department of Cooperative
Development (March 1978)
4.13      Manual on Accounting, Budgeting, Statistics, Department of
Cooperative Development
4.14      Budgeting Guide to the Manual on Accounting, Budgeting and
Statistics, Cooperative College (June 1971)
5.        Banking Institutions
5.1       The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd., (December 1978)
5.2       Annual Report and Accounts, 1979, Cooperative Bank of Kenya
5.3       Annual Report and Accounts, 1980, Cooperative Bank oi Kenya
5.4       Citicorp Annual Report and Form 10-K, 1979
5.5       Annual Report, 1979, First Chicago Corporation
5.6       Annual Report and Accounts, 1977, Industrial Development Bank Limited
5.7       Annual Report and Accounts, 1978, Industrial Develooment 3ank Limited
5.8       Reports and Accounts, December 1979, The Standard 3ank Limited
5.9       Reports and Accounts, December 1979, Standard Chartered 3ank Limited
5.10      Schedule of Investments as at December 1979, Industrial Develonment
Bank Limited
6.        Miscellaneous
6.1       Review of Statutory Boards, Ndegwa Commission (May 1979)
6.2       Kenya's Textile Industry, Ministry of Commerce and Industry
6.3       Report of a Mission to Appraise and Advise on Accelerated Oilseed
Production and Utilization in Kenya, Commonwealth DeVeloDment
Corporation (February/'March 1977)
6.4       Yields, Costs, Prices:  1980, Ministry of Agriculture (March 1980)
6.5a       fachakos District Annual Report, Ministry oi Agriculture (1978)
6.5b      Coast Province Annual Reoort, Ministry of Agriculture (1978)
6.6       Working Procedures for Field Officers, Department of Cooperative
Development (January 1973)
6.7       Report on Cotton Growing in Uganda, The British Cotton Growing
Association Ltd. (1980)



/  D A N.O~A 
'x-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'
IN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
'~ZOIA        FT,M       
'7  4ES ER ~ ~      ~       ~      ~        A S              Rr4                  /A~
V.A    L  L   F  Y  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAF    
/'S   *O  - 
i,4    N   Nbl Ap
jN KA                                     M9RAN~ / k 
'N~~~~~~~~~~) 
7                                                                  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANA R!VIER
KENYA                                                                                        2
COTTON  PROCESSING                                                                                     tAMj /:
AND MARKETING PROJECT 
NI q
T A   z     N1 I A



