0F#(.%A      CREDIT NUMBER 1237 KE
Project Agreement
(Cotton Processing and Marketing Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COTTON LINT AND SEED MARKETING BOARD
Dated        cut.           /     , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1237 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             ,     4    /             , 1983,
between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and COTTON LINT AND SEED MARKETING BOARD (here-
inafter called the Board).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eighteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 18,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
the Board agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya, part of
the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to the Cooperative Bank
of Kenya for relending to the Board on the terms and conditions
of a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between
the Cooperative Bank of Kenya and the Board; and
WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Board shall carry out its responsibilities
under Parts A, B, C, D, E (i) and E (ii) of the Project described


﻿- 2 -
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency, in accordance with the applicable provi-
sions of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricul-
tural and commercial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Board undertakes to insure, or to make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the loan to be made to it by CBK
pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Board to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the loan made
pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.04. (a) The Board shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Board: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B, C, D,
E (i) and E (ii) of the Project (including their cost and the
benefits to be derived from them), to identify the goods and
services financed under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in said Parts of the Project and


﻿-3-
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the loan
made pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association and the Project Coordinating and Steering Committee
at regular intervals all such information as the Association and
the Project Coordinating and Steering Committee shall reasonably
request concerning said parts of the Project, their cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, six-monthly progress reports on the execution of the
Project. The format of such progress reports shall be acceptable
to the Association.
(c)  Upon the award by the Board of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
loan made pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Board
and the Association, the Board shall prepare, with the assistance
of MOCD and CBK, and furnish to the Association and the Project
Coordinating and Steering Committee a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by the Board, MOCD, the cooperatives, CBK, and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Development Credit Agreement, and the Letter Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e)   The Board shall enable the Association's represen-
tatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of the Board and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.05. (a) The Board shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to


﻿-4-
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiiry. Financing Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purp, es of the Credit.
(b)  'he Board shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Board of its obligations
under   this  Agreement   and  under   the  Subsidiary   Financing
Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) The Board shall take all measures neces-
sary to transfer responsibility for purchasing and transport of
seed cotton, processing and all storage incidental thereto, to
cooperatives to the extent the cooperatives are able to assume
such increased responsibilities in accordance with sound manage-
ment practices. The Board and CBK shall jointly carry out, by
December 31, 1984 at the latest, a comprehensive review of the
ability of the cooperatives to carry out such functions and the
progress realized in management performance.
(b)   If the review required pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section shows that, in the judgment of the Board and CBK, in
consultation with the Association, any cooperatives would not be
able to assume the responsibilities set out in said paragraph
before the date specified in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement for completion of the Project, the Board and CBK shall
examine and propose alternative arrangements for the operation of
such functions.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Board
Section 3.01. The Board shall at all times carry on its
operations and manage its affairs in accordance with appropriate
agricultural, commercial, economic, financial and administrative
practices, and under qualified management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Board shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory


﻿-5-
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 'practice.
Section 3.03. (a) The Board shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, facilities, equipment and other property in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices and shall make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof promptly as required.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Board shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets other than in the ordinary
course of its business.
Section 3.04. (a) The Board shall maintain separate accounts
with respect to its farm input operations, including financing of
farm inputs, and all sources of such financing shall be clearly
identified.
(b)  The Board shall take all steps necessary to phase out
its financing of farm inputs in an orderly manner. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, it shall complete such phase-
out by July 1, 1983 at the latest.
Section 3.05. The Board shall not undertake any investments
or financial commitments other than those set forth in, or
covered by, Annual Plans approved by the Association and the
Project Coordinating and Steering Committee in accordance with
Section 9 of Part II of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement.    If any investment or financial commitments are
required that are not set forth in, or covered by, such Annual
Plans, the approval of the Association shall be obtained before
they are undertaken.   Such approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
Section 3.06. With respect to the establishment of the
prices of seed cotton, cotton lint and cotton seed, the Board
shall, to the extent of its powers, comply with the provisions of
Section 3.07 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement and shall
exchange views and information with the Association as provided
for the Borrower under Section 3.07 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Board shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)  Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing,
the Board shall maintain separate accounts to reflect all its
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project,
including separate accounts reflecting all expenditures .described
in Sub-category (5) (a) and Category (6) of the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures.
(c)   The Board shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Board shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such,
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures, records and documentation referred to in
Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of
the loan made available to the Board under the Subsidiary Financ-
ing Agreement on the basis of certificates of expenditures have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Board and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-7-a
-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Board thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance -with its terms; or
(ii)  a date 12 years after the Effective Date of this
Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Board of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancel-
lation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Board:
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing
Board
P.O. Box 30477
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                    Telex:
KENCOT                          22740
Nairobi
Section  6.02. Any   action   required  or  permitted  to  be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of the Board may be taken or
executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons
as the Managing Director shall designate in writing, and the
Board shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿9
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
COTTON LINT AND SEED MARKETING BOARD
9
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   Internattonal Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Board shall- prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Board shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.    To the extent possible, contracts for vehicles and equip-
ment shall be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit
bulk procurement. All procurement for the cooperatives shall be
carried out on behalf of the cooperatives by the Board in accor-
dance with the Annual Plans.
4.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken


﻿- 11 -
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.     All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Board and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 12 -
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works shall be carried out under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accor-
dance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $30,000 each may be awarded on the basis
of solicitations of price quotations from at least three
suppliers, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts
shall not exceed $600,000 equivalent.
3.     Contracts for the purchases of goods estimated to cost
between the equivalent of $30,000 and $100,000 each may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally,
in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association
provided that the aggregate value of such contracts shall not
exceed $600,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Board shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 13 -
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, the Board
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Board and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Board shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Board
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.     Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Board shall inform


﻿- 14 -
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Board and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 a-.
FOR SECRETARY


