O.0FICIAL    CREDIT NUMBER 1237 KE
%OCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Cotton Processing and Marketing Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         oAY   Jr,   (      , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1237 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           -                         , 1983,
between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts C, E (i) and E (ii) of the Project will be
carried out by the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (herein-
after called the Board) and Parts A, B and D of the Project will
be carried out by the Board and cooperatives, all with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the Board and the cooperatives through the
Cooperative Bank of Kenya (hereinafter called CBK) part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) Part F of the Project will be carried out by CBK with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the Credit available
to CBK as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Board, and in a letter agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and CBK;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "Board" means   the  Cottn   Tint and   Seed  Marketing
Board, a body corporate established and operating pursuant to
the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Act (Cap. 335 of the Laws of
Kenya) and the Regulations made thereunder;
(c)  "CBK" means the Cooperative Bank of Kenya, a body
corporate established and operatiT-.g pursuant to the Cooperative
Societies Act (Cap. 490 of the Laus of Kenya) and licensed as a
bank under the Banking Act (Cap. 488 of the Laws of Kenya);
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and CBK pursuant to Sec-
tion 1 (a) of Part II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan"
means the loan to be made by the Borrower to CBK pursuant to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)  "Project Year" means the period from the first day of
July in any calendar year through the thirtieth may of June next
following, except that the first Project Year means the period
from the date of this Agreement through the thirtieth day of June
1983;
(f)  "MOCD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Cooperative
Development;
(g)  "cooperatives" means cooperative unions or cooperative
societies, or both, depending on the context, which are engaged
to a significant extent in post-harvest cotton operations;
(h)  "Revolving Credit" means the revolving line of credit
to be made available to the Board by a consortium of banks


﻿-3-
pursuant to the letter of commitment dated January 28, 1983, and
the "Revolving Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Board and the consortium of banks
pursuant to the said letter of commitment and providing for the
Revolving Credit;
(i) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between CBK and the Board pursuant to Section 2
(a) of Part III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(j)   "Letter Agreement" means the agreement of even date
with this Agreement between CBK and the Association with respect
to the execution and the financing of the Project; and
(k)   "Project Coordinating and Steering Committee" means
the committee to be convened in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to eighteen million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to thic Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Sectior. 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1992, and ending
February 15, 2032, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the pu,rposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall exercise any right, power or remedy available to it so as
to permit the Board and CBK to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and the Letter Agreement, all the obligations therein set
forth, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out Part E (iii) of the
Project through its Ministry of Cooperative Development and
shall, through said Ministry, cause the cooperatives to carry out
their responsibilities under Parts A, B and D of the Project, all
with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the applic-
able provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in conformity


﻿- 5 -
with appropriate administrative, cooperative, accounting, engi-
neering and management practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records
adequate to record the progress of Part E (iii) of the Project
and of Parts A, B and D of the Project to the extent applicable
to cooperatives, and shall maintain and cause the cooperatives to
maintain separate accounts to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of such Parts
of the Project, of the MOCD and the cooperatives, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures described in Sub-category (5) (b) of the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures.
(b)   The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Clos-.ng Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate
accounts referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Controller and Auditor
General for MOCD and the Audit and Accounts Division of MOCD for
the cooperatives; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. In order to ensure effective cooperation and
coordination among the agencies of the Borrower and the other
entitles participating in the execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the representatives hereinafter specified of
such agencies and entities to meet at least twice yearly as a
committee (hereinafter sometimes also called the Project Coordi-
nating and Steering Committee) in order to review the progress of
the Project, to review the six-monthly reports referred to in
Section 2.04 (b) of the Project Agreement, and to review and
approve proposed Annual Plans. The Committee will be composed of
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance (Chairman),
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Permanent Secretary of the MOCD or the Commissioner for Coopera-
tive Development, the General Manager of CBK, and the Managing
Director of the Board, or their duly authorized representatives.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through its AOCD, shall promptly
provide the Board with all information reasonably requested by it
in the operation of the monitoring and evaluation system to be
established pursuant to Section 5 of Part II of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and in the preparation of the report required by
Section 2.04 (d) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) Tne Borrower, through its MOCD, shall
ensure that cooperatives involved in ginning operations shall not
undertake any investments or financial commitments with respect
to their Project-related operations other than those set forth
in, or covered by, Annual Plans approved by the Association and
the Project Coordinati.-g and Steering Committee in accrrdance
with Section 9 of Part II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement If any
such investments or financial commitments are desired to be made
that are not set forth in, or covered by such Annual Plans, the
approval of the Association and the Project Coordinating and
Steering Committee shall be obtained before they are undertaken.
(b) With respect to any investments or financial commit-
ments relating to the other operations of such cooperatives, the
Borrower, through its MOCD, shall ensure that appropriate consul-
tations are undertaken with the Board, CBK and the Association
with respect to such investments or financial commitments.
Section 3.07. (a) To the extent that the Borrower or any of
its agencies exercises any control over the prices of seed


﻿-7-
cotton, cotton lint and cotton seed, the Borrower shall ensure
that such prices shall be set at appropriate levels, taking into
account the application of the following criteria: (i) providing
farmers with adequate incentives to produce seed cotton; (ii)
ensuring the financial viability of the institutions involved in
cotton processing and marketing activities; and (iii) ensuring
parity with international cotton price levels.
(b) The   Borrower   and  the   Association  shall   annually
exchange views on the application of the above criteria with
respect to prices of seed cotton, cotton lint and cotton seed,
and shall provide each other with such information in their
possession as may be,relevant thereto.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a)  the Board shall have failed to perform 'any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Board under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(b) CBK   shall   have  failed  to   perform  any  covenant,
agreement or obligation of CBK under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or
the Letter Agreement;
(c)  the Borrower's Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Act
(Cap. 335 of the Laws of Kenya) or the Cooperative
Societies Act (Cap. 490 of the Laws of Kenya) shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of the Board or CBK to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement or the Letter Agreement;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Board or CBK will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Letter Agreement, respectively;


﻿-8-
(e)  the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablish- ment of the Board or CBK or for the
suspension of their respective operations;
(f)  (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Board to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of the Revolving Credit shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Revolving Credit Agreement, or
(B) the Revolving Credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Board to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the proper operation of
the Board are available to it from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Board under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and to
the Board or CBK, as appropriate; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c), (e) or (f) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf
of the Borrower and CBK;
(b) the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been signed on
behalf of the CBK aid the Board;
(c) the heads of the Departments of Technical Services and
Finance referred to in Section 5 of Part II of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the senior financial analyst referred to in Section
8 of Part II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall have been
appointed and shall have taken up their positions;
(d) the Revolving Credit Agreement referred to in Section
1.02 (h) of this Agreement shall have been signed by the relevant
parties and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of such
agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall
have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Board, and is legally binding upon the
Board in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the    Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement has been    duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CBK and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and CBK in accordance
with its terms;
(c) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by CBK and the Board and is
legally binding upon the CBK and the Board in accord-
ance with its terms;


﻿- 10 -
(d)  that the Letter Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CBK and is legally binding upon CBK in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date    2                        is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02. of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twelve years after the Effective Date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United Stites of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                  80%
(a) Board                     2,550,000
(b) Cooperatives              1,280,000
(2) Vehicles                       2,470,000     100% of foreign
expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Equipment                      4,080,000     100% of foreign
expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
ture,,
(4) Consultants',                                100% of foreign
experts' and                                expenditures
professional                                and 80% of
services                                    local expendi-
tures
(a) Board                     1,360,000
(b) CBK                         510,000
(5) Incremental                                  25%
operating ex-
penses of:


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(a) Board                       220,000
(b) Cooperatives                850,000
(c) CBK                          40,000
(6) Incremental ginning            2,640,000      80%
fees and purchases
of seed cotton
by the Board
(7) Unallocated                    2,700,000
TOTAL         18,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the   term  "operating  expenses" means   salaries  and
allowances of local personnel and operation and maintenance of
buildings, offices, vehicles and equipment of the Board, CBK and
cooperatives and the term "incremental operating expenses" means
such operating expenses incurred specifically for the execution
of the Project;
(d) the term "incremental ginning fees and purchases of
seed cotton" means for each Project Year, up to the maximum
amounts indicated hereinafter, the excess of ginning fees and
purchased amounts of seed cotton (both expressed in bales of lint
equivalent) over: for the first Project Year, 59,000 bales; for


﻿- 14 -
the second Project Year, 64,000 bales; for the third Project
Year, 69,100 bales; and for the fourth Project Year, 73,400
bales.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the maximum
amounts of incremental ginning fees and purchases of seed cotton
shall be: for the first Project Year, 7,200 bales; for the second
and fourth Project Years, zero bales; and for the third Project
Year, 6,900 bales.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(i) prior to April 27, 1982;
(ii)  during the second, third, and fourth Project Year,
respectively,   until  the   Association  and  the
Project Coordinatin6 and Steering Committee shall
have approved the Annual Plan for such Project
Year, except that withdrawals may be made for the
appropriate percentage of expenditures to be
financed in respect of Category (5) on account of
expenditures prior to such approval of the Annual
Plan for any Project Year to the extent that funds
were allocated for such expenditures in the Annual
Plan approved by the Association and the Project
Coordinating   and  Steering   Committee  for  the
previous Project Year and remain unspent;
(iii) during any Project Year if the Association shall
have reasonably determined that such expenditures
are not in accordance with the provisions of the


﻿- 15 -
Annual Plan approved by the Association and the
Project Coordinating and Steering Committee for
such Project Year;
(iv) in respect of Category (6) for any Project Year if
the incremental ginning fees and purchases of seed
cotton in such Project Year are less than those in
the Project Year immediately preceding; and
(v) in respect of Categories (1) and (3) for gin-
neries unless the investment plans referred to in
Section 4 (b) of Part II of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion and the Project Coordinating and Steering
Committee.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures  in   order  that  further withdrawals    under  such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Project
The Project is designed to rehabilitate and expand cotton
processing facilities and to improve the distribution and market-
ing of cotton.
I.   Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Improvement of the Board's and cooperatives' seed
cotton buying practices.
Part B:   Reorganization of the transportation of seed cotton
from buying centers to ginneries through:
(i) coordination by the Board of all seed cotton
transportation; and
(ii) purchase and utilization by the Board and coopera-
tives  of   appropriate  transport  vehicles   and
related equipment.
Part C:   Improvement of the Board's seed cotton storage and
cotton lint warehousing facilities through:
(i) renovation of existing stores and warehouses;
(ii) construction of new stores and warehouses;
(iii) construction of a rail connection between the
Mombasa warehouse and the railway line; and
(iv) expansion of the Board's vehicle and equipment
fleet.
Part D:   (i) Improvement,   rehabilitation  and   expansiOd  of
existing ginneries operated by the Board and
cooperatives;
(ii) construction of one new ginnery to replace the
Kendu Bay ginnery; and


﻿- 17 -
(iii) refinement of the grading system for cotton lint.
Part E:   Improvement of the institutions in the cotton sub-
sector through:
(i) institutional improvement of the Board through,
inter  alia, adjustment   of   its  organizational
structure,   adoption   of   improved   management
systems,  and   recruitment  of   staff  for   key
positions;
(ii) establishment of a training program for the Board
and cooperatives; and
(iii) improvement   of   the  Ministry   of   Cooperative
Development's capability to provide guidance to
cooperatives and to examine and audit their
operations.
Part F:   Assistance by the Cooperative Bank of Kenya to the
institutions in the cotton sub-sector and strengthening of CBK
through:
(i) evaluation of investments to be proposed under the
Project;
(ii) advising   the   Board  and  cooperatives  on   the
establisiment of sound financial procedures;
(iii) administration, jointly with the First National
Bank of Chicago, of the Revolving Credit; and
(iv) recruitment of qualified financial analysts.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.
II. Execution of the Project
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Project
shall be carried out as follows:
1.   Part A:
During the seed cotton buying season, about thirty-six


﻿- 18 -
mobile buying teams will be operated, each composed of a sub-team
for buying and a sub-team for paying. To the extent such teams
cannot be formed by the cooperatives, they shall be established
by the Board.
The buying schedule will be established by the Board and
promptly communicated to the cooperatives.      It will be esta-
blished in such manner as to encourage timely planting and
harvesting
Payment will be made within two weeks. of the Board's
acceptance of delivery and will take into account any necessary
set-offs for debt service.
2.   Part B:
The Board shall coordinate the transportation of all seed
cotton from buying centers to ginneries.     All truck scheduling
will be centralized under the Board's Operations Manager. The
Board's and the cooperatives' fleets of vehicles and equipment
will be modernized by the acquisition of, inter alia, forty-five
7-1/2-ton trucks, and four 15-ton trucks with trailers. At the
same time as seed cotton is collected, cotton inputs will be
delivered to the buying centers. The Board will take the neces-
sary   steps  to  ensure   that,  after   consultation  with   the
Association, the Board's fleet of vehicles and related equipment
will be gradually transferred to cooperatives (or to the private
transport sector to the extent necessary) by January 1, 1986 at
the latest.
3.   Part C:
Until the improvements in cotton buying, distribution and
processing under the Project will have been made, the need for
temporary storage of seed cotton at buying centers will be met by
the repair of about 127 field stores belonging to the Board and
by the construction of new stores in locations to be determined
by the Board on the basis of need.       The new stores will be
operated by the Board and, where appropriate, by cooperatives,
and will be designed in such manner as to be suitable for other
purposes when seed cotton storage requirements will have been
reduced or eliminated.
Warehousing capacity for cotton lint will be expanded to
accommodate approximately five months' supply to the mills.


﻿- 19 -
Increased warehousing capacity will also be provided for grading,
storage of parts and ancillary processing operations. The follow-
ing additional warehousing capacity will be built:
Additional
Use/Location                               capacity (m2)
Lint storage: Kisumu                                 700
Eldoret                             1,100
Thika                               2,500
Mombasa                              1,100
Lint grading: Thika                                  450
Spare parts
and ancillary
operations:   Thika                                1,000
In addition, the Board's existing warehouse in Mombasa will     be
repaired and a railway connection between the Mombasa warehouse
and the railway line will be constructed.
The Board's vehicle and equipment fleet will be expanded so
as to make optimum use of existing and newly constructed ware-
housing space.
4.   Part D:
(a)  The ginneries at Hola, Mwea, Meru and Makueni will be
improved.
The ginneries at Malaba-Malakisi, Nambale, Luanda, Ndere
and Homa Bay will be rehabilitated and expanded.
The ginnery at Kendu Bay will be replaced by a new ginnery,
under joint Board-cooperative management.
The ginneries to be rehabilitated and expanded, and the new
ginneries to be built, will have 20 double roller gins, enough
storage space to accommodate the buying and transport systems to
be implemented under the Project, a weighing platform, a suction
system to handle incoming seed cotton, and new power plants. The
necessary recruitment will be carried out to ensure that all
ginneries will have key staff composed of: (i) a manager, (ii) a
senior mechanic as deputy manager, (iii) a shift supervisor, (iv)


﻿- 20 -
an accountant, (v) a senior clerk for stores and spare parts, and
(vi) a Board field officer.
(b)   Ownership and management of the ginneries at Meru,
Makueni, Hola, and once completed, the ginpery in the Kerio
Valley, shall be transferred from the Board to the cooperative
unions concerned. Prior to such transfers of ownership and
management responsibilities, plans to accomplish each such
transfer shall be prepared by the Board, in cooperation with the
cooperative union concerned, and shall be forwarded to the
Association and the Project Coordinating and Steering Committee
for approval.
(c)   In order to constitute more homogeneous lots, a new
intermediary quality grade of cotton lint will be introduced
between AR and BR.
5.   Part E (i):
The Board will adjust its organizational structure as
follows:
(a)  Four regional offices will be established: one office
for the Eastern and Central provinces combined and one office for
each of the Nyanza, Western and Coast provinces. Each regional
office will be staffed with a regional manager, who will be in
charge of the office, one ginneries inspector, and supporting
staff as appropriate.
(b)   Seven sub-regional offices will be maintained; they
will be staffed with an area manager and supporting staff as
appropriate.
(c) A field officer will be posted at each ginnery.
(d) A new Legal and Administrative Division will be estab-
lished at headquarters. The head of this Division will report
directly to the Managing Director.
(e)  A new Monitoring and Evaluation Division will also be
esta.lished.  The functions of this new division will be, inter
alia: (1) to collect statistics and other information on Project
components, (2) to assess progress in the fulfillment of objec-
tives set out in the Annual Plans, (3) to measure actual expen-
ditures against budgets, and (4) to identify problems and


﻿- 21 -
constraints for timely adjustment and reorientation of Project
Activities.
The Board shall take such other managerial and organiza-
tional measures as to enable it to support, monitor, and advise
the relevant ministries of the Borrower on all aspects of the
cotton  industry, including: (a) seed     cotton   production  and
harvesting, (b) seed cotton buying and payment systems, (c)
ginning operations, (d) lint and      seed  quality control, (e)
domestic and international marketing of lint and cotton seed, (f)
manpower and training requirements, and (g) the development of
the cotton sector in general.
The Board will improve its management procedures through,
inter alia, the establishment of effective procedures for report-
ing, monitoring and evaluation, budgetary and financial control
and procurement.
In order to assist the Board in carrying out its responsi-
bilities under the Project, the Board shall employ duly qualified
people to head the Departments of (a) Technical Services, (b)
Operations, and (c) Finance, and the Divisions of (a) Lint and
Cotton Seed Marketing, (b) Monitoring and Evaluation, and (c)
Legal and Administration. The qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of said department heads shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
In addition, the Board shall employ such consultants,
experts and professionals as may be required under the Annual
Plans. All such consultants, experts and professionals shall have
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers aid by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
6. Part E (ii):
In consultation with MOCD, the Board shall establish a
detailed training program for its staff and the members of
cooperatives. Such program shall set forth: (a) main objectives;
(b) types of training to be provided; (c) training needs in
terms of the numbers, categories and levels of personnel required
and the timing thereof; (d) arrangements for the administration,


﻿- 22 -
monitoring and evaluation of the training program, and (e) bud-
getary and financial requirements.   As -art of the preparation of
such program, detailed investment pr(     i1s for the construction
of a training center at Mwea will be prepared. The Board shall
submit the training programi to the Association for its review and
comment by October 31, 1983 and to the Project Coordinating and
Steering Committee for its approval promptly thereafter and, in
any event, not later than December 31, 1983.
7.   Part E (iii):
The Ministry of Cooperative Development will base eight teams
of accountants and auditors in the cotton producing areas. These
teams will assist cooperatives in improving management and
accounting practices and financial controls, and in the recruit-
ment and training of cooperative staff.
8.   Part F:
(a)   For the purpose of assisting it in the execution of
Part F of the Project, CBK will recruit one senior financial
analyst and four junior financial analysts. The senior financial
analyst will be responsible for organizing the lending operations
to cooperatives under the Project and to recruit and train the
four junior financial analysts to assist him in administering such
loan program.
(b)  Before the improvement, rehabilitation and expansion of
existing ginneries and the ccnstruction of the new ginnery under
Part D of the Project are undertaken, CBK, jointly with the Board
and in cooperation with MOCD and the cooperative union concerned,
shall carry out a feasibility study on the technical, financial
and managerial aspects of each of the ginneries' operation and a
detailed investment plan will be prepared for each ginnery. As
part of such feasibility study, an initial comprehensive audit of
each of the cooperatives shall be carried out as soon as possible
by independent auditors acceptable to MOCD and the Association.
Said auditors shall be retained by CBK and it shall furnish to the
Association a certified copy of the audit reports as soon as
availbl0e. The investment plans for each cooperative union will be
forwarded to the Association and the Project Coordinating and
Steering Cpmmittee for approval.


﻿- 23 -
9.   Annual Plans:
(a)  The Project shall be carried out in accordance with
Annual Plans to be prepared and approved in accordance with the
provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 9. The Annual
Plans shall consist of detailed programs and budgets for each
component of the Project to be carried out during the period
covered by the Plan. They shall also contain a description of
the other activities of the cooperatives during the Plan period,
and the manner in which such activities will be financed.   The
format of the Annual Plan shall be agreed upon between the
Board, the Borrower, CBK, and the Association.
(b)  The Board shall be responsible for the preparation of
the Annual Plans, with the cooperation of CBK, the cooperatives
and the Borrower. The Board's regional managers and the MOCD's
district cooperative officers will start the data collection and
the preparation of next year's programs and budgets, and will
obtain the relevant data from the cooperatives in their region,,
in a timely manner so as to allow consolidation and completion
of the draft Annual Plan by the Board, with the assistance of
CBK and the Borrower, at least two months prior to the start of
the next Project Year. The Board will obtain the approval of the
Treasury (and make any modifications deemed necessary) to the
draft Plan and forward it to the Association for approval by
March 31 at the latest.     Upon approval of the draft by the
Association (and incorporation of any changes upon which the
Association may have conditioned its approval), the Board will
present the draft Plan to all members of the Permanent Coordi-
nating and Steering Committee. A copy of such draft shall be
forwarded to the Association. The Association's approval shall
be obtained for all material changes required by the Permanent
Coordinating and Steering Committee. The Committee's approval,
as well as the text of and reasons for any material changes,
shall be communicated directly to the Association by the Chair-
man of the Committee or his designated representative. Promptly
upon receipt of notification of the approval of the draft by the
Committee, or upun approval of the Committee's material changes
to the draft by the Association, the Association shall notify
the Borrower, the Board, and CBK that the condition of disburse-
ment set forth in paragraph 4 (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment has been satisfied with respect to such Project Year.


﻿- 24 -
III. Financing of the Project
1.   (a) The Borrower shall lend $21.1 million equivalent to CBK
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and CBK under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and which shall include, inter alia,
that: (i) the interest rate shall be 10% per annum; and (ii) the
repayment period shall be determined at the end of the first
Project Year, and    shall be adjusted annually thereafter, to
correspond to the weighted average repayment period of the sub-
loans made by CBK in accordance with paragraph 2 (c) below.
(b)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, neither the Borrower nor CBK shall assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
2.    (a)  CBK shall lend $11.9 million equivalent to the Board
under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between
CBK and the Board on terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Borrower and the Association and which shall
include the terms set forth in paragraph (c) below.
(b)  CBK shall lend $9.1 million equivalent to the coopera-
tives under loan agreements to be entered into between CBK and
the cooperatives, the standard terms and conditions of which
shall have been approved by the Borrower and the Association and
which shall include the terms set forth in paragraph (c) below.
If the feasibility studies, referred to in Section 8 (ii) of Part
II of Schedule 2 should indicate that any cooperatives are not
creditworthy according to CBK's normal banking criteria, CBK and
the Board shall work out detailed proposals to remedy the situa-
tion; such proposals shall be submitted to the Borrower and the
Association for their approval. CBK and the Board will work out,
in agreement with the Borrower and the cooperatives, detailed
arrangements to assure the repayment to CBK of the loans to be
made i.o the cooperatives under the Project.
(c) The principal lending terms for lending by CBK pursuant
to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 2 shall be:


﻿- 25 -
Maximum    Maximum
Items or                         Minimum Principal Grace
Activity    Amount               Annual   Repayment Period
to be     Equivalent            Interest   Period      (in
Financed  ($ million) Debtor(s)   Rate    (in years) years)
(A) Vehicles       4.3      Board;       13%        7        0
coopera-
tives
(B) Civil works    1.9      Board;       13%        7        2
for gin-               coopera-
nery rehab-            tives
bilitation
(C) Equipment      6.9      Board;       13%        7        2
for Mwea               coopera-
training               tives
center and
ginnery
rehabili-
tation
(D) Incre-         4.7       Board       13%       7         2
mental
ginning
fees and
purchases
of seed
cotton
(E) Ginnery        1.5       Coop-       13%       12        4
construction            erative
and equipment
(F) Equipment      0.4       Board;      13%       12        4
mobile                  coopera-
buying                  tives
and pay-
ing teams


﻿- 26 -
Maximum    Maximum
Items or                         Minimum  Principal   Grace
Activity    Amount               Annual    Repayment Period
to be     Equivalent            Interest   Period       (in
Financed  ($ million) Debtor(s)   Rate     (in years) years)
(G) Construc-      1.4       Board       13%        12         4
tion and
equipment
lint stor-
age facili-
ties and
spare parts
warehouses
(d)  The interest rates set forth in this Part III may be
adjusted from time to time in light of changes in the maximum
allowed loan   interest rate of commercial banks.        Prior  to
effectuating any change in said interest rates and in the three
percentage point spread between the interest rates at which CBK
borrows and relends proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall
consult with CBK and the Association on the impact of the
proposed change on the execution of the Project.
(e) The Board and CBK shall duly perform all their obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, neither the Board nor CBK
shall take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financ-
ing Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.     The Borrower shall make available as a grant all funds
necessary for: (a) the construction and equipment of multi-
purpose field storage facilities of the Board and cooperatives;
(b) the construction of the Mwea training center; (c)     consul-
tants', experts'   and professional services required under the
Project by the Board and CBK; and (d) incremental operating costs
of the Board and cooperatives through annual budget allocations
for MOA and MOCD.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198F                         E.
FOR SECRETARY


