CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 286 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELCPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 15, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 286 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 15, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of a part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Empresa Elkctrica "Quito" S.A.
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Empresa Electrica "Quito" S.A. the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Empresa Electrica "Quito" S.A.,
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
and
(c)   the words ", the Project Agreement" are inserted after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" wherever they occur in Section 6.06 and 8.02.


﻿4
Section 102. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the fol!-wing meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Empresa Elctrica "Quito" S,A. of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Emp;esa Electrica "Quito" S.A. pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Development Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended
from  time to time, and such term    includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "the  Company"   means Empresa    Eldctrica  "Quito" S.A., an
instrumentality of the Borrower, established and authorized to do business in
accordance with the laws of the Borrower, on October 25, 1955;
(d)   "Escritura" means the Escritura de Constitui6n of the Company, a
public deed dated September 29, 1955, providing for the creation of the Company;
(e)   "Estatutos"  means   the  estatutos  of  the  Company, dated
October 25, 1955;
(f)   "Prior Loan Agreements" means the loan agreements between the Bank
and the Company, dated March 29, 1956 and September 20, 1957, respectively;
and
(g)   "Mortgage" means an "hipoteca de primer grado " under the laws of
the Borrower, provided for in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($6,800,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 15   and  September 15   commencing March 15, 1982, and      ending
September 15, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 15, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)   In the event the Company repays to the Borrower any portion of
the proceeds of the Credit relent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in advance
of maturity, the Borrower shall promptly notify the Association and shall repay
to the Association on the next following payment date an amount of the principal
of the Credit equal to the portion of the proceeds so repaid.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
Section 2.09. The Company is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Company to carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency, under competent management and in
conformity with sound financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, or cause the Company to be provided with, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall
obtain, or enable the Company to obtain, from time to time whenever necessary,
such other loans or other financial accommodations, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, to finance such expenditures to be incurred by the
Company in the carrying out of the Project as shall not be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Company
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Company under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable the Company to perform
all of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere
with such performance.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary on its part
to enable the Company to maintain such rates for the sale of electric power as
shall be required for the Company to comply with the provisions of
Section 4.05 (a) of the Project Agreement.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, before June 30, 1974,
cause the Company to reduce such rates for the sale of electric power as were
in effect on January 1, 1972.
(c)   The provisions of this Section shall supersede all prior agreements
between the Borrower and the Bank concerning the Company's rates for the sale
of electric power.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the performance by the Company
of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures
of the Company and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower other than the Company responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿8
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of
the Company and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower other than the Company responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of their respective obligations under
this Development Credit Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower or the
Company of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Company and any relevant records
and documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Mortgage shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such
declaration such principal and service charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit Agreement
notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or interest
or any other payment required under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any other obligation
(i) on the part of the Company, under the Project Agreement or under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or (ii) on the part of the Borrower, under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   the Company shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Company or by others
whereby any of its property or assets shall or may be distributed among, or
administered for the benefit of, its creditors;
(d)   any creditor of the Company shall have demanded payment of monies
lent to the Company, prior to the agreed maturity of any loan having an original
maturity of one year or longer, in accordance with the terms of such loan;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Company or for the
suspension of its operations;
(f)   the  Decreto   Supremo    No.   86   of  the  Borrower,   dated
January 20, 197 1, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the


﻿10
Company to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Company will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and the Company;
(b)   Any event specified in paragraph (b) or in paragraph (f) of Section
7.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and the Company;
(c)   Any event specified in paragraph (c), or in paragraph (d), or in
paragraph (e) of Section 7.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Company have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Company, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   Contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, providing for
financing as required by Section 3.01 (b) of this Development Credit Agreement


﻿11
and by Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement have been maue initially to
satisfy the provisions of such Sections.
(d)  The consultants referred to in Section 2.02 (a) (ii) :nd (iii) of the
Project Agreement have been employed by the Compaiiy.
(e)   The Escritura and the Estatutos have been amended by the Company's
shareholders in accordance with the proposal referred to in S-ction 3.03 of the
Project Agreement and such amendments have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(f)  The Mortgage has been created, filed, registered and recorded as
provided in Section 4.04 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement.
(g)   Arrangements satisfactory to the Association, to enter into force not
later than January 1, 1972, have been made concerning the provision by the
Company of street lighting service within the city of Quito and payment therefor
to the Company.
(h)   Contractual arrangements between the Municipalidad de Quito and the
Company, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, concerning the
.        transfer, after December 31, 1970, of all power distribution facilities of the
Municipalidad de Quito to the Company have been made and all acts, consents
and approvals required in connection therewith have been duly and validly
performed or given.
(i)   The condition of the Company, as represented or warranted t. the
Association at the date of this Development Credit Agreement, has undergone no
material adverse change between such date and the date agreed upon between the
Association and the Company for the purposes of this Section.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Company, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Company in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the


﻿12
Company, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower and the Company in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 8.01 (c) of
this Development Credit Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Company and all other parties thereto,
respectively, and constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company and such
parties in accordance with their respective terms.
(d)   That the Mortgage has (i) been duly executed and delivered; (ii) been
duly filed, registered and recorded in all jurisdictions or offices; and (iii) created
a valid lien in favor of the Bank under the laws of the Borrower, enforceable
in accordance with its terms, all in accordance with Section 4.04 (a) and (b) of
the Project Agreement; and that as of the date of filing, registration or recording
thereof the Company had valid title to the property included therein free of all
liens and encumbrances other than the lien arising therefrom.
Section 8,03. The    date  of May    15, 1972, is    hereby  specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 (b), 4.02
and 5.02 of this Development Credit Agreement and the provisions of Sections
7.02 and 7.03 of this Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date when the Subsidiary Loan, together with interest and all other charges
accrued thereon, shall have been paid, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions,
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Quito, Ecuador


﻿13
Cable address:
Minfinanzas
Quito, Ecuador
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ A. Salgado G.
Authorized Representatibe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M.Shoaib
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.    Civil Works
(a)   Nay6n plant               900,000            36% of total ex-
penditures (rep-
resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
(b)   Cumbayd by-pass           400,000            40% of total ex-
penditures (rep-
resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
(c)   Equipment, ma-            100,000            100% of foreign
terials and                                  expenditures
tools
II.   Diesel Plant
Equipment, materials          2,600,000            100% of foreign
and associated ser-                                expenditures
vices


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
II.  Transmission and
Distribution System
Line switching and             1,450,000
substation equipment,
including transformers;
cement, reinforcing
steel and structural
steel for poles; dis-
tribution and street
lighting equipment,
including transformers;
and materials and as-
sociated services:
(a)   produced outside                             100% of foreign
the territories                              expenditures
of the Borrower
(b)  produced within                              40% of local ex-
the territories                              penditures (rep-
of the Borrower                              resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
IV.   Consultants' Services
(a)   Engineering super-         170,000           100% of foreign
vision for civil                             expenditures
works
(b)   Consultant ser-            580,000           100% of foreign
vices for studies                            expenditures
and management
assistance
V.    Unallocated                     600,000
TOTAL         6,800,000


﻿16-
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
except that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I (a) and II on
account of expenditures incurred after March 15, 1971, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,400,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,


﻿A                                              17
subject, however, +o the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I (a)
and (b) or of local expenditures under Category III (b) shall increase and no
proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Construction of a hydro-electric plant on the Rio San Pedro at Nay6n with
an installed generating capacity of about 30 MW, comprising intake, tunnel,
headtank, penstock, power house, tailrace and personnel housing; and the
Cuimbayd by-pass, comprising access road, intake, tunnel, sedimentation basin
and outlet.
B.    Construction of a new diesel plant in the city of Quito with an installed
generating capacity of about 18 MW.
C.    Construction of a 46 kV transmission line from the Nay6n plant to Curnbayd
and the city of Quito and the completion of the 46 kV ring system around
the city of Quito, including substations; conversion from 22 kV to 46 kV
of the existing transmission line from Los Chillos to Guangopolo; and
improvement of the existing 46 kV transmission line from Guangopolo to
Quito.
D.    The Company's 1971-1974 program     of renovation, strengthening and
expansion of the distribution system in the Cant6n Quito, including street
lighting  in the  city  of Quito  and   village electrification  in the
Nono-Gualea-Pacto and the San Jose de Minas areas.
E.    1.   A study for the next stage of the Company's generation program.
2.    Review of the Company's tariffs structure.
3.   Technical assistance to the Company in the fields of management and
administration.
4.    A  network and load dispatch center feasibility and preliminary
engineering study.
5.   Such phases of the village electrification study, referred to in Section
2.09 of the Project Agreement, as the Ascociation and the Company
shall agree to include in the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


