Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Cg. ggPY-cQ;
Repmn No. P-4186-RW
REPORT AND RECOiMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 10.7 MILLION
AND A SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 14.5 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 8, 1985
Iks dim t has   a   insc  dMbutk. sa may be mWd by reeilts sly In fee pedefom    of
tber ofei dute. It estmis may na tbnwbe he SacIcd vito.t Wod Bnk autbodnoa.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of end May 1985)
US$1.00 = Rwandese franc (RwF) 103.7
RwF 100 = US$0.9b4
(Project data are based on the exchange rate of US$1.00 = RwF 105)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB          African Development Bank
BADEA         Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
ECO           Engineering and Control  Department
FED           European Development Fund
KFAED         Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MC            Ministry of Communications
MOTC          Ministry of Transport and Communications
iPW           Ministry of Public Works
PED           Planning and Engineering Department of
the Roads Branch
RB            Roads Branch of the Ministry of Public Works
STIR          Societe des Transports Internationaux du Rwanda
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
vOC           Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD           Vehicles per Day
WD            Works Department of the Roads Branch
WFP           World Food Program
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                =          3.3  feet
I hectare                  =         2.47  acres
1 kilometer (km)           =         0.62  mile
I square kilometer (km2)  =          0.39  square miles (sq. mi.)
I kilogram (kg)            =         2.2   pounds (lb)
I liter (1'                =         0.26  US gallons (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =         2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
(i)
RWANDA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower: Republic of Rwanda -
Amount:    An IDA credit of SDR 10.7 million (US$11.0 million equivalent) and
a Special African Facility credit of SDR 14.5 million (US$ 15.0
million equivalent)
Terms:     Standard IDA terms
Project:
Description
Ci) Objectives: (a) to improve public expenditure planning in the
highway sector by assisting the Government to develop appropriate
road maintenance and construction programs; (b) to strengthen donor
coordination in the sector with a view to channeling external aid
towards higher priority needs; (c) to improve road maintenance and
construction planning by the Ministry of Public Works Road Branch
(RB); (d) to strenghten RB for increased operational effectiveness;
and (e) through effective road maintenance, to reduce road
transport system costs to the economy;
(ii)   Components: The project, which is a part of the Government's 4-year
(1986-89) road maintenance and reconstruction program, would
include selected maintenance and reconstruction works and
institution-building during the program period. It would provide
for: (a) road maintenance works by force account over a 4,060 km
network; (b) reconstruction of the Kigali-Gatuna road; (c)
improvement of the Government's soils laboratory; (d) staff
training; and (e) consulting services for development of better
techniques for maintenance of communal roads, and for transport
planning;
(iii)   Benefits: The project would lower road transport system costs
through a reduction of vehicle operating costs, deferred costly
road reconstruction, and improved road safety;
(iv)   Risks: The main risks facing the project are implementation delays
and cost increases that could arise if shortages develop in
imported fuel, parts and materials as a result of the tight foreign
exchange situation of the country and/or transport difficulties and
delays in neighboring countries. The measures included under the
project should substantially reduce these risks.
I This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their offwcial duties. 'ts contents may nDt otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated Project Costs                          Local       Foreign       Total
US$ million
I. Poad Maintenance Works                      8.87        16.91         25.78
II. Improved facilities for the
soils laboratory                        0.08          0.70         0.78
III. Training                                    0.17         1.12          1.29
IV. Reconstruction of Sections I &
II of Kigali-Gatuna Road 1/             2.15         14.44         16.59
V. Consulting Services                         0.37         3.44          3.81
Total Base Cost             11.64        36.61         48.25
Contingencies
Physical (on Item IV)   0.22          1.52          1.79
Price                    2.17         6.98          9.15
Total Cost 21               14.03        45.11         59.14
Project Financing Plan                       Local      Foreign    Total      X
US million             Total
Proposed IDA Credit and
Special African Facility Credit          -         26.0       26.0       44
Reallocation from Fifth IDA
Highway project 3/                       -          5.0        5.0        8
UNDP                                       -          1.0         1.0       2
France                                     -          0.4        0.4        1
BADEA                                      -          7.6        7.6       13
WFP                                        0.5        1.4         1.9       3
Government-Recurrent Budget               11.3        3.7       15.0       25
Development Budget                         2.2         -         2.2        4
Total Financing          14.0      45.1        59.1     100
Estimated Disbursements                      FY87       FY88       FY89      FY90
(US$ million)
Annutal                                    3.8        9.7        7.8       4.7
Cumulative                                 3.8       13.5       21.3      26.0
Economic Rate of Return:   46.2%
Map: IBRD 18940 - Rwanda: Sixth Highway Project
1/ The European Development Fund (FED) plans to finance
Section III of this road.
2/ Including taxes on purchases financed by Government; estimated at US$1.03
million.
3/ Credit 1250-RW, signed June 9, 1982 (ref. para. 45).



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit and a Special African Facility credit to the Republic of
Rwanda in a total amount of SDR 25.2 million (US$26.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to finance a sixth highway project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RW) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983 which discussed economic
developments in Rwanda until that date. These developments, updated where
possible, are snmmarized below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size, an annual
population growth rate of 3.7 percent (ranking among the highest in Africa), a
population density (in terms of agricultural land) of about 390 per square km
(slightly higher than that of India but about four times that of Zaire and
about eight times that of Tanzania), hilly terrain and high average altitude,
a landlocked position, lack of natural resources (including shortage of arable
land), underdeveloped physical and institutional infrastructure, and a very
low level of development as measured by a variety of social as well as
economic indicators. These indicators include a per capita income of about
US$270 (1983), among the lowest in the world; an average life expectancy of 44
years; and an adult literacy rate of 40 percent.
4.        The country is heavily dependent on agricultural exports (coffee,
tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) which provide 75 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and the growth of modern
manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market and the lack of raw
materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills, and skilled
manpower. The country, consequently, imports capital goods, steel, petroleum
products, cement and other construction materials, and virtually every modern
consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by high transportation
costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to the sea ports of
Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam.
5.        Despite these constraints, Rwanda has made a creditable effort
toward economic and social development. During the 1976-80 period, the
country managed to satisfy its subsistence needs and to make important
advances not only in agriculture but in other fields such as education,
health, water supply, and small-scale industry. It succeeded in building
basic transport and communication infrastructure and set in place a state



-2-
administrative apparatus serious about development. These achievements
reflect the Government's commitment to economic and social progress, as well
as its prudent fiscal, balance of payments and debt management policies. At
the same time, Rwanda has been able to attract substantial volumes of external
aid from a great diversity of sources, confirming donor perceptions that
Government is indeed development-oriented and is pursuing generally
appropriate objectives. The Government's efforts during this period were
significantly helped by favorable weather conditions and the coffee boom of
the late 1970's.
6.        Achievement and good fortune notwithstanding, development efforts
in Rwanda have not alleviated the fundamental problems which continue to
compromise development prospects: population growth, increasingly at odds
with land availability, an undiversified economic structure, Government's
limited capacity to provide social services, and the economy's inability to
generate jobs either outside or within the rural sector. Though foodcrop
output has increased sufficiently to feed the growing population, it has
apparently done so at a cost to the land's long-term fertility. Agricultural
land use in Rwanda has reached a point where there is little fallow or grazing
area left. The rapidly growing population has resulted in serious
deforestation, accompanying erosion, and has required the cultivation of
marginal lands with a fragile ecology. Concomitant with these adverse trends
has been a deterioration of nutritional standards induced by the shift to
traditional high-yield, high-calorie, but low-protein crops. The limited
success of Government's efforts has been largely due to the country's
structural constraints (among them the critical population problem),
institutional weaknesses (stemming largely from shortage of skilled
personnel), and insufficiency of domestic financial resources. At the same
time, the shortage of skilled personnel, fragmentation of institutional
responsibilities, and poor interagency coordination have limited the country's
capacity to absorb external resources.
7.        The Rwandese authorities have taken steps to address these
problems. Of particular importance have been actions concerned with the
extremely rapid population growth, and the lack of education and training.
In 1981, the Government established the National Population Office (ONAPO) to
plan, coordinate, and monitor all population activities. ONAPO has started to
sensitize the population about the implications of excessive demographic
pressure on the country's limited resources; a few pilot family planning
programs have been set up; and a nationvide fertility survey, now completed,
is expected to provide valuable information on the potential demand for family
planning. Obviously, the impact of these measures will be felt only in the
long run. To address the problem of lack of education and training, the
Government introduced an education reform in 1979 which - after subsequent
adjustment - was responsive to the country's needs, hut whose implementation
has been hampered by financial constraints and the lack of teachers.
8.        A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's recent economic performance
can only be tentative, as the national account estimates have serious
shortcomings. These estimates suggest that, compared to the period of
1978-1980, during which the GDP grew by about 6 percent annually, economic
growth in Rwanda slowed down during 1983-1984 -- GDP grew on average by 3.3
percent p.a. - mainly on account of a downswing in tertiary sector



-3-
activities.   Balance of payments and budgetary constraints impinged heavily
upon trade and transport activities whose rapid growth in the past had been
facilitated by greatly enlarged availabilities of foreign exchange and
budgetary revenues. Budgetary austerity measures introduced since 1983
resulted in stagnation of Government's expenditures in real terms during the
past two years. Notwithstanding this domestic recession, the manufacturing
sector expanded its productive capacity and improved its capacity utilization
due, in part, to the import restrictions which limited foreigrn competition.
Mining continued the decline that started in 1980 due to persistent financial
and managemenc problems of the major mixed-ownership company (SOMIRWA) which
is now being liquidated. In agriculture, the sluggish performance of the food
crop production has been partially offset by the rise in the production of
export crops.
9.        Rwanda's external position came under strong pressure, as the volume
of imports continued to expand at a time when export earnings were declining.
Since 1981, the total value of exports has been consistently below their
1977-80 levels, reflecting the decline in world coffee prices rather than a
shortfall in export volume. The terms of trade deteriorated by about 24
percent between 1979 and 1984. In an attempt to arrest the deterioration of
the balance of payments, the Government adopted - beginning in 1983 - what
they expected would be temporary measures, including licensing, prior deposit
requirements and increased import tariffs. The restrictions aimed mainly at
curtailing imports of non-essential consumption goods as well as those of
locally produced commodities. The Rwandese authorities also shifted the peg
of the Rwandese franc (in September 1983) from the US dollar to the SDR,
entailing a 5.2 percent depreciation vis-a-vis the US dollar. These measures,
coupled with some improvement in the terms of trade in 1984 (with respect to
the 1981-1983 period) helped to reduce the current account deficit to about 9
percent of GDP in L984 as compared to 12 and 11 percent, respectively, in 1982
and 1983.
10.       On the budgetary side, the authorities failed to realize that the
high level of tax revenues recorded in 1979 and 1980 was a temporary
phenomenon not justifying a permanent increase in expenditures. This failure
reflected a major weakness in the assessment of resource availability and
prospects. As a result, the sharp decline in revenues from coffee export
taxes beginning in 1981, together with increases in current outlays (in order
to achieve the social objectives of the Plan), resulted in an overall
budgetary deficit equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP in both 1982 and 1983
(as compared to a surplus of 0.9 percent in 1980.) Concern over the worsening
budgetary situation led Government to introduce corrective fiscal measures.
In 1984, the growth of current expenditures (in nominal terms) was limited to
2.3 percent (compared to 36 and 10 percent in 1981 and 1982, respectively).
The growth of public sector employment was held under 0.5 percent - the
education sector was exempted in order to achieve the revised targets of the
1979 Education Reform. This represented a major break from Government's past
policy of practically guaranteeing" employment to every secondary-school
graduate. Large reductions were also decided in net cransfers to
parastatals. Henceforth, state enterprises of a commercial or industrial
nature will not be granted budgetary subsidies and will have to resort to
commercial bank financing. On the revenue side, despite an upward revision of



-4-
import duties on luxtury goods and a more progressive tax structure on wages,
the tax ratio to GDP remained relatively low at 9 percent. The same austerity
measures have heen included in the 1985 budget-
11.       Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary
and credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through
neighboring countries, high international transport costs, and increased
prices of imports and seasonal fluctuations in the price of domestic
foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 10.6 percent per annum during 1977-82, it
peaked at 12.6 percent in 1982, reflecting mainly the substantial increases in
electricity and water tariffs and educational fees. In 1983 and 1984
inflation was down to 6.6 and 5.4 percent, respectively.
12.       Rwanda has been one of the most favored beneficiaries of foreign
aid in recent years. Per capita, disbursements of net official development
assistance (ODA) have been above US$30, much larger than the average for
Africa. During the period 1981-84, grants comprised about 80 percent of total
external aid flows, and were provided mainly by Belgium, the Federal Republic
of Germany, and France. In view of its level of development, Rwanda will need
external assistance for a long time to come. Even maintaining per capita
income at the current low level - a very modest objective indeed - will
require a continuation of assistance at least at the current level, given
population growth and export constraints. The donor community should make
efforts to increase its assistance, provided Rwanda continues to pursue sound
macro-economic, sectoral (particularly in agriculture), and population
policies.
13.       Rwanda's medium- and long-term external public debt is relatively
small, amounting to US$220 million at end-1983, equivalent to about 15
percent of CDP. Most of Rwanda's external debt was contracted on highly
concessionary terms; the grant element was over 70 percent on average
during the 1972-84 period. Due to the concessionary nature of these loans,
the debt service payments on medium- and long-term debt are relatively low:
7.0 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1984. Hence,
there remains scope for further borrowing. However, given the poverty of
the country, its overwhelming constraints and vulnerability, and its
unfavorahle terms of trade prospects, external funds should continue to be
provided in the form of grants or loans at highly concessionary terms, and
include a high proportion of local cost financing and non-project assistance.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
14.       The Bank Group assistance, started in 1970, was initially focused on
the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricultural
production. As of September 30, 1985, Rwanda has received twenty-four IDA
credits totalling USS247.2 million: eight for agriculture (37 percent); five
for roads (28 percent); three for DFC's (7 percent); two for education (7
percent); one for telecommunications (3 percent); two for technical assistance
(4 vercent); one for water supply (5 percent) and two for power (10 percent).
There have been no Bank loans. Three IFC investments (one of US$535,000 for a



-5-.
tea factory; a second of US$226,000 with contingent equity commitment of up to
US$60,000 to expand the tea factory; a third of US$249,000 also to expand the
tea factory) were signed in 1976, 1980 and 1985, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments.
15.       In fiscal years 1982-84, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$49.1
million, compared to new commitments of US$86.2 million. The annual
disbursement rate increased steadily over this period, to reach about 25
percent in FY85 which is above the average for countries of the Eastern and
Southern Africa Region. There are no problem projects in Rwanda.
16.       The Bank Group lending has been based on a country strategy which
has emphasized: (i) agriculture and rural development, the main objective
being to increase food production as well as export crops, while maintaining
soil fertility; (ii) human resources development, focusing on support to basic
education and skills training to improve agricultural productivity, provide
skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the population issue, and, more
recently, on family planning programs per se; (iii) infrastructure
development, particularly roads, to reduce the country's isolation and to
provide incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well as
increased specialization and diversification through better marketing; (iv)
energy, to lessen the country's demand for fuel imports; and (v) development
of small and medium-size enterprises in manufacturing and other sectors.
17.       One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the shortage
of technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and inhibits
project preparation and implementation. Intensive technical assistance and
on-the-job training of Rwandese staff have, therefore, been a salient feature
of the Bank Group program for Rwanda, both under individual projects in
various sectors, and through a free-standing technical assistance project
(Credit 1217-RW which became effective in November 1982). This project has
helped strengthen inter-ministerial coordination, provided training to staff
in the studies units of concerned agencies, and contributed to improve the
preparation of the next five-year plan.
18.       The Bank Group program has been pursued in a climate of good
relations with the Government. In all sectors in which we are active, there
exist a general receptivity to our advice and willingness to take action where
required. In agriculture, improved sector management as well as more rigorous
project planning and financial controls have been attained, with a shift away
from integrated rural development schemes towards more directly productive
projects. In the highway sector, our active dialogue with the Ministry of
Public Works and Energy is now focusing on the ways to reduce reliance upon
expatriate expertise.  In industrial development, we have gained Government's
commitment to promote small-scale enterprises. In the education sector, we
had difficulties due to two misprocurements (some six years ago) and an overly
ambitious education reform proposal at the primary level. However, a positive
dialogue with the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MINIPRISEC) has
emerged in the past three years; the Ministry has since adopted a less costly
and lengthy primary cycle. On population, our initially cautious approach to
Government has developed into cooperative efforts to promote suitable family
health and planning programs.



- 6 -
19.       The Bank Group strategy continues to center on the five sectors
mentioned above (para. 16), with special emphasis on agriculture and
population. For the former, we give priority to: (i) promote intensification
by developing and strengthening Rwanda's agricultural research and extension
capabilities; and (ii) reinforce the key sector institutions - the Rwandese
Research Institute and the Ministry of Agriculture. In the population sector,
our program involves close collaboration with the National Population Office
(the agency responsible for designing and promoting educational programs and
service delivery systems for family planning), support to maternal/child
health initiatives through the Ministry of Health, recently reorganized, and
to participate more effectively in other efforts to deal with Rwanda's
bourgeoning population problem.
20.       Since 1970, the Bank Group has been active in Rwanda's transport
sector, in an effort to improve the country's main road links with the
neighboring countries, and between its capital and major provincial centers.
The Bank Group has also made increasing efforts -o improve maintainance of the
road network, better programming and efficient execution of transport
investments and recurrent expenditures, and institution-building, including
training of Rwandese staff (paras. 44-46).
21.       Our dialogue with the Government has also had a macroeconomic
dimension. Rwandese authorities have recently indicated readiness to proceed
with the preparation of an economic recovery program ('Programme de Relance"),
and asked the Bank's assistance in its formulation. A Bank economic mission
recently visited Rwanda in response to this request. The mission's work,
which extended in particular over agriculture and mining sectors and public
enterprises, will help further strengthen the cooperation between Rwanda and
the Bank at the macroeconomic level.
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Introduction
22.       Population and economic activity in Rwanda are distributed fairly
evenly over the country. However, owing to the scattered nature of
agricultural production and the limited quantities being marketed by
smallholders,transport flows are modest and consist mainly of export crops,
imported consumer goods and construction materials. The main transport flows
are between Kigali, the capital, and the exterior (the neighboring cou.,.ries),
and between Kigali and the regions. In view of the seasonal nature of
agricultural exports, these flows tend to be unbalanced. The transport
infrastructure consists of a network of about 10,000 km of roads and tracks,
Lake Kivu on the western border, an international airport at Kigali and five
smaller airports. There are no railways or navigable rivers. Because of the
hilly terrain and difficult soil conditions, transport infrastructure is very
costly to build and to maintain. These disadvantages are compounded by high
external transport costs owing to the long distances involved and the
difficult conditions of transit haulage through neighboring countries. Yet,
the availability of adequate and less costly transport facilities is of key
importance for agricultural production and the development of other sectors of
the economy of Rwanda.



7-
Sector Development Objectives and Sector Organization
23.       Rwanda Government's last three development plans have assigned a
key role to transport, with investments and policies aimed in particular
at: (a) improving international transport connections; (b) upgrading and
improving maintenance of the main road network to facilitate the country's
economic development and its social and administrative integration; and (c)
improving services and lowering transport costs in the rural areas.
Significant progress has been made in each area. For the future, while
these broad objectives remain appropriate, more attention will need to be
given to translating them into well-balanced Investment and maintenance
programs, and to effective implementation. The proposed project will
assist in these areas.
24.       Two ministries directly involved in transport are: (a) the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for road construction and maintenance; and,
(b) the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) for the development
of other modes and for the utilization of the transport infrastructure in
general. In addition, the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Affairs are indirectly concerned with transport: the first for
determining sectoral priorities and coordinating all public investments,
and the second through taxation of inputs used in transport and for
approving transport tariffs. Finally, the Central Bank influences the
transport sector through its allocation of foreiga exchange.
Transport Planning and Transport Sector Expenditures
25.       The main emphasis of Government's expenditure programs in
transport has been on the development of basic road infrastructure.
Successive Five-Year Plans have allocated a substantial share of total
planned investments to transport and, in particular, to improvement of
roads providing access to international transit routes and main inter-
regional roads. In the current Plan (1982-1986), transport accounts for
17X of planned investments, with new road construction taking more than 75%
of that share. Since external financing is more readily available in
transport than in other sectors, plan implementation also tends to move
faster than in some other sectors.
26.       There is room for improvement of transport planning in Rwanda.
In the past, the focus has been on planning project by project, and roads
that were built under this selction procedure bave bad acceptable rates of
return. However, comprehensive programs covering both maintenance and
construction were not prepared. In view of the substantial funds involved
in building and preserving an adequate transport network, and the needed
shift in emphasis from infrastructure development to its efficient
maintenance and utilization, the priority in transport planning has to be
directed to the formulation and annual updating of balanced public
expenditure programs. This approach was initiated during the preparation
of the proposed project (para. 27).



- 8 -
27.       As part of its long term aim of paving all interregional roads,
Government attaches importance to the paving of four roads totalling 305 km
in length. While these investments have acceptable rates of return, their
scheduling for implementation has to take into account overall priorities
(para. 26). Towards this end, the Government has now prepared a draft
overall expenditure program (1986-1989) for the road sector, which presents
together road maintenance and a scaled-down road construction program. The
1686-89 program gives due weight to economic criteria (primarily the
economic rate of return) and is financially feasible in terms of budgetary
resources likely to be available to the Government. However, given the
heavy involvement of other donors in the sector, there is need for
periodically reviewing it in the light of external assistance available to
the sector, to ensure that priority maintenance and improvement works will
receive funding. On that basis, agreement has already been reached with
the Government on its expenditure program for 1986. In future, every year
in conjunction with the preparation of the annual budget, the    Government
will update its schedule of road improvement works and its four- year
forward expenditure program for the road sector on the basis of the same
financial and economic feasibillty criteria. It will afford IDA an
opportunity to comment on the updated program and finalize it, taking into
account IDA's comments. These updated programs will also serve as a basis
for future round table discussions or informal meetings with other donors
in the sector to achieve better donor coordination.
28.       As part of the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1250-RW), UDP
provided financing for an expert to assist in carrying out priority
transport planning tasks and establishing a planning capability for the
transport sector. This position was only filled in 1984, owing to
recruitment delays. With the preparation of the Sixth Highway Project, a
start was made with the formulation of priorities for the highway sector as
a whole and the preparation of a comprehensive program covering road
construction, road improvement/rehabilitation and road maintenance tasks
(para. 27). The need is now for establishing transport planning on a firm
basis by giving it its proper role in the annual review and updating of
multi-year programs and for better coordination of the activities carried
out by the various Ministries involved in transport. The Government will
make, by June 30 1986, organizational arrangements satisfactory to IDA, to
strengthen the transport planning function and the coordination of the
planning and policy formulation activities of the various Kinistrie.,
involved in transport.
International Transport
29.       Rwanda's international transport links are made precarious by not
only its long distances to the ocean (over 1,700 km), which substantially
increase the cost of imports and exports, but also by the poor condition of
the infrastructures, the lengthy transit procedures in neighbouring
countries, low operating efficiency of transport companies active in the
area, and relatively small and imbalanced export and import flows
(exports: about 40,000 tons, imports 280,000tons). Rwanda also incurs
indirect costs on account of factors such as high loss and damage rates of
goods and interruptions in transport flow.



-9-
30.       Two main transport corridors to the Indian Ocean ports have
traditionally been used: the Northern Corridor (1,740 km) which comprises
the all-road and road/rail routes via Kampala and Nairobi to Nombasa, and
the Central Corridor (1,720 km) which consists of the road/lake/rail
connection via Bujumbura and Kigoma to Dar-es-Salaam. Because of recurrent
problems of delays in transit on the Central Corridor, its role in Rwanda's
external trade shrunk to less than 5% in 1984. International transport by
air achieved significance in the late 1970's when, owing to the
difficulties with surface transport, a start was made with cargo flights;
but air cargo has declined since then.
31.       The acute bottlenecks in the two corridors in the late seventies
- mainly due to unsettled conditions in Uganda and to a surge in Zambian
traffic sent via Dar-es-Salaam which compounded recurrent problems in
operating efficiency of the transport agencies - led to the most serious
interruption in transport ever experienced in the region. Concerted
efforts were launched by both the landlocked and transit countries and
other interested parties to alleviate the problem. While the various
initiatives undertaken fell short of their expected results, good progress
has been made in a number of areas, and international consultations and
cooperation have become more structured. The Northern Corridor countries
entered into a Transit Transport Agreement which should soon become
operative and should help reduce total time in transit significantly
through simplification of customs procedures. Selective investments for
rehabilitation and modernization of infrastructures and facilities have
been made. As a result of the measures taken and with the disappearance of
certain causes of the bottlenecks, transport costs decreased (or increased
only moderately). However, there remains considerable scope for further
improvement, particularly in the areas of operations and transit
procedures. The proposed project provides financing for an international
transport expert to strengthen the Rwanda Government's capacity for
analysis and policy formulation in the international transport area.
Roads and Road Transport
32.       The Network. Rwanda has a classified road network totaling about
4,060 km of which 627 km are paved and 274 km are being improved to paved
standards. The remaining 3,160 km are mostly unengineered earth roads.
The coverage of the network is nearly adequate. However, the mountainous
terrain, heavy rainfalls and poor soil conditions result in high
maintenance costs of gravel and earth roads. Rwanda has thus concentrated
its efforts on improving to paved standards the major road links between
Kigali and neighboring countries and Rwanda's major regional centers. With
the paving work to be completed by 1987, the network is reaching a stage
where it is no longer a major impediment to the country's economic and
social development. The Government has also increased its attention to
improving the maintenance of the road network through strengthening of its
road maintenance operations. This effort has resulted in a paved road
network in good condition and an earth road network in fair condition,
passable year round, although rutting and potholes are still common after
each rainy season. In addition to the classified network, there are some
6,000 km of communal roads and tracks which receive sporadic maintenance



- 10 -
from the communes (of which there are 143) and occasional improvement works
by the RB with equipment-intensive work methods. Because of poor
maintenance on many communal roads, accessibility is less than adequate for
certain areas they serve.
33.       Road Use. Rwanda's vehicle fleet, estimated at 16,000 units in
1983 - of which 40Z were passenger cars - remains small when compared to
the road network or the population.   It is estimated that about 25% of the
network (including mainly paved roads) carries 85Z of total traffic. The
main roads radiating from Kigali have traffic levels on the order of 500
vehicles per day (vpd) or more. Average annual traffic growth from 1970 to
1983 is estimated at 11X, a figure corroborated by the annual growth rate
of imports of petroleum products (10.4Z).
34.       Road Transport lndustry.  Government incentives have contributed
to a rapid development of Rwanda's transport industry. These incentives
included liberal allocation of foreign exchange for importation of
commercial vehicles, lower taxation and practically free entry into the
transport industry. Transport routes are not regulated. The industry is
largely composed of traders/truckers who engage mainly in commercial
activities, including transport for their own account and as public
carriers. There are only a few large organizations operating more than 10
vehicles. Tariffs are set by Government, but their role is more that of a
reference tariff since they are not enforced. Passenger transport is
subject to a licence from the MTC. Passenger transport by private minibus
has grown rapidly in recent years and is capable to satisfy most of the
demand.  Since the demand for transport is mostly scattered in small
quantities over the country and is highly seasonal, for the time being at
least, continued use of traders/truckers (who normally have substantial
spare capacity) is probably the most flexible and cost-effective
arrangement for handling the country's transport needs. However, greater
attention has to be given to traffic safety, in particular of passengers.
Steps are now being taken in this area (para. 48,g). For international
transport, owing to the cumbersome administrative and customs procedures
governing transit traffic, both importers and exporters have traditionally
relied on clearing and forwarding agents to handle transit formalities and
transport. Most agents themselves do not engage in transport, but contract
out these activities to truckers or pools of truckers. On the northern
route, the trucking industry is dominated by carriers from Kenya. There is
also a growing number of Rwandese operators active in international
transport field. The principal Rwandese international carrier is STIR in
which Government has a majority shareholding.  The Government is also
involved in ONATRACON, a public passenger transport agency. Both STIR and
ONATRACOM have had financial difficulties in recent years.  As a part of
planning in the road sector (para. 31), the Government will have to
reassess the future role of these ventures.
35.       Road User Charges.  Road users contribute to Government revenues
through various import duties and taxes. In recent years, total revenues
from road users exceeded total road maintenance expenditures by about 50%.
However, the coverage ratio of road wear and tear costs by road user
charges varies greatly between different categories of road vehicles. The
transport planning unit will carry out a review of road user charges and
costs by vehicle category and prepare proposals for adjusting taxation of



- 11 - 
road users as required to ensure that each category of vehicles covers at
least the wear and tear cost it imposes on the road network. Taxes on
fuel products (about 20Z) remain low by international standards, mainly
because of Government's objective not to increase the prices of inputs used
in transport given that the CIF Rwanda border price of fuel products is
already very high on account of high international transport costs. In
regard to fuel prices in general, there is no sudsidization or
cross-subsidization of fuel products and price differentiation between
gasoline and diesel fuel is not significant.
*      36.       Traffic Regulations and Road Safety.  Current vehicle weight and
dimension regulations are outdated and overloaded trucks have become a
problem. The Government bas prepared a new traffic Act, also covering
revised vehicle weight and dimension regulations which are in line with the
design specifications of roads built in recent years as well as the
regulations in force in neighboring countries.  The legislation is e3pected
for enactment by December 1985. As a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit, introduction of the new traffic regulations will be
required. The laws governing road safety also need to be brought
up-to-date, and Government has already started tackling the key aspects of
this problem (para. 48,g)
Lalv. and Air Transport
37.       Lake Transport.  Lake Kivu allows commercial navigation.  The
main transport flows consist of beer from Gysenyi to Cyangugu and Kibuye,
with coffee being carried seasonally on the return journey. Total volume
of goods traffic was estimated at some 30,000 tons in 1983. Since the lake
transport is the most economical metbod of transportation between
communities along the lake, there is scope for its expansion as and when
trade in agricultural and consumer goods increases.
38.       Air Transport. Rwanda has a modern airport near Kigali which was
upgraded in 1981 to handle widebodied aircraft. Domestic scheduled flights
are offered by Air Rwanda which operates three small aircraft, while
chartered flights are available from a few private companies.
Highwy Administration
39.       Organizational Structure, Staffing, and Training. MPW through
its Roads Branch (RB) has responsibility for the design, construction and
maintenance of a network of 4,060 km of roads (para. 24). RB is divided
into two departments: the Engineering and Control Department (ECD) which is
in charge of new construction by contractor, and the Works Department (VD)
which is in charge of road/bridge maintenance and construction by force
account and of the mechanical workshops. The present organizational
structure, which was revised in early 1984, is adequate. Staffing,
however, in particular of higher level positioas, still poses problems. To
make up for the shortage of qualified Rwandese higher level staff, RB is
assisted by nineteea expatriates (down from twenty four in 1981), financed
by bilateral and multilateral sources. They operate as advisors, training



- 12 -
instructors or as part of project teams. Because of the lack of local
counterparts, coordination of their activities has proven difficult and the
training impact inadequate. For middle and lower level staff, the
shortages at the RB are less severe and certain functional categories are
even overstaffed. Yet, qualifications are uneven as the education system
does not produce enough skilled workers and technicians, and Government
often hires employees without any vocational training. While the
nationwide shortage of engineers and technicians remains the principal
cause for the lack of qualified staff, two other factors have also
contributed to this situation: low salaries in Government service, and a
lack of serious manpower planning in the past.
40.       The first extensive training program for RB was started in 1978
with financing from FRG, UNDP and IDA. It provided for the establishment
of a training center, offering training in basic skills and refresher
training. Over the period 1979-1982, 124 staff members were trained and
301 staff members received refresher courses. The training is generally of
good quality; staff losses after training have not been serious. During
the 1986-89 period, a training program will be implemented covering all
staff levels and aimed at improving qualifications in critical areas
(para. 48,e). In the meantime, to help the RB cope with its expanding
responsibilities, a start will be made with periodic maintenance by
contract so as not to stretch RB's still limited capabilities (para. 48,b).
41.       Financing.  Routine and periodic maintenance are financed through
the recurrent budget. New road and bridge construction and some periodic
maintenance of paved roads is financed under the investment budget. Total
annual expenditures for highway maintenance averaged RwF 650 million in
recent years (or about US$1,700/km) which is adequate. Of these, about 55Z
was funded through Government's recurrent budget and the remainder by
multilateral and bilateral donors. Government's own allocations to highway
maintenance have been steadily increasing in recent years from RwF 178.2
million in 1978 to RwF 448.0 million in 1984, or about 5Z per annum in real
terms. In order to cope with the growing maintenance needs, Government is
considering, inter alia, the creation of a road fund to which additional
taxation on road users would be channeled. Government will prepare, by
June 30, 1986, proposals (for review with IDA) for gradually financing from
its own resources a larger share of recurrent road maintenance. Total
annual expenditures for highway construction have exceeded RwF 3 billion in
recent years. About three quarters were externally funded. These
expenditures, including those by the Government under the development
budget, have tended to fluctuate widely over the years as a result of the
overlapping of major const-uction works. This underlines the need for
careful scheduling of individual projects (para. 27).
42.       Road Maintenance and Equipment Management. RB's Works Department
(WD) is responsible for maintenance of 4,060 km of roads, while the
communes are mainly responsible for the maintenance of 6,000 km of
unclassified roads and tracks (para. 32). Road maintenance has improved
over -he past years due to the strengthening of road maintenance
operations, increased budgetary allocations and the assistance provided by
IDA and other foreign donors, principally FRG. An adequate administrative
structure has been set up and procedures for maintaining the country's
major network and improving the skills of local staff are in place.



- 13 -
Routine maintenance operations are performed by 200 labor-intensive road
gangs (cantonniers"), composed of a foreman and 12 roadmen, each with
responsibility for about 15 km of roads. Equipment maintenance and repair
is the responsibility of WD's Workshop and Warehouse Section (W). WW
operates a central mechanical workshop and a spare parts store In Kigali
and two regional workshops in Ruhengeri, and Kibuye. These operations are
managed by technical assistance provided under IDA and FRG projects and
staffed by local mechanics and helpers. Equipment maintenance will
continue to depend on the assistance of the expatriate mechanics. The
proposed project would provide the necessary technical assistance,
equipment, materials and supplies for continued improvement of WW
operations and will put emphasis on the training of necessary local
personnel (para. 48,e,f)
43.       Engineering and Construction.  RB's Engineering and Control
Department (ECD) is responsible for engineering and supervising
construction works. Due to limited number of experienced staff, ECD is
supported by technical assistance staff from FRG. Engineering studies and
supervision of major projects are entrusted to foreign consultants and,
occasionally, to the National Study Bureau (BUEP) which is galriig
expertise in this field. ECD also operates the Governement Soils
Laboratory which carries out Boil tests for design work. As part of the
1986-89 program, the laboratory's capacity will be expanded to cover
certain study and supervision tasks of road maintenance operations and
research in the utilization of local materials for road construction and
maintenance (para. 48,d). Construction projects are executed by
contractors, following suitable pre-qualification and tendering
procedures. Contracts are generally let on a unit-price basis, following
international competitive bidding. Rwanda has no domestic road
construction firms due to lack of skilled and experienced personnel, lack
of financial resources and a small market for construction works. A few
domestic firms work in smalU building construction projects and as minor
subcontractors to foreign firms.
44.       Experience with Past IDA Lending in the Sector.  IDA lending for
the Rwanda road subsector has amounted to US71.4 million for five
projects. The objectives of these projects have been to assist this
landlocked country in: (i) improving major international road connections
with its neighbors and between its regional centers and the capital, and
(ii) improving its institutional capabilities to carry out efficient road
maintenance operations.
45.       Under the First Highway Project (Credit 196-RW, USS18.8 million;
1970), the Third Highway Project (Credit 475-RW, US$6.3 million; 1974) and
the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1250-RW, USS25.9 million; 1982), IDA
primarily financed road construction. These projects contributed,
respectively, to improvement to paved standards of the Kigali-Gatuna road
(80 ki), the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road (60 km), and the Butare-Kitabi road
(53.5 km). Excessive delays and cost overruns occured on the Kigali-Gatuna
and Ruhengeri-Gisenyi roads, due to inadequate engineering and construction
techniques, and interruption in the supply of equipment and materials
through Uganda at a time of instability in that country. The project
performance audit reports (PPARs), however, concluded that the improvements



- 14 -
of both roads were still justified as the increases in construction costs
were offset by higher than anticipated traffic growth and greater savings
in vehicle operating costs. The Kigali-Gatuna road has since deteriorated
to the point where reconstruction is necessary. While some maintenance
works to keep it passable are being carried out under the Fifth Highway
Project, provision would be made for reconstruction works under the
proposed Sixth Highway Project (para. 48,c). In view of the difficulties
encountered in the first two road construction projects, the improvement of
the Butare-Kitabi road (Fifth Highway Project) was designed with due
attention to soils problems, alignment and drainage; contractors were
prequalified carefully and the supervision team was provided with an
expert in soils engineering. Construction of this road has been
progressing satisfactorily and is well advanced. The revised cost
estimates for it allow reallocation of US$5.0 million to the construction
of the Kigali-Gatuna road under the proposed Project.
46.       IDA's Second Highway Project (Credit 299-Rw, US$5.4 million;
1971) and the Fourth Highway Project (Credit 769-RW, US$15.0 million; 1977)
contributed to improvement of road maintenance operations and institution
building. These projects provided equipment, materials, supplies,
rehabilitation of workshops, technical assistance and training of
personnel. Both projects were designed to carry out periodic and routine
road maintenance operations on the network of paved and earth roads. At
the closing of the Second Highway Credit, on December 31, 1978, only about
5OZ of targeted works were completed sucessfully. The PPAR concluded that
the targets set at appraisal were overly optimistic.  For this reason, the
Fourth Highway Project was designed with due weight and attention to the
limitations of the RB. At the credit closing in June 1984, 90Z of tL'
works programed were successfully completed. Both the Second and Fourth
projects succeeded in setting up a basic road maintenance administration.
Moreover, the organization of labor-intensive teams of cantonnage' has
assumed a key role in keeping the network passable all year round.
However, the training of personnel has not yet had in full the expected
impact due to a shortage of qualified candidates and some losses of trained
staff to the private sector. The result is that technical assistance is
still needed in the medium term to carry out effective road maintenance
operations. The proposed project will put emphasis on the training of
personnel (para. 48,e).
PART IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
47.       IDA's objectives in Rwanda's highway sector are fully supportive
of the Government's own objectives and priorities, namely: (i) to improve
public expenditure planning in the sector by assisting Government to
develop appropriate road maintenance and construction programs; (ii) to
strengthen donor coordination in the sector to channel external aid towards
high priority needs; (iii) to improve road maintenance and construction
planning; (iv) to strengthen RB operationally; and (v) to improve road
maintenance operations and thereby reduce road transport system costs. Tc



- 15 -
achieve these objectives, IDA would help finance a part of Rwanda's 1986-89
road maintenance and reconstruction program (leaving out certain parts
which are exclusively supported by other donors as part of their ongoing
assistance to the sector), together with a comprehensive training program
for the highway administration.
B. The Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Program, 1986-1989
48.       The content. The program which was prepared by RB and finalized
during IDA project appraisal visit is technically and financially feasible
and economically justified; it covers the essential needs on the 4,060 km
network during the four-year period (1986-89) and comprises the following
components:
(a) Maintenance Works by Force Account including: (i) labor-
intensive routine maintenance on a network of 3,160 km of earth/gravel
roads by 200 labor-intensive gangs (the operation would be assisted, inter
alia, through the replacement of hand tools, haulage of materials, and
training of supervisors); (ii) patching and resealing operations on the
paved road network (630 km, growing to 900 km) by two brigades, each
capable of covering about 400 km of paved roads a year, and repair works
and selective resurfacing of paved roads by a third brigade; (iii)
regravelling and selective improvement of the road and drainage structures
on 500 km of earth/gravel roads carried out by two brigades each covering
60 km of road every year; these brigades to be responsible, also, for
grading some 1,000 km of road each year; and (iv) maintenance, by five
maintenance teams, of the bridges which are the responsibility of RB.
Previous projects by IDA, the FRG and Japan have financed equipment and
tools to assist RB in its maintenance operations. Part of this equipment
and these tools will soon complete their useful life and will bave to be
replaced during the program period. As in the past, the World Food Program
(WFP) will support the program by deliveries of food rations to the
maintenance crews.
(b) Maintenance/Rehabilitation Works by Contract. With the
double objective of allowing RB to cope with the expanding maintenance
needs without undue strain on its capacity, and of making a start with
private sector involvement in maintenance operations, some works would be
carried out by contract. The Cyangugu-Bugarama road (40 km), built to
paved standard more than 20 years ago, requires resurfacing and some spot
repairs; in addition, selective improvement and regravelling works would be
carried out on some 218 km of earth/gravel roads;
(c) Reconstruction of Kigali-Gatuna Road. The Kigali-Gatuna road
(80 km), constructed under the First Highway Project, bas failed
prenaturely due to a combination of adverse factors (para. 45). The road
carries substantial local traffic and serves Rwanda's international road
link through the "Northern corridor". The 1986-89 program provides for
reconstructing the drainage system, the base course and shoulders with
10-20 cm of crushed rock, and a triple surface treatment or a 5 cm asphalt
concrete wearing course. This road crosses difficult terrain and marshy
areas. The original floating embankment on tbe marsh at kx 68 now has
serious problems of subsidence. Two alternative solutions are being
investigated to reconstruct and stabilize the crossing. The necessary



- 16 -
realignment and soils studies are due for completion by the end of 1986.
FED plans to finance works to be carried out for improvement of the
crossings.
(d) Strenghtening of Soils Laboratory. During the program
period, RB's soils laboratory, under the Engineering and Control
Department, will expand its activities to include monitoring the quality of
road maintenance, and investigations to identify and utilize local
materials for road construction and maintenance. To cope with these tasks,
the laboratory will be strengthened through provision of necessary
equipment, materials, supplies and technical assistance.
(e) Manpower Development. The training program for 1986-1989,
covering all levels of staff, has been designed to make available qualified
personnel in adequate numbers for the execution of RB's force account work
program. The target is for training approximately 95 mechanics and
assistant mechanics, 13 engine operators and 70 vehicle drivers, 10
worksite managers and 15 supervisors, 50 secretaries, accountants and
storemen, 60 apprentice mechanics, 13 higher level technical,
administrative and financial staff and 2 vocational training managers. In
preparing the training program, the following aspects have been taken into
account: (i) cost effectiveness of the training, which will be aimed
principally at very small groups of trainees of each speciality; (ii) use
of available training facilities at existiag centers; (iii) coordination of
human resources from the different technical assistance programs. (In
particular, the practical training of mechanics, electricians and workshop
chiefs at the Central Workshop in Kigali will be provided, as in the past,
by bilateral aid from FRG); and (iv) the training of Rwandese instructors
who will progressively take over from the expatriates. In addition to the
training program itself, a number of accompanying measures will be taken to
firmly establish manpower development within the RB. These measures, which
would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit, include
the strengthening of RB's Personnel Bureau, and the setting up of a
Training Unit and a Training Coordination Committee to provide a functional
link between training and personnel management on the one hand and training
and the technical services on the other;
(f) Consulting Services. In view of the staff constraints in RB,
consultants will supervise the reconstruction works on the Kigali-Gatuna
road (80 km), assist RB in preparing specifications and bidding documents
for the repair and resurfacing of the Cyangugu-Bugarana road (40 km), and
the improvement/regravelling of the Rubengera-Ntendezi (131 km) and the
"Circuit des Lacs' roads (87 km). Moreover, as RB has limited qualified
personnel, it will also be assisted by consultants to: (i) help carry oat
the force account maintenance program; (ii) strengthen the soils
laboratory; and (iii) implement the training program.  The technical
assistance for the force account works will comprise a senior engineer, as
team leader (4 staff-years); three road maintenance experts (12
staff-years); a cost accountant (4 staff years); and a stores specialist (3
staff-years). The two element,s of the program to be financed by the FRG -
selective resurfacing on 130 km of paved roads and bridge maintenance -
would include separate arrangements for assistance with implementation.
For equipment maintenance, there will be four mechanical experts (4 staff-
years each) provided by the FRG; they will be engaged partly on operational



- 17 -
duties and partly on training. One expert - to be provided by France -
will help strengthen the laboratory. For the training program, an
instructor (who would also help coordinate the training program) will he
recruited (4 staff-years), to be assisted by training specialists (for a
total of 32 staff-months).
(g) Complementary Sector Actions. In addition to the road works,
the program includes traffic safety measures, a pilot scheme for improved
maintenance of communal roads and expert services for transport planning.
The traffic safety scheme would cover both driver training and vehicle
inspection and would be co-managed by the national insurance company. With
a view to launching a more systematic approach to the improvement and
maintenance of communal roads, a study will identify typical deficiencies
hampering accessibility, quantify the magnitude of necessary improvements
and the level of maintenance that should be aimed at, and make
recommendations on technical, institutional and financial arrangements for
selective improvement and maintenance of communal roads. The study will
also define a work program and accompanying implementation arrangements for
a pilot scheme in a few communes. Expert services will be required for
implementation of the scheme (20 staff-months in total). To help
strengthen Government's transport planning capability, expert services will
also be secured covering both domestic and international transport issues
(for a total of 5 staff-years).
49.       Program Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the progam, net
of taxes and duties but including contingencies, is estimated at US$81.1
million equivalent with a local cost component of about US$18.1 million
equivalent (22%) and, a foreign cost component of nearly US$63.0 million
(78Z). Taxes are estimated at US$1.4 million. Base costs are in mid-1985
prices; physical contingencies of 10% have been added to the cost of civil
works. Price contingencies are based on recent estimates of international
inflation rates as follows: 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in 1987 to
1989. For local costs, price contingencies are estimated at 19%. The
Government's contribution to the program would be US$19.2 million
equivalent under the recurrent budget and US$3.1 million under the
development budget. In addition to the proposed IDA lending, external
financing is being secured from FED, FRG, France, UNDP, Danish
Inte;.national Development Agency (DANIDA), Arab Bank for Economic
Development of Africa (BADEA), Kuwait Fund and World Food Program (WFP) in
support of the program, the details of which are given below:
US$ Milionn   Source of financing         Program activity to be financed
19.2     Government-Recurrent budget      All activities, including force
account
3.1     Government-development budget   Resurfacing; bridges; Kigali-
Gatuna Rd.
5.0     IDA-Highways V                   Kigali-Gatuna Rd.
11.0     IDA-Highways VI                  Maintenance by force account;
soils lab; training; consulting
services; studies;
15.0     IDA-Special African Facility    Maintenance by force account;
Kigali-Gatuna Rd.
7.0    European Development Fund         Kigali-Gatuna Rd.
(FED)



- 18 -
5.2     Fed. Rep. of Germany              Maintenance by force account;
(FRG)                            training; consulting services;
0.4     France                            Soils lab.;
1.0     UNDP                              Training; studies;
0.5     Danish International Develop-   Traffic safety scheme (tentative)
ment Agency (DANIDA)
5.4     Kuwait Fund                       Maintenance by contractors;
7.6     Arab Bank for Economic            Kigali-Gatuna Rd.;
Dev. of Africa (BADEA)
2.1     World, Food Program               Maintenance by force account;
(WFP)
82.5     Total (including contingencies and taxes).
50.       Annual Programming and Monitoring.  Every year, concurrently with
the preparation of the annual budget, RB will prepare a detailed road
maintenance work program for the following year. The work program for
1986 has been agreed with IDA. For subsequent years, annual work programs
will be furnished to IDA by October 31 of each year for its comment, and
will be finalized upon determination of the final budget, taking into
consideration IDA comments received. Prior to being finalized, the draft
work programs will also serve as the basis for systematic coordination of
donor policies and activities in the sector. Progress of implementation of
the annual work programs will be reported upon on the basis of the same
indicators as used in their preparation. A quarterly progress report
showing targets and achievements by major activities and explaining
significant deviations will be prepared. An annual implementation report
will consolidate this information and provide details on inputs used in the
execution of the program, productivity developments and unit costs of the
various activities. The Engineering and Control Department will be
responsible for monitoring the quantity and quality of the works carried
out by the WD and by contractor, and will be assisted in this task by the
soils laboratory.
C. The Project
51.       The content.  The proposed project would comprise of the
following elements of RB's four-year program: (i) the routine maintainance
of earth and paved roads and the regraveling of earth roads as part of RB's
maintenance program by force account - estimated to cost US$30.1 million;
(ii) part of the training program under cost-sharing arrangement with UNDP:
US$1.5 million; 'iii) consulting services for implementation of (i) above,
and for transport planning and studies related to maintenance of communal
roads: US$3.6 million; (iv) soil laboratory: US$0.9 million; and (v)
reconstruction of the first and second sections of the Kigali-Gatuna road:
US$23.0 million, including construction sup_rvision. The total cost of the
project would thus amount to (US$59.1 million, or US$58.1 million excluding
taxes and duties). The foreign cost component would be US$45.1 million
(76%); local costs would be US$14.0 million (24Z). Government's
contribution to the project would be US$17.2 million, including US$3.7
million in foreign costs. The IDA financing would be US$31.0 million (of
which US$5.0 million from the ongoing Fifth Highway Project and US$15



- 19 -
million from the Special African Facility).   The proposed reconstruction
of Section II of the Kigali-Gatuna road (para. 48c,) would be cofinanced
with BADEA, while its Section III would be left for financing by FED.
52.       Implementation and Procurement.  The project would be implemented
by RB, except for the strengthening of international transport planning
which would be implemented by the MOTC.  Like the program, the project
would cover a four year slice of RB's maintenance program starting with
1986. It is planned that equipment for road maintenance would be delivered
in the second half of 1986. Technical assistance to help implement the
program would be provided for four years starting in January 1986. The
project as a whole is expected to be completed by December, 1989.
53.       The reconstruction of the first and second sections of the
Kigali-Gatuna road would be carried out by contractor, to be selected
following international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. Contractors would be prequalified.
Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies for a total amount of
US$13.3 million would be grouped into suitable lots and procured through
ICB in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts valued at
US$16.0 million would be procured under the special eligibility criteria of
the Special African Facility. Materials, equipment, tools, spare parts and
supplies which cannot be grouped in lots of at least US$75,000 equivalent,
with an aggregate limit of US$1 million, may be procured on the basis of
the applicable procedures of the borrower (LCB, local and international
shopping), which are satisfactory to IDA. Parts for existing proprietary
equipment may be procured directly from suppliers. All contracts for civil
works and equipment contracts over US$75,000 each would be subject to prior
review by IDA. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award
reviews. Consultants for supervision, technical assistance and planning
would be employed in accordance with the Guidelines for the use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" . Selectiou would be based primarily
on the technical evaluation of consultants'" proposals and final selection
would be agreed with IDA before entering into a contractual agreement.
Procurement arrangements under the proposed project are given in the Annex
IV to this report.
54.       Disbursement.  The proposed IDA credit and the credit under the
Special African Facility would be disbursed on the following basis: a) 90X
of total expenditures for civil works; b) 100% of foreign expenditures, or
70% of local (ex-factory) cost, for equipment, spare parts, materials and
supplies; and 85% of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
c) 100Z of total expenditures for consultants' services. Disbursements
would be made against full documentation of expenditures except for
contracts of less than US$20,000 and for purchases under $20,000 which
would be made solely on the basis of statements of expenditure. The
Government has to confirm that financing arrangements are in place for
reconstruction of Section III of the Kigali- Gatuna road prior to
disbursement of IDA funds for this component. In order to expedite
disbursement, Government will set up two Special Accounts in US dollars in
a commercial bank in Rwanda, with initial deposits of US$0.5 million each,
to serve as revolving funds for the project expenditures under IDA and the
Special African Facility credits.



- 20 -
55.       Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements.  The RB would
naintain accounts of all expenditures and operations in respect of road
maintenance, including accounts reflecting the expenditures made under the
investment budget, and separate accounts of the project to be financed by
IDA. The project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors; reports would be provided annually to IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
Economic Benefits and Risks
56.       The main direct benefit to be derived from the physical
components of the project would be savings in vehicle operating costs. In
addition, improved road maintenance would reduce future road repair and
reconstruction costs as well as freight damage, travel time and other
economic and social costs. The beneficiaries of the saviugs in vehicle
operating costs would, in the first instance, be the traders/truckers and
car owners. In view of the competitive conditions in the road transport
industry, however, the savings would be passed on to consumers and
producers. Since the labour-intensive routine maintenance is undertaken
over the network largely in low-income rural areas, the project would also
contribute to poverty alleviation in these areas.  The rural poor wQuld
benefit from the project through higher farmgate prices for their sales,
and lower prices for their purchases of farm inputs and consumer goods.
The project will provide for improved arrangements for maintainance of the
unclassifed road network (communal roads). Over time, benefits would
accrue to growing segments of the rural population in Rwanda who depend on
these roads for their economic activities.
57.       The Project components to be carried out with consultants'
assistance and training would lead to improved operations of RB and
institution-building in the transport sector. No economic rate of return
(ERR) bas been calculated for these items, but in view of their expected
impact on operations and policies, they are well justified. The elements
of the prcject for which costs and benefits have been quantified represent
94% of the total project costs. The ERRs for these elements would range
between 15% and 100%, with an overall ERR of 46.2 percent. Sensitivity
tests on critical variables determining the outcome of the ERR calculation
indicate that under unfavorable assumptions, the ERR for the project
components would still exceed the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Rwanda (8-10% percent).
58.       None of the Project components would adversely affect the
environment. The works to be undertaken would improve the drainage system
and smoothen the existing tortuous alingment, contributing in the meantime
to a reduction in traffic noise, accidents and pollution in the areas being
served.
59.       The main risks facing the project are that implementation
schedules and costs may be adversely affected by shortages of imported
fuel, parts and materials caused by the tight foreign exchange situation of



- 21 -
Rwanda and/or transport difficulties in neighboring countries. To minimize
the risk of implementation delays and cost increases, the project would help
finance about 60Z of the fuel and parts needed for the maintenance program and
would provide for two revolving funds. Moreover, provision would be made for
a larger than usual stock of materials and fuel in the contract documents for
the reconstruction of the Kigali-Gatuna road.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA and Special African Facility
credits would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the
Executive Directors' Resolution no. 85/1 establishing the Special African
Facility, respectively, w-d I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Credits.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attacbments
Washington, D.C.
November 8, 1985



- 22 -                                             Annex I
TArLs U                                          Page 1 of 6
RIIAISA               - SOCAl. inicATS    A  s
RHAJDA                              eMgEc a cR WS  IGND AVERACES) I.
- Is?                     oo(NUiTr RT ESrTIATE) 1/
196db         luniT          LtW UCOM AFLICA          mm=T.11m-
igsJo     a,!! mk iw!Trs !b        sou or sAHAA         AFRICA S. oF SAMAa
ABUA C163m IQ. no
TOTAL                              26.3        26.3       2b.3
DARQILTURAL                        15.0        15.2       1418
GM MR C A    )                         ..          ..       270.0             23S.3                   1063.5
mi_ um o       on    cazrr
(KILOGRMS  Of O.L .auALT           w 10.0     11.0        16.0              62.3                    561.5
iaroLm Am hL STAElTCS
FOlPULATSO 1.l-IAR (THOUSAiDS)   2753.0     3695.0      5674.0
Uan  POVULATIOU CZ OW TUor          2.4        3.2         *a               20.1                     37.0
POPULATION IEDJSCTZUI
roSUUION IN 1TZA 20O0 (WELL)                            10.2
STATIWART FOFLATIO  (HLL                                40.0
FOEULATION ISNIUNK                                       2.0
POEULATIWN uuSr
MM SQ. M.                       104.5       140.3      215.4              33.2                     65.1
ME  Sq. m. AGUR. Lu             164.1       202.9      370.9             112                      124.6
FOEUTLATU LOS STEUCTUS CI)
0-1 us                         4.2       4*.6         46.6              46.0                     43.
15-" US                          53.0       51.5        50.5              50.6                     51.5
65 AND ADM                        2.6        2.7         2.8               2.9                      2.7
WOVULAZIW GOWuR RATE CZ)
TOTAL                             2.6        2.9         3.3               2.8                      2.9
1033                              5.3         5.8        6.3               64                       S.1
aim RATE ("E  TOS)                 511        31.6        51.9              47.2                     47.0
CRtUS DRATR RATS Cm  TRI5)         19.2       17.6        19.4              17.5                     15.0
GEM IwRmI     am                    3.5        3.6         4.1               3.3                      3.2
PAKXLT   WINC
ACCEPTOR. ARL( S) ....
USERS CZ OF H ID  1NO             ..          ..         1A                3.3                      6.4
uMOE o0r M PSOID. PU CAM
1l969-71-100)                      61.0       102.0      107.0              62.3                     62.9
rot Cann Sam or
CALORIEs (Z 0 guEURIsI)          61.0       *5.0        U6.0              87.7                     98.5
ro0m"" (CRAM DPo)                49.0       54.0        50.0              51.9                     55.4
OF WICl ANDMAL AND IPM          26.0       33.0        29.0 Ic           1s.?                     16.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) OEA  RAIL         37.5       32.5        26.0              23.1                     16.6
LIES EBRC. Ar 5132 ClAs)           46.2       4*6.0       4.5               47.8          52.0
1WAIr5 MiT. MRA  (U 1W0s)         166.5      149.5       125.0             119.5                    106.6
A:5S TO SAI A=t (1101)
TOTAL                             ..          ..        54.o M            27.1                     42.4
U                                 ..          ..        4.0 7             63.5                     67.5
RURal.                            .           .         S5.077            19_3                     35.6
ACCE5S TO MRRTA DISPOSAL
t7. OF IIIXTM
TOTAL                             ..         53.0       S1A 14            26_5                     25_9
U                                 ..         U3.0       60.0 7            65.4                     37.7
USIA?.  _.  52.0     50.0 77           20A                      20D7
PCWL ATICI Pn PsI1r1           1290S0.0 I* 3900.0    31340. OJ           279017                   11791.7
P0. FIR NIRSiSE 1USd            11270.0 7-   620.0      9790.071          3306.4                   2459.8
OFO P. in  PrnIAL MORED3.
TOTAL                             ..        790.0      650.0 id         1273.6                    9U1.1
gUam                              _         50.0        50.077          *42.2                     368.I
RAL                               ..      310o0       1600.07           3292.5                   4371.9
AWSSIONS In MO5ITOAL M              .         21.2         ..                ..                     27.2
TOML                              ..          ..
RAL                               ..         ..          .                  ..
AVuRR=  me. 01 iUr5zn 3OOH
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBA                               .          .
TOTAL                              ..
uua~                     ..          ..         .                  ..
RDURL                             ..         ..          .                  ..
.~ ~~gs



-23 -                                              Annex I
A AL  IA                                        Page 2 of 6
- SOCCL IXTICAS                  OATA 3
EUAA                 E UN SNC3  rA      )110=D  9S -
1 1L9   IL-' sSV            'oruSm"                        Mr S. OF SU
sno~to~ m rC                                       wI                        s
1363S   OTL                      69.0        74.0       70.0               67.0                     35.7
PILZ                   ".0        03.0        72.0              77.6                    100.0
FENAVE                 30.0       65.0        67.0              S6.9                     03.2
sIDaET: TOTAL                     2.0         20         2.0               13.5                     17.3
HALS                    2.0        3.0         3.0              17.9                     2-.0
SIDA                    1.0        1.0         2.0               9.t                     X4.0
VoCITzSI C 0C or s553103)          39.9        12.2       26.                13.2                      5.9
IUPZL-UIRAK RaTw
pEaffw                           39A0        G0.0       556               44.9                     41.1
14.0       13.0       14.0               27F                      25.5
a-n
PASSNu CroSflUNU    MP              o.a         0.9        ..                  a2O.
Low  OF I        cruous_m  FM                   6.1         .s      a        55sa                    107.1
UUEYUhOSU  POP.                                ..         ..                2.4                     20.0
man c-o  c*
U ?ZW) aaaUXLM
Pn 20         ?OPULATICI           ..          .          0.1                5.0       -               .4
CM_ AAL                    T         -           .         0.1                0.5                      0.4
TOTML LABR rm  (INDUS)           156.0       207.0      2915.0
PmROW SCIR                       49.1        "A         43A                34.2.                    36.2
'm    CPnc37                     9t.0        93.0       91.0n L            77.5                     3.s5
Im101 IC  InA 1.0                             2.0        20                 9.7                     1.3
TOTL                             56.6 .       36        51.4               393                      36.0
NMLK                             S.          36.9       56.5               50.9                     47.1
rzwjx                   ~~~~36.4    31.9        494               23.1                     V27
-aoNIc DUSSMCK RAMO                 0.          0.9        O.                 1J                       1J
- -1
Pm mr u
mum    OFas  moa
31    or 01 MUSUO              ..         ..         .                   ..
3ICIS? 202 or F_*-01.             ..          ....
Ler 202 Or MUII                   ..          ..         .                   ..
LOEWS 62. OF .0.0  
ZOW  &Or  C jsma
Lem CUS        O P  CApIT)
1                                 .,          ..       16.0               165.5                    590.7
RAL                               .. ..                  ..               95.0                     273.3
-    ,.ATs om
LVEL CUS$ PM3 CAP=TA)
DRUM.                             ..          ..         ..               113.1                     45A.
A                                  ..         ..        43.0,^             67.6                    201.1
SSTI oW. mW *Auwu
1055?! INCOME LonE CZ)
0                                 ..          ..        30.0j,            3..6
WEAl...                              ..          ..               41.8.
30 ALVAILAZ
I0r APPzWAE
CkTb group averemse for ea*h tInteutef am  ---ai.mUhe   att. si            m. boe.m5e of C!S.inl
ammg tbs lIlcesams dspade an aweaslabiy of dam m   inL MtS mlme..
Unles. oRbeAmie mmmd. Ome ls  19r40" sales to in yeaw bet.a.los5 and 1961t "leA. for 197V humt.
Ak   969 and 1971; and data hr 'Mmc bteau  E.inSe" betume  1061 mi 1983.
A.1977;A .f. 9S0, /. 1943.
.1   16



-24 -                                                         Annex r
Page 3s  of 6
DEFINTrlOF1S OF SOCIAL DNDICATORS
Notuc Althouh the data are drwn wrromusem pncially judgd thc most authoritativc and r1iab  it should also be nted that they may mbeinnerastionally
ceparabl becam of the lck of standrid dellttioion and conept ued by dilferent countries in collcting the dat The dan are. nocibdL ureful to
dcribe erdes of agtud. indicat ra and chactie crtain mjr dileren  betwen countries
The re&reac group are (I) th  me country group of the subject country and (21 a conitry group with somewhat higher averac income than the country
sroup or de bjectcountry (except fer HiSh Income Oil Exporter group wbhe -Middle Income North Afrim and Middle Eat is chosen becaus ofs r
soediewclturall a5huitics). In the mresence group data the ivterages ar populati  weighted Adthnetic meaws for each indicster sad shown only when majordty
orthecounie in a group hasdata for [hut indicator. Since the coveroe orountries amass the indicters depends on the availability ordas and is not uniform.
caution mus becercisdin el ting averag one indic torto another. Ths averaes afe only utrul in compadng the walueoronc indiatara a timnemong
the ountry and rfemnc groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Cr   ith Rate (per thsmnd)-Number of livc births in the year
Thtal-Totad surfacEc area comprising land are and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 da'a.                                       Crde Death Rot (er pt rhead)-Number of deaths in the year
A5rikurwl-E.stimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year populaion; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
pemanendy for crops. pstures. market and kitchen gardens or to   Gross Rep rddo Rate-Average number of daughters a Woma
lie faUow. 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her nonnal rcproducive period if she experienes
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capita estimates at curremt          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
manke pres. clculated by same conversion method as World         Fomiy PAlannhs-Accepters, Anal th.mbunds)-Annual nun-
Bank Atl  (I98183 basis)k 1983 data.                             ber ofacccptors ofbirth-control dvicm under auspiccs ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual appar.mt                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      Fordly Pltri-Usmr (pfteaw  of mriTed mnenx)-Tie percen-
petroleum. natural gas and bydro-. nuckar and geothernal elec-   tage or marned women or child-bearing age who ar practicing or
tuicity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 190, 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontrception. Wome
1982 data.                                                      orchild-bearingage are generally womeL aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usae is meaured ror odier age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Tat98 Plodatfim. MM-Yew (thousandr)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRMION.
and 1983 data.
trrbm PopnkWJ (pesgrcent of  tal)-Ratio, of urban to tomi        )1sdxefFdtJdPadacit Per Cait (1969-71- IN)-Index ofper
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  caplud annmal productaon os all food  commoditie P   smducton
ability of data atnong countries 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.      excludes ansmal feed andd seed5 fore agncltumFod cmoditiesar
ablisy ofdataamon coutries 196.197. an  198 t1~include primary commnodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
P*put    Projectons                               .              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffec and tea arc
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000   excluded) they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil sds.
made for each economy separately. Stating with information on    vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, ivestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock prduct. Aggregate production or ech countty is ba#d
international nigration in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gencralized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              PCrrGplifSupplyetfC    riers (perceat efq_JC et)-Comput-
Statiosriv poputation-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tatity ratcs have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Availabl supplies mnprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, inports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In sudh a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quanities ued in
constant and equal to the death rate the age stucture is Also   food procesing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth ratc is zero. The stationary population  esdmated by FAO based on pysiological needs for normal actvity
sie was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body wesghts.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. ind allowiing 10 perent for
rate to repblcment lcvd.                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popsdaizn Moenturn-Is the tendency for population growth to     Pr COPEa Sapply ofP Awe (raisor pa day)-Proten content of
continue beyond the time that replacment-level fertility has bcee  per capita net supply or food per day. N4et supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momnentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grats of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pube protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remnains at replace-  sbould be animal protein. Thse standrds.are lwer than those or
ment kvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 gmts of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
h*d-d. Density                                                  averap for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Pr sqkrm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (IOD hec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tam) of total area 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                    Per Capst hotel Supply from A_1su ad Pais-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agrku nura lwd-Computed as above for agricultural      of food derived fron animals and pulses in grms perday; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
P qpatio Age Strnctrn (percentD-Children (0- 14 years). work-    ChN  ges 1-4) Deah Rate (per tho-nd)-Number of deaths of
ing ag (15-64 years). and retired (65 yes and over) as percenutage  chidren aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mnid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dataL              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Papidulati  Growth Rate (percent)-tof al-A nnual growth rates of  from life tabks; 1960. 1970 and 1983 datL
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-43.     HEALTH
PoplAtle Growt ate (percent)-air.u-AAnnual growth rates          Life Ezpecmey at Bkth (yews)-Number of years a newborn
of urban populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prvaiing patterns of mortality for all people



- 25 -                                                 Annex I
Page 4 of 6
at the ime of of its birth ire to sty the same throughout its life;  Pupil-reacher Ratio - prufarr. and seondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 ad 1983 dam                                        roled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbem of
how Msalty Aatr (par oh..sud)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding Lvdse.
before reaching one year of oae per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Amuv so S*  WfIK    (pmat of Md                     , aid     Pasenge  Cw  (per tskasd pepaWna)-Passenger cars com-
mwP-Number of people (totaL urban and runa) with rsonable      prise motor cars seating ess than eight persons excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (idudes treated swrface watr or   ances. hearses and military vehicles.
unteated but uncontmmied water such as that tran proIted      A Rar  Receins (per theamsndpopsa.)-All types of receivers
bovehle sprg and saitary wdls) as percentages of their respa  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive popuatoni In n urba area a pubic fountain or standpost   excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located nt more than 20D mews from a house may be considered  regitrtion or radio sets was in effect; data for rccent years may
a beig witi reasonable acoe. of that house In rural ares      not be compaable since most countries abolished licensing.
easonable adme  o imply that the housewifc or members of the   TVReers (pgr thsmipepoduieu-TV rcevers for broadcast
o _do oot have to spend a diprporfionna    part of the day   v             _         -n         rso bdcs
ion bo  d nt   se wow amdis                       the         to general public per thousand population: excudes unlicensed TV
ina~    tvhE4esS fi ', receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Amt. i Exernt Ois,mf (paint ~fp*~pw1fte)au-tae4 wINS,    in effect.
ml nwv-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural) served by
excreta diposl   percntages of their respective populations.   Newsp4w C;ae (per thorsand peplanin)--Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the coLlection and disposal, with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper- defined as a
wihout teoamt. of buma  excrema and waste-water by watcr-     periodicl publication devoted prinarily to recording gneral news.
borne syseu or the use of pit privies and similar insallations.  It i5 consided to be -daily' if it appears at kast four tines a week.
R,-bta pfer FI,*iu-lPopulation divided by number of prac-     Ca       A _u  nal Ateadawe per Capa per YeKr-fased on the
tisg physicians quaified from a medical school at university level  number of ticKets sold during the year. including admissions to
ApmuriN per ANurg Pmea-Fopulation divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile unims
practcing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.  LABOR FORCE
practicl murs and nuring auxiliaLrie.v                                                                              . i
R    _ I I A   p  Hoq&d &4-4Bed-teed Jb  rrw,   -if puIation  der ner Frmed  (trEraDducmponyedicalbu  active persons, in-
(tota, urban, and ruraa) divided by their resective number,of  duding ated foDres and unemployed bu excumding hounves.
bedsOavailble in pulbic antdpritns,general .ndspliedgj     students, etc.. covening population of all ages. Definitionis in
bospial and  raehablin  cenicrs.Hotal are etblishnents        vanous countnies are not comparablek 1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.
permanenay staffed by at least one phyician. Establiluhcts prov  Fs  (perrw-Female labor hfoce as percentage of total labor
iding pincpaly custodil care ame not induded. Rual hospitals,  force.
however. indude health and medical centers not permnntly staffed  A ,giknlr  (perceon-Labor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medial assistant, nursc midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data
of medical facirties.                                         Inwustry (perc ar-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adulse  pgr Hrekd Bed-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and dectcity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discha  fikm hospitals divided by the number of beds.         forc  1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
PW*ips Rate (pece)j--totu  asak, andfJ6d-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male, and female labor roree
Ar-   Ste f HOr   ehel (pons par hviusehdd)-4W. wuba          as prcentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
animel-A household consists of a group of individuak who share  respecively. 1960. 1970. and 19113 data These are based on ILOs
lving quarats and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-x structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long tune trend. A few estimates arc from national sourc.
Aerage N_ilier of Pazma per Areap-total, arIa, aud rmnal-      Ecoene  D-peudrewy Rado-Ratio of population under IS. and
Aveage number of persons per room in al urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively Dwellings exclude
non-permanent strucmres and unoccupied parts                  INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Pecta  of DnANas with E_kc y-eor4  arnsr and ral-             Per_uw of Teed Dispesube Icew (bath in ch and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with ekctricity in living quartas as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tap of total, urban, and rural dwelings respectivly           bold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4n_d Ewat JAdes                                              The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
h*auy  alo - toado male and fevdm -Gross .oi, m    and        leves and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment ofall ags at the primary level as percentages of  Eitimated Absolute Rbaerty Incew Leve (US; pe capiea-rhan
spective prmary school-ge poputions While many countries      and rnal-Absolute poverty income lcvel is that income level
consider primay school ae to be 6-11 years others do noto The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflcted in the rtios givaL For some countries with universal  Esnjped Relative Rbm   ncoen  Leed (USS per ca$aJ-arban
education, gss enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   an *a-Rural relative povc.ty income lcvel is one-third of
pupis are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal incom  of the country. Urban levd is
agc                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Sec;dary sdhol - toea. male and fera--Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
scondary edation requir  at last four yeas of approved pn-    Estmated PApian Belaw Abwhore Powt& Jacoae Lewd (per-
MOy itrut    provides generaL vocationaL or t r training      ceai-alah  and rura- Percent or population (urban and rural
insucti  for pupis usaly of 12 to 17 yars of a; correspond-   who are absolute poor.'
enae coums are genay Clad-
Voeana  Eiomei (percent ojf smconAy)-Vocational istitu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
ions include tecncaL indsriaL or other programs which operate         Economic Analysis and Projections Deparment
indepeadenty or as departments of secodary institutions.                              June 1985



-26 -                                   Annex I
:Page  5 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - RWAtWDA
AREA                                         708LAS101                          DEWIT  (1913)
26.3 tbhousd sq. km.                         S-7 million (1963)                 210 Prr sq. km.
"Mt of Crowth:                    393 per  q. km. of
3.7                                 *arable land
POPULATION CuARACRIs9CS   961-83)                                 WEALTH (1980
Crude Bsrch Rate (Per 1.000)            51.9                        ul-tii  par phyalcian         31.340
Crude Death Rate tper 1.000)            19.4                      Population per hospltal bed        660
IPCOIIC DISTRIUUTIOII                                             KERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
Z of "a1008a income. higsest quintlle   .(mlo                                  I coal eqa vi_vae)   21.0
loest quintlle
ACCESS TO SD FE WAr^TE (1930)                     -               ACCESS TO ELECTICIY
2 of population - tota1                 54.0                      S of populatlos - total            2.0
- rural
NUTRITION (1981-638  E3)CTION  (1tl980)
Clorl-e inta   *-_  of ruirents    S660                           Adolt litrep rate-                37.0
Per caplta protein ltake               50.0                      Primary school enrollmet 2        72.0
(grams/day)
CUP PER CAPITA In 1983 : US 260
GROSS DOMESTIC ProDUcr Is 1963                                             ANUAL tATE OF cRolir
(2. constant 1963 pricte) 21
USS Ni..       S                                      1979-64
COP at larket Pricet         1.503.1     10.0                                         4.2
Cross Do_eetic IUVeStmet       203.5      13.5                                        7.1
Gross  atltonal Saving          39.6       2.6
Curreot Aceoat Balance       -170       -11.3
Export of Goods, 373           137.3       9.1                                      -2.83/
Import of Coods. NIs           272.3      18.1                                        5.1
GOVERMENZT FINANcE
Central Gavernuent
bur KID.              2 of CUT
_954          1954            1960
Current Receipts                                     11.09 TIM         T
Current  xpeaditure                   15,753         10.0             9.4
Current Suwplus/deficlt                1.616          1.0             2.9
Capital Expenditures                   2,626          1.7             2.1
Overall Surplesldeficit *t            -3.741         -2.3             0.8
I/ Preliuloary data.
2/ uased on end-perlod values.
TI The decline In exports drilag tbis period is explatned by tbh fact that 1979 was
an export boos year.
*/ The overall eurplus Is not equal to the differece beteen current savings and dsvelopuent
expenditurea because the consolidated surplus or daficit of the Trea sry speclal accounts is not Ehown in thls
table.
not available
not applicable



- 27 -                                             Annex I
CoUuVtV DATA - UtAWDA                                   Page 6 of 6
hOVgC  CREDIT AND PRICES                  1979        1980         1981        1912         1983        1984
(Milli iWF outstanding ead period)
Meney Suppiyl                           14.112      16,117       15.938      16,15       18,054      19.074
Bank Credlt to rooverant Cost)           -1.473      -3,981      -2.918         482         2.010       1,912
Z ok Credir to Prlvate Sector             4.564       6.480        8.147      85849        9.3U7       11.587
(Percentege or tndex Nwbebrs)
money as Z of GDP                          14.1        13.1         12.9        12.0         12.8        12.2
Coneos-r Price Tndex C1980 - 100)          93.2       100.0        106.5       119.8        127.7       137.5
Annwal pere-ncage chaOg-s In:
Coonsmer Price Zud-e                     15.8         7.3          6.5        12.4         6.6          7.7
Sank Credit to Government c(set)     -6404.3        170.3       -26.7        -76.6      -394.7         -4.9
80l-k Credit tD Privkt- Sector          -11.1        *2-0         25.7         8.6         11.7        17.2
ULANCI OF PATEEs                                                              NERCIIAJDISE EXPOm  (AVERACt 1979-1984)
Actual                                          US$ Wine 
v in current uS S)
1980  _1981   1932   1  98s3      '      Coffee                 83.2      61.7
TOM                   13.7       10.3
Exports of Goods A ServIces           166     150    141    150    172        Ceseiterite            13.0       9.6
of wbich:  aerchsndleo f.o.b.      (134)   (113)  (109)  (124)  (141)       wolfram                 3.8       2.8
imports of Goods & Servlces          -323    -332   -338   -307   -309        Pyrethruc               1.1       0.8
of whicb: *crcbandise f.o.b.    (-196)  (-207) (-215) (-190) (-184)         Ciachons                1.4       1.0
Wet Transfers                          -3      -2     -1     -5       5       Otber                  18.6      13.8
Het Factor Iocme                        5      12    -2      -8      -4                             134.8  Z0
Current Account Salance              -155    -168   -198   -170   -136        EsTE PAL Dth. DECEMBER 31. 1981
US$ KID.
official Crants                       106     10    105    112    101        Public Debt, lncl guarsotedl 220.0
Private Direct Investment              17      19     21     11      10       Ion-Cuarantetd Private Debt
"LT official Cte-)                     33      25     25     36      39       Total Outstanding * Dlebureed d
Otber Capital                          12      17      4     -8      -
Change in Reserves                   -13        1     43     19    -14         Mrr DEST SERVICE RATIO yov 1936 3J
InternatIonal Reservem                165     166    123    104   l1                                        2
Reserves as mooths of importe         6.1     6.0    *.3    4.0    *.5        Public Debt, inlz.nuaranteed 3.5
of goode end of servce e                                                    Non-Gu arnteod Private Debt
Patrol-a- Imporct*/                  28.7    43.2  46.0   51.0   51.9         Total Outstanding S Disbursed
Petroleou  Exporte.
RATE 0F EICRANGE                                                               IDA LENDTIC. NARC  31. 19S5 (USSMih.)
Annual       *    End                                                             TOA
Aver gef           Pslrod                           Outstanding & Disbursed        142.3
1974 -nd Aeg 1983      Feb. 195                          Utndlsbermd                    104.9
Outstanding Including
uSS 1.00 - xwr             92.84               106.5                             Undisbursed                  247.2
ReF t.00 - USS              0.011                0.009
iwF 1.00 - 51                ..                 0.010
SDR 1.00 - KW?                                 102.71
1/ Includes Money and Quasi Money
Z/ Provieeaosl
3/ Debt service not of interest earned on foreign exchange reeorv*e
as a perceetage of Exeorts of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
4/ Crude Derivatives
not *vadlabls
not applicable



- 28-
Pq  I. of 2
lH STAlE CSBUAK  Nw aERU Dl INNa
A. Stat t of M  Crd.Lts
( of Sepitr 30, 1985)
-NO 13$ Malian
CLedit *L    Fiscal Ye       l br Uorp                                    (Im   nwlulathxm)
_ _ _   _ _ _        _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _   ~~~~~~M   Thdlubirud
(Tan czdit bw, basi flly dIsbssd)I/                                        77.49
937-. 2/ 3/  1979         BMWla       1Mutam Agriculbz  & LIvinbdk
eopmt                              8.75     2.65
1O0-w         198D                     TzteCatsl Fbritry &  Livetod&
1Dwe1opi~t                        21.W      2.64
10(           1981            -           %     1 _                        7.50     527
112&I        1981                        ee/Eoo                           15.00     5.75
1217-i        1982 Tedeal hudastm                                         5.00      3.54
1250-Ni       19W2                     Fifth ElMy                          25.90    12.45
123-iW        l9B2                     Setd i  duet1a                     10.00    8.65
120M      L1982                    Fa    II     II         w           16.30     7.91
1Y.44-W       19m3                     SRD Im                              7.00     4.18
1345-i        193                      waer Suply                          13.00    6.24
142DW         1986            -        Rulzi   I      ectri                15.00    11.64
1495-i        1984g                    P,er                                9.00     8.48
154b-Zi4/ 4   1985                     Micuizal. !mearc1                  11.50    11.50
1565- 4/      1985            -        Thdcal Aadstaz  II                  4.80     4.8D
TO_a                         247.24    95.70
of vtdch bw been rpid             1.33
Total n  outstxldirg         245.91
Amt mld              3.40
of ,ich bw burn repid 3.40
Mta  nw bald by MA,          245.91
Total mad1neumd                        95.70
1/ i a bs recive no 8ck .m.
The MA, cmdit iu             by a EEC Spedal Actoi  Qmdt of W$1.7 idliui
In chuld   a ID Gat Prticipation of 4.4 ml lion.
_' Not ye effedive.



- 29 -
POP 2 of 2
B. State.t of IWC Iuvstats In Fzx1a
(a of h,gt  31, 1985)
IPC'Is exdstg invbts In   adomprse the teo lnveienlta previouly vade In
So*u.tli atd its puedeseor copLin, SMr aal idUE. Datil are    o ilfoU.
US$ '00(
TotalL
Invesnt   Fiscal               Type of                            Idd by
__               ,             __ Epm                       lE     C nishmd
337-i        L975     SozDmtbf)Mea rous-  -       0.54   0.54       0.J2-
mumketli
470-W        1979     Sor.t1)             0.06 a/ 0.23   029        0.13
764-if       19Sf     Sorwatbi)             -     0.25   0M          -      0.2
Total                        0.06    L.2   l.OB       0.37    0.25
va/    dled in 7/84.



- 30 -
Annex III
RWANDA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Ideutification                    May, 1984
(b)  Project Preparation               October, 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission                 December, 1984
(d)  Negotiations                       September, 1985
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effective                February, 1986
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
(a) Review and agreement on annual updating of forward road sector
expenditures program (para. 27); provision for comprehensive training
programs (para. 48,e); and monitoring of implementation (para. 50).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to strenghten transport planning within the organizational
structures of MPW and MOTC by June 30, 1986 (para. 28);
(b) Goveronent to prepare, by June 30, 1986, proposals for gradually financing
a larger share of recurrent road maintenance expenditures (para. 41);
(c) Government to prepare every year its work program for road maintenance for
the following year, to furnish it to IDA by October 31 for review, and
finalize them taking into account IDA's comments (para. 50);
(d) Government to confirm financing arrangements for reconstruction of Section
III of the Kigali-Gatuna road, prior to disbursement IDA funds for this
project component (para. 54).
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Enactment of the new law on traffic regulations (para. 36); and
(b) Strengthening of the Roads Branch Personnel Bureau, and setting up of a
Training Unit and Training Coordination Committee (para. 48,e).



- 31 -
Annex IV
Procurement Arrangements
(USSmillion) 1/
Not        Total
Project Element         ICB        LCB        Other      Appli-2/
cable
Civil Works             21.9                                         21.9
(12.1)                                       (12.1)
Equipment, Materials   13.3        0.5        1.0           6.4      21.2
Supplies               (12.8)     (0.4)      (0.9)                  (14.1)
Consultant Services                           6.0          0.4        6.4
and fellowships                            (5.8)                   (5.8)
Personnel                                                   9.6       9.6
35.2       0.5        7.0         16.4       59.1
(24.9)     (0.4)      (6.7)                  (32.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed under the proposed
project (including the US$1.0 million from UNDP for which IDA would be
the Executing Agency), the Fifth Highway Project and the Special African
Facility.
2/ Contracts financed by Government and by other donors.



-                            al~~~i.                                                                         -  w  Mb
RW A NDAj.                                                                                                                             _ 
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                   )         u G A N D A
.... .ROAD COSttlCT....... UNOIR UIVIOUK I4IOHWAY PPOJICTh
-   PANRA ROAM                                                         /
___   OlOA3&AW W\rMd1    TO PA ADD IATAN   A NIA
am ua raw" ~ ~ ~~*                       ZAIR
- ^  A N IIC { ;   j ' J h  .:
_~~~~~~~~~~~.                                _                 P 1 
-0        O;                           f     ,t,\                                                                45
( _ ~~~Ra                                                                                                 BURU NDI
RW     o            ;1                                                                       
Mr gm



