Docunent of
The World Bank
FoR omFCIAL USE ONLY
C P. /(0 Y/- Rul
Report No. 5646-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 6, 1985
Transportation Division
Eastern & Southern Africa Regional Office
7hi dw_se u h  a rmir, d1ibWod  mad ia be Md bY redPlkis OY  b d   erfw           
Xir 6edal dutIe. lb es_mm   ma  a  erwlse be diseomud withot WoM dank authuatWO.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           -    Rwandese Franc (FRW)
US$ 1.00                _    FRW 1051/
WEICGTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             x    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)  -    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)          -    2.47 acres (ac)
I metric ton (m ton)   -    2,204 pounds (lbs)
ACRONYMS AND ABREVIATIONS
BADEA    e     Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
DANIDA   -     Danish International Development Agency
ECD      E     Engineering and Control Department
EDF      =     European Development Fund
FRG      -     Federal Republic of Germany
MOTC           Ministry of Transport and Communications
MPW      =     Ministry of Public Works
RB       =     Roads Branch of the Ministry of Public Works
STIR     -     Societe des Transports Internationaux du
Rwanda
UNDP     =     United Nations Development Programme
vOC      =     Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd            Vehicle per Day
WD       =     Works Department
WFP            World Food Program
'W       =     Workshop and Warehouse Section
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Rate used in the evaluation of this project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RVA
SIXTH HIG(WAY PROJECT
STAP? APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMIARY                                              i-ii
I.   7ER TRANSPORT SECTOR          ..........................................  1
A.  Economic and Sector Features...............................  1
B.  Sector Development Objectives and Organization.............  1
C.  Transport Planning and Transportation Sector Expenditures..  2
D.  International Transport............................................  4
E.  Roads and Road Transport ........................... ... .....   5
(i)  The Network ........................................   5
(ii)  Road Use .............................................. 6
(iii)  Road Transport Industry ................ ..............  6
(iv)  Road User Charges......................................  7
(v)  Traffic Regulations and Road Safety................  8
F.  Other Modes .......................................s.......  8
Ci)  Lake Transport .....................................   8
(ii)  Air Transport .....................................  8
G.  Highway Administration.....o....e........*.e..................  9
Ci)  Organizational Structure, Staffing, Training...0...  9
(ii)  Financing ..*......... .... 10
(iii)  Road Maintenance and Equipment Management.......... 11
(iv)  Engineering and Construction.................00*00000 11
H.  Experience with Past lending in the Sector................. 12
II.  T7E PRO9RKL  AND THE PROJECT .       ................................... 14
Ao  Objectives -vooen.ooomo ..oa.e.oooooo.,........................... 14
B.  The Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Program (1986-1989) 14
(i)  Maintenance Works by Force Account................. 14
(ii)  Maintenance Works by Contract      ............       ........... 15
(iii)  Reconstruction of Kigali Gatuna Road............... 16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Rwanda
in December 1984. Mission members included J. Van der Ven (Sr. Econo-
mist), P. Sooh (Highway Engineer), A. Kassab (Financial Analyst).  C.
Tran-Luu (Training Specialist) visited Rwanda in February 1985.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offiia duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page No
(iv)  Improvement of Soils Laboratory....................  17
(v)  Manpower Development...............................  17
(vi)  Consulting Services. ........... ......*. ............  17
(vii)  Complementary Sector Actionse.......................  18
C.  Costs of the Program....................................  19
D.  Financing of the Program.......... .........................  21
E.  Annual Programming and Monitoring..........................  22
F.  Components Financed by the Project.........................  23
G.  Implementation and Procurement.............................  25
H.  Disbursemente...... .e................. e........seeee..e.ee  .  27
I.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requireuents............  28
J.  Environmental Aspects .................................         29
K.  Poverty Alleviation Aspects          ...............................  29
III. ECONMC  INVALUION                                                    30
A*                                                                  eea .............................. 30
B.  Benefits and Beneficiaries.................................  30
C.  Economic Evaluation of the Maintenance Program.............  31
D.  Economic Evaluation of the Kigali-Gatuna Road ..............s  32
E.  Overall Evaluation of Project Components...................  34
Fe                                                                  ik .............................. 35
IV.             REACHED AND        1 1COhIIKI IDATON ........ .................  36
1.1 Development of Paved Roads
1.2 Vehicle Fleet
1.3 Imports of Petroleum Products - Fuel Prices and Taxes
1.4  Government Revenues from Road users and Expenditures on Raods
1.5 Air Transport
1.6 Highway Expenditures 1976-1983
2.1 Maintenance of Paved Roads
2.2 Maintenance of Earth/Gravel Roads
2.3 Equipment Requirements
2.4 Staffing and Manpower Development
2.5  Technical Assistance
2.6 Study of Communal Roads
2.7 Consultant Services in Transport Planaing
2.8 Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Program (1986-1989)
Financing Plan
2.9 Programming and Monitoring of Maintenance Program
3.1  Cost of Force Account Maintenance Activities
3.2 Vehicle Operating Costs



(iii)
3.3 Economic Evaluation - Resurfacing and Regravelling/Improvement
3.4 Economic Evaluation - Routine Maintenance
3.5 Economic Evaluation of Reconstruction of the Xigali-Gatuna Road
4.   Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
CBARTS
1.   Organization of the Roads Branch
2.   Project Implementation Schedule
mAS
IBRD 18973
IBRD 18940



(iv)
RHADA
SI3T  HIGHWAY PRoJsc
Credit and Project S_mary
Borrower: Republic of Rwanda
Amount:   An IDA credit of SDR 10.7 million (US$11.0 million equivalent)
and an African Facility Credit of SDR 14.5 million (US$15.0
million equivalent).
Terms:    Standard IDA terms
Project:  The project objectives are: (i) to improve public expenditure
policies in the highway sector by assisting Government to develop
appropriate forward road maintenance and construction programs;
(ii) to strengthen donor coordination in the sector with a view
to channeling external aid to high priority needs (iii) to
improve road maintenance and construction planning; (iv) to
strengthen the capacity of the Roads Branch for administering the
country's road network; and (v) to improve road maintenance
operations and thereby reduce road transport system costs.
To achieve these objectives, the project would help finance the
Government's 4-year (1986 - 1989) road maintenance and
reconstruction program and would provide for technical assistance
and training to assist in institution building and human resource
development. It would include in particular: (i) road
maintenance works; (ii) improvement of facilities of the
Government's soils laboratory; (iii) training; (iv)
reconstruction of the Kigali-Gatuna road; and, (v) consulting
services for development of better techniques for maintenance of
communal roads and for transport planning.
Benefits: The principal benefits would be a reduction in road transport
system costs due to reduced vehicle operating costs, deferred
costly road reconstruction and improved road safety.
Risks:    The main risks facing the project are implementation delays and
cost increases that could arise if shortages develop in imported
fuel, parts and materials as a result of the tight foreign
exchange situation of the country and/or transport difficulties
in neighboring countries. The measures included under the
project would substantially reduce this risk.



(v)
Estimated Prolect Costs                     Local    Foreign    Total
-  --US  oillion---
I  Works by Force Account                 8.87     16.91       25.78
II   Soils Laboratory                      0.08      0.70        0.78
III   Training                              0.17       1.12       1.29
IV Reconstruction of Section I & II
of Kigali-Gatuna Road 1/             2.15     14.44       16.59
V   Consulting Services                   0.37       3.44       3.81
Total Base Cost                 11.64     36.61      48.25
Contingencies
Physical (on Item IV)         0.22      1.52        1.74
Price                         2.17      6.98       9.15
Total Cost 2/                       14.03     45.11       59.14
Financing Plan                             Local    Foreisn    Total  Z of
-uS Million-- Total
Proposed IDA Credit and
African Facility Credit              -       26.0       26.0    44
IDA Fifth Highway Project 3/          -        5.0        5.0     8
UNDP                                             1.0       1.0     2
France                                 -        0.4        0.4     1
BADEA                                  -        7.6        7.6    10
wFP                                   0.5        1.4       1.9     3
Government-Recurrent Budget          11.3       3.7       15.0    25
Development Budget         2.2        -        2.2      4
Total Financing                     14.0      45.1       59.1   100
Estimated D±sbursement                    FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
(US$ million)
Annual                                      3.8    9.7    7.8    4.7
Cumulative                                  3.8   13.5   21.3   26.0
Economic Rate of Return:    46.2%
I/   The Government has requested and the European Development Fund(EDF) has agreed in
principle to provide total financing for the reconstruction of Section !II of the
Kigali-Gatuna Road.
2/   Including taxes on purchases financed by Government estimated at US$ 1.03 million.
3/   Funds for financing reconstruction of the Kiseali-Gatuns road are available under
the IDA financed Fifth Highway Credit (Credit 1250 RV of June 9, 1982)



I.  TM TR PSOT SECTOR
A. Economic and Sector Features
1.01      Rwanda is a small landlocked country; it is overpopulated, lacks
natural resources and is heavily dependent on a few agricultural crops for
its foreign exchange earnings. Its population of 5.8 million is
predominantly rural and lives scattered over a hilly countryside.
Population density at 390/k.2 is the highest in Africa. Agricultural
production is almost exclusively by smallholders who market limited
quantities of their produce. Other economic activities also are on a
relatively msall scale. Per capita income of about US$270 (1983) is among
the lowest in the world. Despite its handicaps, Rwanda has succeeded in
making important advances in agriculture, education, health, mall-scale
industry and basic transport and communications infrastructure. It is
likely, however, that due to a combination of unfavorable price
developments for its exports and structural weaknesses of its economy, it
will not be possible to sustain past economic growth which averaged 5.6%
over the period 1977-1981. Furthermore, the Government budget and the
balance of payments which have become precarious in recent years are
expected to remain tight.
1.02      Population and economic activity are distributed fairly evenly
over the country. However, owing to the scattered nature of agricultural
production and the limited quantities being marketed by smallholders,
transport flows are modest and consist mainly of export crops, imported
consumer goods and construction materials. The main transport flows are
between Kigali, the capital, and the exterior and between Kigali and the
regions. In view of the seasonal nature of agricultural exports these
flows tend to be unbalanced. The transport infrastructure consists of a
network of about 10,000 km of roads and tracks, Lake Kivu on the western
border, an international airport at Kigali and five smaller airports.
There are no railways or navigable rivers. Because of the hilly terrain
and difficult soil conditions, transport infrastructure is verv costly to
build and to maintain. These disadvantages are compounded by high external
transport costs owing to the long distances involved and the difficult
conditions of transit transport through neighboring countries. Yet, in
Rwanda the availability and cost of adequate transport facilities is of key
importance for agricultural production and the development of other sectors
of activity.
B. Sector Develo _ nt Objectives and Organization of the Sector
1.03      Government's last three development plans have assigned a key
role to transport in the development of the economy. Transport investments
and policies as stated in these plans have aimed in particular at:



(a) improvement of international transport connections; (b) upgrading of
the *main road network to facilitate the country's economic development and
its social and administrative integratioa; (c) improving the road network
in general through better maintenance of existlng roads; and (d) improving
transport services and lowering transport rates In the rural areas. These
objectives correspond broadly to the priority tasks of the sector and major
achievements have been made in each area. For the future, these broad
objectlves remain appropriate. However, more attention will need to be
given to translating them into well-balanced investment and maintenance
programs and policies and to implementation aspects (Para. 1.07).
1.04      Two ministries are directly involved in transport: (a) the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for road construction and maintenance; and,
(b) the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) for the development
of other modes and for the utilization of the transport infrastructure in
general. In addition, the Ministries of Planning and of Finance and
Economic Affairs are indirectly concerned with transport: the first for
determining sectoral priorlties and coordinating all public investments,
the second through taxation of inputs used in transport and for approving
transport tariffs. Finally the Central Bank has an influence on the
functioning of the transport sector through its role in the allocation of
foreign exchange. Government has recognized the multifaceted character of
transport aad the need for a focal point which is vested with the
responsibility for the efficient functioning of the sector. The new
organizational structure for the Ministry of Transpox.t and Communications
adopted in 1984 reflects the expanded responsibilities it has been given.
In regard to organization of the sector, the priority is now for improving
the mechanism for coordination between the various parts of Government
involved in transport (Para. 1.08).
0. Tresport PlanniE and Tranaport Sector Ezpenditures
1.05      The emphasis of Government's expenditure programs in transport
has been on the development of the basic road infrastructure. Successive
Five-Year Plans have allocated a substantial share of total planned
investments to transport and in particular to the Improvement to bitumen
standard of the roads providing access to the international transit routes
and of the main interregional roads. In the priority tranche of the
current Plan (1982-1986), transport accounted for 172 of planned
investments with new road construction taking more than 75Z of the total.
Since external financing is more easily available in transport than in
other sectors (78% of needed funds were committed as against 39% for other
sectors) plan implementation also tends to be better.
1.06      Despite the limited complexity of the sector (a relatively simple
infrastructure limited to one mode of transport) transport planning should
receive increasing attention. In the past, the responsibility for defiaing
highway expenditure programs has been divided between the Engineering and
Control Department for road construction and the Works Department for road
maintenance/rehabilitation. The focus has beer on planning project by



- 3 -
project. For new roads, generally a large amount of pre-investment work
has been undertaken by consultants prior to construction and those roads
which have been built have acceptable rates of return. However,
comprehensive programs which address the priority needs of the network and
covering both maintenance and construction were not prepared. In view of
the substantial funds involved in establishing and preserving an adequate
transport infrastructure and the needed shift in emphasis from
infrastructure development to Its efficient maintenance and utilization,
the priority in transport planning is now for the formulation and annual
updating of balanced public expenditure programs. The approach was
initiated during the preparation of the Sixth Highway Project (Para. 1.08).
1.07      As part of Its long term aim of paving all interregional roads,
Government attaches importance to the paving of four roads totalling 305 km
(Annex 1.1). While these investments have acceptable rates of return,
their scheduling should take into consideration overall priorities. With
the road Improvement projects completed ia recent years or presently
underway, the country will have a basic network of national and
interregional roads. In firming-up future road sector expenditure programs
careful attention should therefore be given to making optimal use of the
existing network and working out the right balance between upgrading of
main roads and district and feeder roads and between road upgrading and
road maintenance. With the view of improving public expenditure
programming Government has prepared a draft overall expenditure program
(1986-1989) for the road sector by complementing Its road maintenance
program (Paras. 2.02-2.14) with a scaled down road investment program which
is formulated on the basis of economic criteria (primarily the economic
rate of return) and is financially feasible in terms of budgetary resources
likely to be available. Given the heavy involvement of other donors in the
sector, there would be a need to periodically review the overall program
and its external assistance to ensure that the priority maintenance and
improvement components receive appropriate attention. Every year in
conjunction with the preparation of the annual budget, Government will
update the scheduling of road improvement projects and its four year
forward expenditure program for the road sector on the basis of the same
economic and financial feasibility criteria. Moreover, Government will
afford IDA the opportunity to comment on the updated program and finalize
it taking into account IDA's comments. These updated programs would serve
as a basis for round table discussions or informal meetings wiLh other
donors in the sector to achieve better donor coordination.
1.08      During preparation of the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1250-RW
of June 9, 1982) it was recognized that transport planning needed to be
strengthened. As part of the Fifth Highway Project UNDP provided f- ..cing
for an expert to assist Governmeat in carrying out priority traasport
planning tasks and to establish a planning capabiliLy for the transport
sector. The proposed project will continue to support this position as it
was only filled in 1984 owing to recruitment delays. With the preparation
of the Sixth Highway Project a start was made with the formulation of
priorities for the highway sector as a whole and the preparation of a
comprehenaive program covering road construction, road improvement/
rehabilitation and road maintenance. The need is now for establishing



- 4 -
transport planning on a firm basis by giving it its proper role In the
annual review and updating of multi-year programs and for better
coordinaticn of the activities carried out by the various ministries
involved in transport. Government will make by June 30, 1986
organizational arrangements satisfactory to IDA to provide for the
strengthening of the transport planning function and the coordination of
the planning and policy formulation activities of the various ministries
involved in transport.
D. Intxinational TrangDort
1.09      Rwanda's exteraal economic position is precarious not only
because its major exports are subject to significant price fluctuations,
but also because the long distances to the ocean (over 1,700 km)
substantially increase the cost of imports and exports. The handicap on
account of distance is compounded by other factors such as the condition of
the infrastructures, the transit procedures in neighbouring countries, the
operating efficiency of transport companies and relatively small and
imbalanced export and import flows (exports 40,000 tons, imports 280,000
tons). Finally, in addition to directly measurable costs, Rwanda incurs
indirect costs on account of factors that are not reflected In rates or
tariffs such as high loss and damage rates of goods and interruptions in
transport flow.
1.10      Two main transport corridors to the Indian Ocean ports have
traditionally been used: the Northern Corridor (1,740 km) which comprises
the all-road and road/rail routes via Kampala and Nairobi to Mombasa, and
the Central Corridor (1,720 km) which consists of the road/lake/rail
connection via Bujumbura and Kigoma to Dar-es-Salaam. Because of recurrent
problems of delays in transit on the Central Corridor its role in Rwanda's
external trade has shrunk to less than 5%. International transport by air
achieved significance in the late 1970's when, owing to the difficulties
with surface transport, cargo flights were started between Kigali and
Mombasa. Air traffic increased sharply from about 2,500 tons per annum in
1974 to 38,000 tons in 1980 (exports and imports combined). However, as a
result of improvements in the surface routes shipments to and from Mombasa
were reduced and total air freight was down to 28,000 tons in 1983 of which
about 18,000 tons were to and from Mombasa.
1.11      The acute bottlenecks in the two corridors in the late seventies,
- mainly due to the unsettled situation in Uganda and the surge in Zambian
traffic sent via Dar-es-Salasm which compounded recurrent problems in
operating efficiency, - led to the most serious interruption in transport
ever experienced in tLe region. Concerted efforts were launched by the
landlocked and transit countries and other interested parties to alleviate
the international transport problems of the landlocked countries. These
and other recent developments were reviewed in a World Bank report whose
preliminary conclusions indicate that while the various initiatives
undertaken fell short of their expected results, good progress had been
made in a number of areas. With respect to each of the corridors,



- 5 -
international consultations and cooperation have becotne more structured.
The Northern Corridor countries in particular entered into a Transit
Transport Agreement which should soon become operative and reduce total
time in transit significantly through simplification of customs
procedures. Selective investments for rehabilitation and modernization of
Infrastructures and facilities have been made. Finally, partly as a result
of the measures already taken and partly because of the disappearance of
the exogeneous causes of the bottlenecks, direct transport costs decreased
or increased only moderately. Indirect costs in the two corridors also
evolved favorably in receat years.
1.12      The report underlined that there remains considerable scope for
further improvements in direct and indirect costs and that the priority
need is for measures and policies focussed on cost reductions in particular
in the areas of operations and transit procedures rather than for
investments. It also recommended that the data base and the analytical
capacity with regard to international transport matters be improved, inter
alia, in cooperation with the transport industry. The proposed project
provides financing for an international transport expert to strengthen
Government's capacity for analysis and policy formulation in international
transport.
E. Road. and Road Transport
(1) The Network
1.13      Rwanda has a classified road network totaling about 4,060 km of
which 627 km are paved; 274 km are being improved to paved standard. The!
remaining 3,160 km are mostly unengineered earth roads. The coverrage of
the network is nearly adequate. However, many of the earth roads are
characterized by frequent and narrow curves, steep grades and uneven
surfaces. The mountainous terrain, heavy rainfalls and poor soil
conditions result in high maintenance costs of gravel and earth roads.
Rwanda has concentrated its efforts on improving to paved standards the
major international road links between Kigali and neighboring Uganda,
Burundi and Tanzania and between its major regional centers; as a result
the paved road network will more than double from 1982 to 1987. The
network is now reaching a stage where it is no longer an impediment to the
country's economic and social development. The Government has also started
to pay more attention to improving the maintenance of the road network
through strengthening of its road maintenance operations; this effort has
resulted in a paved road network in good condition and an earth road
network in fair condition, passable year round, although rutting and
potholes are still common after the rainy season. In addition to the
classified network of 4,060 km there are some 5,974 km of roads and tracks
which are the respoasiblity of the communes. These roads receive sporadic
maintenance from the communes (of which there are 143) and occasional
improvement works by the Roads Branch with equipment-intensive work
methods. There is no condition inventory of communal roads and many roads
do not allow moto,rized traffic on all-season basis. The level of



- 6 -
accessibility on many communal roads appears less than adequate for the
economic and social activities ia the areas they serve.  The policies for
selective improvements on these roads will be examined under the project
(Para. 2.14 (b)).
(il) Road Use
1.14      Rwanda's vehicle fleet, estimated at 16,000 units In 1983 - of
which 40% are passenger cars (Annex 1.2) - remains small whea compared to
the road network or the population. However, it is estimated that about
25Z of the network carries 85X of total traffic and that paved roads and
roads under construction to paved standard which account for about 10X of
the network carry close to 60% of total traffic. The main roads radiating
from Kigali have traffic levels in excess of or on the order of 500
vehicles per day (vpd). In the outlying areas traffic levels are in the
50-150 vpd range. About 50% of all traffic on the road network is by light
commercial vehicles. Based on the traffic counts carried out by the Roads
Branch since 1970 at 33 counting stations, average annual traffic growth
from 1970 to 1983 is estimated at 11%; traffic growth hardly slowed down in
recent years (10.5% from 1979 to 1983). This rapid growth in traffic is
corroborated by available data on imports of petroleum products (10.4%
annual growth for premium and regular gasoline from 1976 to 1984)(Annex
1.3).
Uili) Road Transport Industry
1.15      Government policies have contributed to the rapid development of
the road transport industry. These policies included: the allocation of
sufficient foreign exchange for importation of commercial vehicles, lower
taxation of these vehicles and practically free entry in the industry. The
industry is largely composed of traders/truckers who engage mainly in
commercial activities, including transport for their own account, but also
act as public carriers. Most traders do not own more than two vehicles.
There are a few large organizations operating more than 10 vehicles. Goods
transport is not much regulated. Entry in the industry is subject to the
same conditions as setting up a business and transport routes are not
regulated.  Tariffs are set by Gov-rnment but their role is more that of a
reference tariff since they are not enforced. Actual transport rates are
considerably lower on paved roads than on earth/gravel roads, reflecting
the lower vehicle operating costs on these roads and increased competition
among truckers once roads have been improved. Passenger transport is
subject to a licence from the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
The safety of passengers is the principal concern of existing regulations
governing passenger transport. However, in many parts of the country,
where the requirements are not strictly enforced, passenger transport is
undertaken by traders who carrv both goods and passengers with their
pick-ups and trucks. ONATRACOM, a public passenger transport agency,
provides scheduled passenger transport services between Kigali and
provincial centers and within Kigali. Due to inadequate tariffs,
operational weaknesses, and poor finaincial control, the agency has not been
able to cover its capital replacement needs. It has benefitted from
bilateral grants for replacement of its fleet. Passenger transport by



- 7 -
private minibus has grown rapidly in recent years in Kigali and on the main
roads to tho polnt where it is able to satisfy most of the transport demand
on these routes. On the whole, existing arrangements for domestic
transport are adequate.  Since the demand for transport is  estly scattered
in small quantities over the country and Is highly seasonal, for the time
being, the continued use of traders/trtckers who normally have substantial
spare capa.lty is probably the most flaxible and cost-effective arrangement
for handling thet country's transport noeds. However, greater attention
should be given to traffic safety in particular of passongers.  Stcps are
now being taken In this area (Pars. 2.14 (a)).
1.16      For international transport, owing to the cumbersome
administrative and customs procedures governing transit traffic, importers
and exporters have traditionally relied on clearing and forwarding agents
to handle transit formalities and transport. Most agents contract out the
trucking activity to truckers or pools of truckers. On the northern route,
the truckiag industry is dominated by carriers from Kenya. The principal
Rwandese international carrier is STIR In which Government has a majorLty
shareholding. It has a fleet of about 90 tractor combiaations of which
about half are tank wagons. The company has experienced financial
difficulties mainly due to competition from lower cost Kenyan carriers and
received assistance from Government in the form of equity participation for
fleet renewal. Given the difficulties of ONATRACOM and STIR, it is
doubtful whether the aIms underlying their establishment are belng
achieved. Since the number of private Rwandese operators engaged in both
domestic passenger transport and in international transport is growing, the
role of ONATRACOM and STIR would need to be reassessed; in particular other
alternatives for achieving the goals which led Government to promote them
would have to be evaluated. This would be one of the tasks of the
transport planning unit to be assisted under the proposed project.
(iv) Road User Charges
1.17      Road uscrs coatribute to Government revenues through import
duties and taxes on vehicles, fuel, spare parts and lubricants,
registration and licencing fees, and a border toll on commercial vehicles
(Annex 1.4). Total revenues from road users amounted to FRW 1,247 million
in 1984, while total expenditures for routine and periodic road maintenance
and minor rehabilitation in the same year amounted to FRW 789 million or a
coverage ratio of 1.6:1. In previous years total road user revenues
exceeded total road maintenance expenditures - which are adequate for the
network to be maintained - by a similar ratio.
1.18      In taxing road users, however, Government's principal aims have
been revenue collection, balaact of payments protection and income
redistribution; transport sector objectives have not been prominent. So,
while total revenues from road users exceed total road wear and tear costs,
there are great disparities between different categories of road vehicles
in the rate of coverage of road costs by road user charges. In particular,
heavy vehicles do not cover their road costs. The transport planning unit
will carry out a review of road user charges and costs by vehicle category
and prepare proposals for adjusting taxation of road users as required to
ensure that each category of vehicles covers at least the wear and tear
cost it imposes on the road network.



- 8 -
1.19      The lower import duties on small to medium commercial vehicles
sre part of a policy aimod at fostering the development of the road
transport industry (Para. 1.15). Also, taxes on fuel products (about 20X)
remain low by international standards, mainly because of Government's
objective not to increase the prices of inputs used In transport given that
the CIF Rwanda border price of fuel products in already very high on
account of high international transport costs. In regard to fuel prices In
goneral, there is no sudsidization or cross-subsidization of fuel products
and price differentiation betweean gasoline and diesel fuel La not
significant (Annex 1.3). Retail prices cover the resource costs of the
products.
(v) Traffic Rieulations and Road Safety
1.20      Current vehicle weight and dimension regulations are outdated and
overloaded trucks have become a problem. The Government has prepared a new
traffic code which also covers vehicle weight and dimension limitations;
theme are in line with the design specifications of roads built in recent
years as well as the regulations in force in neighboring countries,
primarily Kenya and Uganda, the major transit countries. The legislation
has been submitted to legal review and is scheduled to become law by
December 1985. The laws governing road safety also would need to be
-rought up-to-date. Government, however, has already started tackling the
'- ''t aspects of road safety (Para. 2.14 (a)).
F. Other Modes
(1) Lake Transport
1.21      Lake Kivu allows commercial navigation between the towns of
Gysenyi, Kibuye and Cyangugu. The main transport flows consist of beer
from Gysenyi to Cyangugu and Kibuye with coffee being carried seasonally on
the return journey. Total volume of goods traffic was estimated at some
0, 000 tons in 1983. The lake fleet, owned by traders/operators, consists
of some 50 units (including passeager transport crafts and barges) with a
carrying capacity of 10-20 tons for the self propelled craft and 50 - 120
tons for barges. The fleet is old and badly maintained. The berthing
facilities are generally rudimentary and in poor condition but could be
renovated at relatively low costs. Since lake transport is the most
economical method of transportation between communities along the lake,
there will be scope for Its expansion as and when trade in agricultural and
consumer goods increases.
(ii) Air Transport
1.22      Rwanda has a modern airport near Kigali which was upgraded in
1981 to handle widebodied aircraft. The airport's storage and handling
facilities were also expanded and a new passenger terminal is nearing
completion. The older airport at Cyangugu can handle medium range aircraft
while four grass airstrips in the interior handle small aircraft. In view
of the small size of the country, air transport primarily serves Rwanda's



- 9 -
external transport needs. International passenger traffic amounts to some
22,000 arrivals and departures per year while domestic passenger traffic
(both scheduled and chartered) is of the same order. There is no domestic
goods trafflc. International goods traffic Is predominantly to Mombasa
(Annex 1.5).
1.23      Domf,stic scheduled flights are assured by Air Rwanda which
operates three small aircraft while chartered flights are avallable from a
few private companies. In 1979, to cope with the severe international
transportation bottlenecks, Air Rwanda acquired a Boeing 707 cargo aircraft
which initially flew to Europe and to Mombasa. Flights to Europe have
discontinued and utilization of the aircraft has decreased following the
improvement in the performance of the surface routes. Operation of the
aircraft is not profitable. Its main justification would consist in that
it provides diversification and some security In external transport.
Since, however, it is costly to operate and not particularly well adapted
to Rwanda's import and export traffic its role needs to be reassessed in
the context of Rwanda's external transport strategy (Para.1.12). This
would be one of the tasks of the transport planning function at the
Ministry of Transport and Communications.
G. Agisway Administration
(1) Organizational Structure, Staffinx. Training
1.24      The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) through its Roads Branch (RB)
has responsibility for the design, construction and maintenance of a
network of 4,060 km of roads. RB is divided into two departments: the
Engineering and Control Department (ECD) which is in charge of new
construction by contractor and the Works Department (WD) which is in charge
of road/bridge maintenance and construction by force account and of the
mechanical workshops (Chart 1).
1.25      The organizational structure, which was updated in early 1984, is
adequate to administer the road subsector. Staffing, however, in
particular of higher level positions still poses problems. In 1984 RB
employed nineteen engineers. To make up for the shortage of qualtfied
Rwandese higher level staff the Roads Branch has the assistance of nineteen
expatriates (this number which is down from twenty four in 1981 will
decline further during the project period) financed by bilateral and
multilateral sources. They are employed as advisors, training instructors
or as part of project teams. Because of the lack of local counterparts,
coordination of their activities has proven difficult. For middle and
lower level staff, the shortages are less severe and certain functional
categories are definitely overmanned. Moreover, qualifications are uneven
as the education system does not produce enough skilled workers and
technicians and Government often hires employees without any vocational
training.
1.26      The nationwide shortage of engineers and technicians is the
priucipal cause for the lack of qualified staff. Two other factors,
however, have contributed to this situation: low salaries in Government
service and the lack of serious manpower planning in the past. The latter



- 10 -
is apparent from the fact that (as Is the case in most ministries) the
personnel and training functions have not been given appropriate weight in
the organizational structure. RB's staff numbered some 5,800 at the end of
1984. Of these 75 were permanent, 945 under contract and the remaining
were hired ad hoc and paid on a daily basis. Additional staff were
employed and paid under projects financed by the Federal Rebublic of
Germany (FRG).
1.27      The first extensive training program was started in 1978 with
financing from FRG, UNDP and IDA. It provided for the establishment of a
tzrAinlug center and training In basic skills and refresher training. Over
the period 1979-1982, 124 staff were trained and 301 received refresher
courses. The training Is generally of good quality; losses after training
have affected mainly truck drivers. In order to help the RB cope with Its
expandL'g responsibilities, under the 1986-1989 program a start will be
made with periodic maintenance by contract so as not to stretch its still
limited capabilities. Moreover a training program will be implemented
covering all staff levels and aimed at improving qualifications In crltical
areas (Para. 2.11).
(U)  !u!ncl&
1.28      Rwanda's fiscal year coincides with the calendar year.  Routine
and periodic maintenance are financed through the recurrent budget. Budget
proposals are prepared by the RB during the third quarter and submitted to
the Ministry of Finance during the fourth quarter. New road and bridge
construction and some periodic maintenance of paved roads is financed under
the Investment budget. Budget proposals are submitted first to the
Ministry of Planning which decides jointly with the Ministry of Finance on
the budget to be presented to the Cabinet for final approval. Budgets are
normally approved by the Cabinet and Parliament in January.
1.29      Total annual expenditures for highway maintenance averaged some
VRW 650 million in recent years (Annex 1.6) or about US$1700/km which Is
adequate. Of these about 55% was funded through Goverment' s recurrent
budget and the remainder by multilateral and bilateral donors.
Government's allocations to highway maintenance have been steadily
increasing in recent years from FRW 178.2 million in 1978 to FRW 448.0
million in 1984, or about 5% in real terms. In order to cope with the
growing maintenance needs, budgetary allocations for highway maintenance
should continue to increase in real terms. To this effect Government is
considering, inter alia, the introduction of a road fund to which
additional taxation on road users would be channeled. Government will
prepare by June 30, 1986, for an exchange of views with IDA, proposals for
gradually financing from its own resources a larger share of recurrent road
maintenance expenditures. Total annual expenditures for highway
construction have exceeded FRW 3 billion in recent years (Annex 1.6).
About three quarters were externally funded. These expeaditures, including
those by the Government under the investment budget, have tended to
fluctuate widely over the years as a result of the overlapping of major
construction works. This underlines the need for careful scheduling of
individual projects (Para. 1.07).



- 11 -
(ili)  Road Maiutenance and Equlimeut Nan eut
1.30      WD is responsible for planning and executing the naintendrcle on
a network of 4,060 km of roads, while the communes are responsible for Lhe
maintenance of 5,974 km of uncldassified roads and tracks. Since the latoer
serve an important function In the transport of agricultural produce, and
since the communues lack the funds, equipment and skilled staff to maintain
thea,  WD occasionally undertakes emergency repair works on these roads.  A
pilot scheme for improvement and maintenance of communal roads would be
started under the program (para. 2.14 (b)). Road maintenance has improved
over the past years. This is due to the strengthening of road maintenaace
operations, increased budgetary allocations and the assistance providd by
IDA and other foreign donors, principally Germany. An adequate
administrative structure has been set up and procedures for maintaining the
country's major network and improving the skills of local staff are in
place. Periodic road maintenance is carried out by six mechanized
brigades; routine maintenance operations are performed by 200
labor-intensive road gangs ("cantonniers"), composed of a foreman and 12
roadmen with responsibility for about 15 km of roads. This organization
has succeeded in adequately maintaining the road network and keeping st
passable year round. However, the mechanized road maintenance brlgadeus do
not yet perform to satisfaction, due to limited experienced personnel.
Under the proposed project this problem will be tackled as follows: (i) the
brigades will be reorganized and reduced to two spot-improvement and
regravelling brigades for earth/gravel roads, two patching and resealing
brigades for routine maintenance of paved roads, and one resurfacing
brigade; (ii) some 20% of maintenance works will be carried out by
contractors; and (iii) emphasis will be put on training the necessary
personnel.
1.31      Equipment maintenance and repair is the responsibility of WD's
Workshop and Warehouse Section (WW). WW operates a central mechanical
workshop and a spare parts store in Xigali and two regional workshops in
Ruhengeri, and Kibuye.  Major repairs are carried out at the central
workshop and routine maintenance in the regional workshops. These
operations are managed by technical assistance provided under IDA and FRG
projects and staffed by local mechanics and helpers. As a result WV is now
operating satisfactorily. However, it will continue to depend on the
assistance of the expatriate mechanics to carry out its operations
satisfactorily for several years given the shortage of experienced local
mechanics. The proposed project would provide the necessary technical
assistance, equipment, materials and supplies for continued improvement of
WW operations and will put emphasis on the training of necessary personnel.
(iv) EDRineering and ConBtruction
1.32      The Engineering and Control Department (ECD) is responsible for
engineering and supervising construction works. Due to limited number of
experienced staff, ECD is supported by technical assistance staff from
FRG. ECD can handle only minor engineering design and work supervision
tasks. Engineering studies and supervision of major projects are entrusted



- 12 -
to forelgn consultants and occaalonally the Natlonal Study Bureau (BUNE?)
which Is gainlng expertise in this field. BCD qluo operates the
Governement Soils Laboratory "Laboratolro dds Travaux Publics" (LTP) which
carries out soil test. for dasign work. As part of the 1986-89 program
LTP's capacity will be expanded to cover certain study and supervision
tasks of road malntenance operations and research in the utilization of
local materials for road construction and maintenance. Constructlon
projects are executed by contractors, following suitable pre-qualificatlon
and tendering procedures. Contracts are generally let on a unit-price
basis following international competitive bidding. Rwanda has no domestic
road constructlon flrms due to lack of skllled and experienced personnel,
lack of financial resources and a small market for construction works. A
few domestic firms work only in mall building constructlon projects and as
minor subcontractors to foreign firms for major bulldlng constructlon.
H. Sxperience wlth Past Lendig in the Sector
1.33      Bank Group lending to the road subsector has amounted to US$71.4
million for five projects. The objectives of these projects have been to
assist this landlocked country in: ti) improving major International road
connections with its neighbors and between Its regional centers and the
capital and (ii) Improving its institutional capabilities to carry out
efficient road maintenance operations.
1.34      The First Highway Project (Credit 196-RW, US$18.8 million, 1970),
the Third Highway Project (Credit 475-RW, US$6.3 million, 1974) and the
Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1250-RW, US$25.9 million, 1982) primarily
financed road construction. They contributed respectively to improvement
to paved standards of the Kigali-Gatuna road (80 km), the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi
road (60 km), and the Butare-Kitabi road (53.5 km).  Excessive delays and
cost overruns occured during the improvement works on the Kigali-Gatuna and
Ruhengeri-Gisenyi roads. These difficulties were due to inadequate
engineering and construction techniques, and instability in Uganda causing
interruption In the supply of equipment and materials. The PPARs, however,
concluded that the improvement works on both roads were still justified, as
the increases in construction costs were offset by higher than anticipated
traffic growth and greater savings in vehicle operating costs. The
Kigali-Gatuna road has deteriorated to the point where reconstruction is
necessary (pars. 2.07); some maintenance works to keep it passable are
being carried out under the Fifth Highway Project, and reconstruction works
would be carried out under the proposed project. In view of the
difficulties encountered in the first two road construction projects, the
improvement of the Butare-Kitabi road (Fifth Highway Project) was designed
with particular attention given to soils problems, alignment and drainage;
contractors were prequalified carefully and the supervision team was
provided with an expert in soils engineering. Construction of this road is
progressing satisfactorily and is well advanced. The revised cost
estimates allow reallocation of US $ 5.0 million to the reconstruction of
the Kigali-Gatuna road under the proposed project.
1.35      The Second Highway Project (Credit 299-RW, US$5.4 million, 1971)
and the Fourth Highway Project (Credit 769-RW, US$15.0 million, 1977)
contributed to improvement of road maintenance operations and institution



- 13 -
building. These projects provided equipment. materials, supplies,
rehabilitation of workshops, technical assistance and training of
personnel. Both projects were designed to carry out periodic and routine
road maintenance operations on the network of paved and earth roads. At
the closing of the Second Highway Credit, on December 31, 1978, only about
50% of targeted works were completed sucessfully. The PPAR concluded that
the targets set at appraisal were overly optimistic. For this reason, the
Fourth Hlghway Project was designed taking into consideration the
limitatlons of the RB. Execution of this project was better and at Its
closing date on June 30, 1984, 90% of the works programmed were
successfully completed. Both projects succeeded in setting up a basic road
maintenance administration. Moreover, the organization of labor-intenslve
teams of "cantonnage" is playing a key role In keeping the network passable
all year round. However, the training of personnel has not had the
expected Impact due to lack of qualified candidates and losses of trained
staff to the private sector. The result in that technical assistance Is
still needed in the medium term to carry out effectlve road maintenance
operations. The proposed project will thus put emphasis on the training of
personnel.



- 14 -
II.  UK FROCRhM AMD TEE PROJrCT
A.   Obijctives
2.01      Rwanda's road network has reached a stage where it is no longer
a serious impediment to the country's economic and social development. The
Government intends to concentrate its efforts on the maintenance of this
natlional asset and has prepared a four year (1986-1989) program for the
sector to attaln its objectives. Likewise, the objectives of the Bank
Group's involvement in the highway sector are: ti) to improve public
expenditure policies in the highway sector by assisting Government to
develop appropriate forward road maintenance and construction programs;
(ii) strengthening donor coordination In the sector to ensure that high
priority items receive appropriate external assistance; (iii) improving
road maintenance and construction planning; (iv) strengthening the capacity
of the Roads Branch (RB) for administering the country's road network; and
(v) Improving road maintenance operations and thereby reducing road
transport system costs. To achieve these objectives, the project would
help the Government in financing its road maintenance and reconstruction
program and implementing a comprehensive training program for the highway
sector. Several other donors are also supporting the program.
B.  The Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Program 1986-1989
2.02      The program prepared by the Roads Branch (RB) and finalized
during appraisal is technically and financially feasible and economically
justified; it covers the essential needs on the network of 4,060 km during
the four-year period (1986-1989) and consists of the following:
(i) Maintenance Works by Force Account
(it) Maintenance Works by Contract;
(iii) Reconstruction of the Xigali-Gatuna road;
(iv) Improvement of the Soils Laboratory;
(v) Manpower Development;
(vi) Consulting Services;
(vii) Complementary Sector Actions
(1) Maintenance Works by Force Account
2.03      This component includes the following elements:
(a) Labor-intensive routine maintenance on the network of 3,159 km of
earth/gravel roads. The works which consist of filling potholes
and cleaning shoulders, ditches and drainage structures are a
continuation of activities successfully performed in the past.
They will be carried out by 200 gangs of 12 'cantonniers-
(lengtbmen). Each gang is supervised by a headman and is
responsible for about 15 km of road on a year-round basis. The
labor-intensive operations will be assisted inter alia through
(i) the replacement of worn out hand tools; (ii)



- 15 -
improvements in logistic support consisting of identification and
haulage by tractor/trailor combinations of selective material;
and (iII) training of supervisors.
(b) Maintenance of paved roads. Patching and resealing operations on
the paved road network (629 km growing to 901 kn, Annex 2.1) will
be carried out by two brigades each capable of covering about 400
km of paved roads a year. A third brigade will carry out spot
repair works and selective resurfacing on 130 km of roads built
seven to eight years ago (Annex 2.1)(the latter brigade jointly
financed by the FRG and the Government will also be engaged part
of its time on resurfacing of urban roads in Kigali).
(c) Periodic maintenance of 500 km earth/gravel roads. These works
consist of regravelling and selective improvement of the road and
drainage structures. Most of the roads included in the program
(Annex 2.2) were already improved under previous projects and
carry traffic levels in the 100-250 vpd range. The works will be
carried out by two brigades each covering 60 km of ropd every
year. These brigades will also be responsible for grading some
1,000 km of road each year.
(d) Maintenance of bridges. Tne bridges which are the responsibility
of RB will be maintained and repaired by five maintenance teams,
two of which will be responsible for routine maintenance and
three for repair works. Financial assistance for these teams
will be available from the FRG.
(e) Workshops. RB's equipment to carry out the above programs will
be maintained in the workshops of Kigali, Ruhengeri and Kibuye
built and equipped with financial assistance from IDA and the
FRG.
2.04      Previous projects by IDA, the FRG and Japan have financed
equipment and tools to assist RB in its maintenance operations. Part of
this equipment and these tools will become life expired during the program
period and will be replaced (Annex 2.3). In the past, food rations have
been provided to the road maintenance personnel by the World Food Program
(WFP) to complement salaries and to reduce the gap in remuneration with the
private sector. WFP will continue to provide this aid during the execution
of the program. The spare parts, fuel and material requirements to carry
out the program described above have been estimated on the basis of the
output targets and expected consumption of these supplies.
(ii)  Nainteuancem  ebi1itation Works by Contract
2.05      With the double objective of allowing RB to cope with an
expanding maintenance program without undue burden on its capacity and of
making a start with private sector involvement in maintenance operations,
works on 40 km of paved road and 218 km of earth/gravel road will be
carried out by contract.  The Cyangugu-Bugarama road (40 km) was built to
paved standard more than 20 years ago but carried little traffic during the



- 16 -
eariy years. Current traffic is on the order of 250 vpd. The road
requires some spot repairs, and a 500 m section which is badly deteriorated
would be rehabilitated by reconstructing the base course with 15-20 cm of
selected material. The drainage would also be repaired. The whole road
would receive a double surface treatment wearing course. Preliminary
designs have been prepared by the ECD. The final designs and bidding
documents to be preparead by consultants are expected to be completed by
mid-1986.
2.06      Selective improvement and regravelling works will be carried out
on some 218 km of earth/gravel roads: the Rubengera-Ntendezi road (131 km)
bordering lake Kivu and the 87 km 'Circuit des Lace" road in the North West
circling lakes Bulera and Ruhondo. These roads carry about 140 vpd and 90
vpd respectively. In the rainy season traffic is impeded due, inter alia,
to lack of adequate drainage, steep grades and sharp curves. The works
would include: (i) drainage improvements; (ii) limited realignments and
-rade Improvements; and (iii) selective regravelling. Preliminary designs
have been prepared by the ECD. Final designs and bidding documents to be
preoared by consultants are expected to be completed by mid-1986.
(11i)  Reconstruction of Kigali-Catuna Road (80 km!)
2.07      The Kigali-Gatuna road (80 km) was built with financing from the
First Highway Project during 1972-1977. The road has failed prematurely as
a result of the combination of various adverse factors which have tended to
compound upon each other: a higher volume of heavy traffic than projected
at the design stage, inadequate drainage in view of the geology of the
tsLrain, weaknesses in execution and supervision of the works and
overloading of heavy vehicles. The road carries substantial local traffic
in particular on the first 50 km. It also derives significance in the
context of Rwanda's landlocked position and the country's heavy dependence
for external access on road transport via the "Northern Corridor through
Uganda and Kenya to the Indian Ocean.
2.9-8     Consultants Louis Berger Inc. (USA) have carried out the design
fnz the reconstruction works. These would consist of reconstructing: (i)
the drainage system (ii) the base course and shoulders with 10-20 cm of
crushed rock; and (iii) a triple surface treatment or a 5 cm asphalt
concrete wearing course. The road design is based on a maximum single axle
load of 13 tons for an economic life of 20 years. Resurfacing would be
required after 8 years.
2.09      The road crosses difficult terrain and marshy areas.  When the
road was constructed the solution of a floating embankment was adopted for
three marshes. The floating embankment on the marsh at km 68 which has
served for about 8 years has had serious problems of subsidence. The
embankment is settling as fast as it is being reconstructed and
stabilization is uncertain. Two alternatives for improving the crossing of
this marsh are being investigated by the consultants responsible for the
design of the road reconstruction works. A first solution would consist of
stabilizing the embankment at the existing crossing while the second would
involve the construction of a new embankment or a viaduct at a location 900
km to the west of the existing crossing, combined with a 2 km by-pass. The



- 17 -
necessary realignment and soils studies for these solutions are underway;
they are expected to be substantially completed by December 1985. The
European Development Fund would assume financing of the works which w.'ull
be carried out (para. 2.13).
(iv)   Improvmenut of Soils Laboratory
2.10      During the 1986-1989 program period the soils laboratory would
expand its activities to include: (i) assisting the Engineering and Control
Department in its responsiblity for monitoring the quality of road
maintenance (Pars. 2.19) and, (ii) carry out investigations for the
identification and utilization of local materials for road construction and
maintenance. Accordingly, the soils laboratory will be strengthened
through technical assistance and improvement of existing facilities and the
provision of necessary equipment, materials, supplies and personnel.
(v) Maapower Development
2.11      The traIning program for the period 1986-1989 covers all levels
of staff and has been designed in content and scope to make available the
qualified staff in adequate numbers for the execution of RB's force account
workprogram. The target is for training approximately: (i) 50 assistant
mechanics and 45 mechanics; (ii) 13 engine operators and 70 truck and light
vehicle drivers; (iii) 10 worksite managers and 15 supervisors; (iv) 50
secretaries, accountants, and storemen; (v) 60 apprentice mechanics; (vi)
13 higher level technical, administrative, and financial staff; (vii) 2
vocational training managers (Annex 2.4). With respect to implementation
of this program, the following aspects have been taken into account: (i)
cost effectiveness of the training, which will be aimed principally at very
small groups of trainees of each speciality; (ii) use of available training
facilities at existing centers; (iii) coordination of human resources from
the different technical assistance programs. In particular, the practical
training of mechanics, electricians and workshop chiefs at the Central
Workshop in Kigali would be provided, as in the past, by bilateral aid from
the Federal Republic of Germany; and (iv) the training of Rwandese
instructors who will progressively take over from the expatriates.
2.12      In addition to the training program itself, a number of
accompanying measures will be taken to firmly establish manpower
development within the RB. These include the strengthening of RB's
Personnel Bureau, the setting up of a Training Unit and of a Training
Coordination Committee to provide a functional link between training and
personnel management on the one hand and training and the technical
services on the other.
(vi)   Consulting Servlces
2.13      The following consultant services will be required to help
implement the program.



- 18 -
(a) DealEn and Supervision of Worka
In view of the staff constraints in ECD, consultants will super-
vise the reconstruction works on the Kigali-Catuna road (80 km).
These works will be cofinanced by three donors (EDF, BADEA and
IDA), will be supervised by two different consultants and are
likely to be executed by more than one contractor. Consequently,
In order to ensure appropriate coordination between the various
parties involved, a road construction expert/coordinator will be
provided to assist the Ministry in overall management of the re-
construction works. Consultants will also assist RB in preparing
specifications and bidding documents for the repair and -esurfac-
ing of the Cyangugu-Bugarama road (40 km) and the Improvement/
regravelling of the Rubengera-Ntendezi road (131 km) and the
'Circuit des Lacse road (87 km). Moreover, ECD will be assisted
by a cost accountant and the soils laboratory (para. 2.13(b) to
supervise road maintenance works by force account.
(b) Technical Assistance
As RB has limited qualified personnel it will be assisted by
experts to : (i) help carry out the force account maintenance
program; (ii) strengthen the soils laboratory; and (iII) imple-
ment the training program. The technical assistance for the
force account works would comprise a senior engineer, team leader
(4 man-years); three road maintenance experts (12 man-years); a
cost accountant (4 man-years); and a stores specialist (3
man-years). The two elements of the program financed by the FRG
- selective resurfacing on 130 km of paved roads and bridge
maintenance - would include separate arrangements for assistance
with implementation.    For equipment maintenance there would be
four mechanical experts including a workshop manager (4 man-years
each); these would be provided by the FRG and would be engaged
partly on operational duties and partly on training. One expert
- to be provided by France - is foreseen to help strengthen the
laboratory. To help implement the training program an instructor
(who would also help coordinate the training program) is foreseen
for 4 man-years, to be assisted by training specialists for a
total of 32 man-months. The TOR for the technical assistance
have been agreed at negotiations (Annex 2.5).
(vii)   Coplementary Sector Actions
2.14      In addition to the road works the following transport sector
measures are programmed.
(a)   Traffic Safety
To reduce the cost to the country of traffic accidents, the
Government in cooperation with the National Insurance Company is
preparing a traffic safety scheme covering both driver training
and vehicle inspection. The noteworthy feature of the proposed
scheme is that once established, the facilities would come under



- 19 -
private sector management (through part ownership by the
insurance company) and would be largely self-sufficent. The
capital investment to establish the facilities is estimated at
US$0.5 million.
(b)  Improvement and Maintenance of Comunal load.
Accessibility on the 5,974 km of roads which are the
responsibility of the communes is poor and relatively modest
Improvements using low-cost techniques could possibly have
signlficant impact on agricultural and social activity. The
program therefore includes a study aimed at identifying typical
deficiencies hampering accessibility and quantifying the
magnitude of justified improvements and the level of maintenance
that should be aimed at. Furthermore, the study would make
recommendations on technical, institutional and financial
arrangements for selective improvement and maintenance of
communal roads taking into consideration local resource
availability. Finally, the study would define a workprogram and
accompanying implementation arrangements for a pilot scheme in a
few communes. A total of 10 man-months would be needed to carry
out the study. Thereafter, an additional 10 man-months would be
required to assist with implementation of the pilot scheme. TOR
for the assignment (Annex 2.6) have been agreed with Government
at negotiations.
(c) Transport P1Dlai
The program includes consultant services to help strengthen
Government's planning capability. The focus would be on two key
areas: Ui) the preparation and annual updating of balanced
expenditure programs in the highway sector; and (ii) the
formulation of measures and policies to reduce the cost of
iaternational transport. A total of five man-years would be
provided. TOR for the consultant services (Annex 2.7) have been
agreed with Government at negotiations.
C. Costs of the Program
2.15      The total cost of the program, net of taxes and duties but
including contingencies, is estimated at US$81.0 million equivalent with a
local cost component of US$18.1 million equivalent (22X) and foreign costs
of US$62.9 million (78Z). Taxes are estimated at US$1.4 million (taxes on
locally flaanced supplies for force account works). Base costs are in
mid-1985 prices; physical contingencies of 10 have been added to the cost
of civil works. Price contingencies are based on recent estimates of
international inflation rates as follows: 5% in 1985, 7.52 in 1986 and 8%
in 1987 to 1989. For local costs price contingencies are estimated at
19%. Detailed program costs are shown in Table 2.1.



-3o-
9923211mm            US 18122..M          fima  mi
301 *AEa _aL X                           dT 
L  IhM by Vm A
_lt                                 33.      47%8      493.01    0tis      4.57     42          97
11. mWia, mu                       M0       LAW7      161i.7     2.13    13.70      15.17        7
ftumra1 - blml1                   741.3        -       741.3     7.0       -        74          -
-    _M    L     d In YM  34 j     .II        211.4     OSi2 LA            2.1        i
la1                       1035.7   21.3    KI.0           9.0     19.87    2.73         62
*Wm1 LUI  (219 0.                  43.2      23.       2.1       043       2.L3     LU R         5
_wtmdau (40 1£                     13.7       1I2     -1         &.M1    .,17    -.a            to
Umal                        5.L9     373.7     430.       0.50     3.50      4.12       a
UL  SAIl 1owt
Fct1 _ A 1aapi                      4.2       33.7     3A9       0.0       0.5      0.38        90
Tmhd.1142                                     37.811    42-      OA_       0._0     G           t0
D&ftw                        L4       73.5      31.9      0.A      0.70     0.79        s0
N.  Tdu
-:N   5                             1.1       79U       10.9     0.01      0.7#     0.77        N
T1 _d                               14.7     13L.      3302       CA       1.2        I.      a
-21  -  4J.1        .1       -       0.41      0.1       10
NW Mm                              10 -                 Ms       010       _        0.0       -_
&fow                        263      23L.      217        0.23     240      2.71        91
*t.   tilltti  0uu
DAI A WdI& IWd        tm ( )         5.3      4         30A       00       MAY7    0.52         g0
u1c   _        roaim1 313                    USA       312.9     0.3D      2.69     2.3         10
Ikeda1                      5.8      337       367.3      OJ.      3.13     D30         110
VL   si            b  D1m
Tnafftc bbty                         .2       47.3      31.5     00        0.45     0.49        92
*-wAd  =0l                          2.1       Z2.       21.2    0an1       0.21     0.23        93
1..  t 1' q G4 *bum                 4.2       41        07.3    O0.      ..LL       043        91
-.181                 10.3      312.3     123.0     0.10     1.07      W.7        91
VIL    0        & Im  Ain  tlm
o                                 216.         - WL 6      2      .31      -       Ls           -
lmd Ap*dmt                          *.2         -        4.2     o.0       -        OA           -
R&Atagl              2068         -       240.      L 2.35 2.39                    -
9A1 1-VIZ           1423.4    323.1    41&.       33.35    3011      4.6         0
a.   ct1m  I                       01.0     27.2      31162     0.39      2.L6     3           v7
b. 121i It                       1NA      1239L0    1428        L7      II       13.56        87
C. Sm f                            9.3        L                 OA 6      441      5.07        v7
d. sIIwAlim                        11.3     100.0     113       0.11      09       3.0
1lta1  vII          306.6    20.3    2399          2.92    198       22.76       87
ThCal g                          1710.0    33473 3   70004    10.47    3036    67.12           75
(m  u 9 VII)                   36.6    2W3.7      213       033       2.30     2.9         R7
Rim   _1Am                       238.8    10UJ.7    1333.3      2.75     9.95    12.70         79
Thb1  p      ot               2035.4    660LB    366.2    19.37    6L.          2LSI        76
1~ 4 I      z                   s130.1    _         131       I3.    _ -        3.43
meal OM   -cdr
m   1d maim           103    9603           1014.1    I14    6L9        91.01       78
Om Mc 31 liiin cut ort na t _f comlaWt o ' dt
AN $A t.m po  O          m2d g1  em ._,d    M           f      ta   i S*1pt  d Wp n   d tw zin
inAtract~m  oKo.  T~ =uld be.6.. h          ~ m Iomly  ULwa   suppitm.



- 21 -
2.16      Program cost estimates are based on the following:
(l) Works by Force Account: quantitiee of equipment, spare parts,
materials, supplies and personnel have been estlsmted by the con-
sultants who assisted Government In preparlng the program; unit
prices used in the estimates are based on recent bld priceos and
quotations In Rwanda.
(li) Works by Contract: based on engIneerlng studies; the average cost
estimate in US$12,900/km for selective regravelling/improvement
works and US$32,500/kI  for resurfacing.  Design and supervislon
would muount to about 12% of the civil works costs.
(iiI) Reconstruction of Kigali-Gatuna Road: based on engineering
studies, unit costs and quantities developed by consultants,
taking into consideration current prices of materials, labor and
equipment, as well as a survey of unit prices in respect of other
similar works in the country; the average cost of reconstruction
with a 5 cm asphalt concrete wearing course (excluding taxes) is
estimated at US$276,600/km not Including the cost of new works to
cross the marsh in Section III of the road.
(iv) Equlmaet for the laboratory and for training: based on consul-
tants' estimates which reflect recent bid prices and quotations
In Rwanda.
(v)  Consultant Services: the average man-month cost is estimated at
US$8,300 which Includes about US$6,300 for salaries, firms's
overheads (home office expenses, expatriate allowances, social
costs, etc.) and profit, and about US$2,000 for reimbursable ez-
penses (international travel, co=munications, subsistance and
other miscellaneous items). These costs are in line with those
for sliilar and ongoing services In Rwanda.
(vi) Fellowship: costs of fellowships for overseas training of higher
level staff are estimated at about US$5,000 ner month, including
travel, lodging, subsistance, tuition and fees.
D. lnancIimC of the P3 I9EM
2.17      The total cost of the maintenance components and sector actions
of the program amounts to US$52.46 million (including taxes and duties)
(Annex 2.8). In view of the country's foreign exchange constraints,
external sources will help finance the foreign costs of the maintenance
program by force account (equIpment, fuel, spare parts, materials). For
equipment, external financing will be 100Z, while for supplies it will be
about 60X.  Financing would be provided by FRG for paved road resurfacing,
bridge maintenance and training (US$5.2 million); by France for the soils
laboratory (US$0.4 million); by Denmark for traffic safety (US$0.5
.illion)i/; and by UNDP for training (US$1.0 million)2/. Kuwait Fund
1/ Tentative.
2/ It is expected that IDA will act as Executing Agency for this
coEponent.



- 22 -
would help finance the maintenance/rehabilitation works by contractor
(US$5.4 million). Government's contribution would be US$19.2 million under
the recurreat budget and US$0.9 million under the development budget. The
Bank Group's contribution to the maintenance components and sector actions
of the program would be US$17.8 million.
2.18      The total cost of reconstruction of the Kigali-Gatuna road
(excluding the cost of any new works to cross the marsh in the third
section but including contingencies and supervision) is estimated at
US$30.0 million. The EEC has agreed to finance the third section of this
road (km 51 - km 80) estimated to cost US$7.0 million excluding the cost of
any works for the marsh. The first and second sections estimated to cost
US$23.0 million would be cofinanced by BADEA (US$7.6 million), the Bank
Group (US$5.0 million provided for under the Fifth Highway Project and
US$8.2 million under the Sixth Highway Project) and Government (US$2.2
million under the development budget).
E.  Annual Progrm iig and Monitoring
2.19      Every year, concurrently with the preparation of the annual
budget RB will prepare a detailed road maintenance work program for the
following year, taking into consideration the overall maintenance targets
set for the program period and likely budgetary allocations. This program
will describe for each brigade the type of activities to be carried out by
road section or part of the network, indicate the estimated output of the
brigades by major activity and the corresponding inputs required in terms
of personnel and equipment, equipment utilization, fuel and lubricants,
materials and spare parts. To establish the workprogramming on a sound
basis, RB will introduce an appropriate permanent road condition inventory
system. The workprogram for 1986 and the proposals for the road condition
inventory system are satisfactory and have been agreed upon. Subsequent
annual workprograms will be furnished to the Association and other donors
for their comments by October 31 of each year and will be finalized upon
determination of the final budget taking into consideration comments
received.
2.20      Progress of implementation will be reported upon by WD on the
basis of the same indlcators as used in the preparation of the
workprogram. The WD will prepare a quarterly progress report showing
targets and achievements by major activity and explaining significant
discrepancies. An annual implementation report will consolidate this
information and provide details on inputs used in the execution of the
program, prodt.ctivity developments and unit costs of the various
activities. The productivity and cost analyses would, inter alia, provide
the basis for: (i) the development of a scheme for financing force account
activities according to agreed output standards; (ii) the formulation of an
incentive scheme for RB's staff; and (il) revlews of and adjustments in
the equipment-labor mix of RB's force account activities. The quarterly
report will be submitted one month after the end of the period and the
annual report two months after the end of the year. The ECD will be



- 23 -
responsible for monitoring the quantity and quality of the works carried
out by WD and by contractors and will be assisted in this task by the soils
laboratory. It would outline its findings and recommendations in a note to
be issued jointly with the annual implementation report.
F. Camvouats financed by the ProJect
2.21      The proposed project would comprise the following elements of the
overall program:1/ (i) the routine maintenance of earth and paved roads
and the regravelling of earth roads as part of the maintenance program by
force account - estimated to cost US$30.1 million; (ii) part of the
training program under a cost sharing arrangement with UNDP: US$1.5
million; (iii) consultant services for implementation of (i) above and for
transport planning and the communal roads scheme: US$3.6 million; (iv) the
soils laboratory component: US$0.9 million; and (v) reconstruction of the
Kigali-Gatuna road (first and second sections - 50 km):  US$23.0 million
including construction supervision. The total cost of the project amounts
to US$59.1 million (58.1 million excluding taxes and duties). The foreign
cost component is US$45.1 million (76%); local costs are US$14.0 million
(24%). Cost details are given in Table 2.2; the financing plan is shown in
Annex 2.8.
1/ All cost estimates include contingencies.



Tobl 
pusasi  ant Edsouh
~M  iiI                       M  m1 111-.        Pifanl 
Lam     O          Ti 1 1.10 L1 Saul            Talmo *    d.T * -III
1. Wwk IV        _* Am
E0IP,t                             141.7    3UJ       3141.     1.14     S.43     L.1        a
pole  uIabIs, Per"                13.7    13111.4    §4o          7    11.6s     N na        ml
promm-belIuraa                     1.        -        111.3     a.                G M
mmat.   l bil            e      147JD  1,47. Ia     0.1      1.40     1.11       7
71.2    TM-3       1. 2       6.6a7    016.1    3.73       U
hael ltIn .4 EiopImu               4.2       M.?       3.A    0GM        3.311    0J13       a
Tasbiast Assisancew                 4.2      51.0      41.6     0.06     6.311    0AD        3
6.4       71.81   3_I-       0.a3     6.7      0.;71      3
li1.  Imlalg
Cplp.t                           -         11.       11.6       -       .11     0.11       M
T11inimi1 Igbrlr_                 7.4       0.1       76.4     0.07     6.60     06         a
alIwaNpa                                    43.1      6.1        -       41      6.4O      in
1W Ohsa                           133                 33        O1       -        .10       -
Il  117.7     13.       0.1?       1.12   1.3M       6
IV.   SaamtruaIa of Kiueli bat   Rod
eatI0 S                           1/.0    217.2     36J       a17       L.6      3A        a7
betu 11                           166.N   13.0    id"          1.7e    11.3    13E         a
33.5   1316.2    A t176      2.13    14.43    NE          697
V.   IuItuu sals
TaaSm1*5 Asel5g_     SIEa mI      26.      21`7.3     1.3      0.D      2.07    X2.         M
CmIrtI. Ouawvll. (Itu In            .       W.A        347.2   .3       6.73     0a         3
C011vvl Inds                       2.1      32.1      21.2     0.33     L21      6.3        M
1aapst 1P0a'_. a 3144te5           4.2      6.1       4        0.04     0.41     OA         el
3.3     31.3      430.2     0        I234-6   TA-        U
Tab  him Cse"                   t13.    3164.6       MA       11.4    31.11    c.           73
t hy ". .: tltp  '*a  ' - I_m 1t1        n-4    tw    1              GM                 1.74      47
Pr a Csoleaamse                         31       71.9 7 L    36.7    2.17    L6s       6.13       73
7TS I rFJIt Cast              MA    417           1.       14.0     6.11t    1.14       73
T_m  Om Dalts                 IIA         -      INA.      1.03      -        1
TaSi t        aot o1f d m    1334     45. 0    *tj    13.3         6.11    1.11
primmtl" Po"
LaS       P'-IV   TabS                TIstI
_pa           Credit NW AfrIm  Feleilty C,.dlt              -       2.0       3LO                *4
frle H _Iy Projet                                           -        La        La                  a
lRN                                                         -        1.0       1.0                 2
Pr,_w                                                       -        0.4      0.4                  I
Wma                                                         -        7.6      7.6                  U
V0 LS                                                                 1.4      1.9                 3
_O_wm.t - luwlat higat                                     1IJ       2.7      160                3J
- DntitI_t _aet                                  2.2        -       L2                   4
14.0     ALI      3.1                  la3



- 25 -
2.22      Government's contribution to the project would b  US$17.2
milllon; of this total US$3.7 million would be fore.gn cot?   The bank
Group's contrlbution would be US$31.0 millior (con.i-stian, of USb2 sf
milllon under the proposed project and US$a.0 m.lb..,n pr v1de4 irJer the
Fifth Highway Project). Since spare parts are difticuit to flit orally
owing to insufficient foreign exchange allocations ard inadeqiate
dealership representatIon the Ministry of Public Works will -ommunicate
every year to the Central Bank of Rwanda at the time of program
formulation, the annual foreign exchange requirements of the program to be
financed by Government and will work out with the ren ral Bark the most
appropriate arrangements to secure such foreign eychnhge i vae
fashion. The reconstruction of Section II of the Kigall Gatuna road would
be cofinanced with BADIA while Section III wou:.d be tinarced entitwly by
EDF. Disbursements for this element of the project will be contingent on
confirmation that flnancing for the entire road has been secured.
C. Implecntation and Procureent
2.23      The project would be implemented by the Roads Branch (RB) of the
Miniotry of Public Works, except for the strengthening of international
transport planning which would be implemented by the Ministry of Transport
and Communications. The VD would be responsible for the maiatenance
program, while the ECD would be responsible for the reconstruction of the
Kigali-Gatuna road. The implementation schedule for the elements of the
project is shown in Chart 2. The project would cover a four year slice of
RB's maintenance program starting with 1986. Equipment for road
maintenance would be delivered in the second half of 1986. Technical
assistance to help implement the program would be provided for four years
starting in January 1986. The project Is expected to be completed by
December 1989.
2.24      Table 2.3 summarizes proposed procurement arrangements.



- 26 -
Table 2.3
Procurement Arrangeu_nts
(US4 =lion)
Procurement Method 1/
Not        Total
Project Element         ICB        LCB      other    Applic.2/  Cost
Civil Works             21.9                                      21.9
(12.1)                                   (12.1)
Equipment, Materials    13.3        0.5       1.0        6.4      21.2
Supplies               (12.8)      (0.4)     (0.9)               (14.1)
Consultant Services                           6.0       0.4        6.4
and Fellowships                           (5.8)                (5.8)
Personnel                                               9.6        9.6
35.2       0.5       7.0       16.4      59.1
(24.9)     (0.4)     (6.7)               (32.0)
'/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts fluanced by the proposed
project (including the US$1.0 million contribution from UNDP for
which the BDank would be Executing Agency) and the Fifth Highway
Project.
2/  Contracts financed by Government and by other donors.
2.25      The reconstruction of the first and second section of the
Klgali-Gatuna road would be carried out by contractor following
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's
'Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits'.
Contractors would be prequalified. Equipment, spare parts, materials and
supplies for a total amount of US$13.3 million would be grouped into
suitable lots and procured through ICB In accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines. Coxtracts valued at US$16.0 million will be procured under the
special eligibility criteria of the African Facility.



- 27 -
2.26      Materials, equipment, tools, spare parts and supplies which
cannot be grouped in lots of at least US$75,000 equivalent with an
aggregate limit of US$1 million may be procured on the basis of the
applicable procedures of the borrower (LCD and local and lnternattonal
shopping), which are satisfactory to the Associatlon. Parts for existing
proprietary equipment may be procured directly from suppliers. All
contracts for civil works and equipment contracts over US$75,000 each will
be subject to prior review by the Associatlon, which will cover 100% of the
total value of civil works and about 85% of the value of equipment,
materlals and supplies. Other contracts will be subject to selective
post-award reviews.
2.27      Consultants for supervision, technical assistance and planning
employed under contracts financed by IDA will be hired in accordance wlth
the Bank Group's 'Guldelines for the use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers'. Selectlon will be based primarily on the technical evalaation
of the consultants proposal and final selection will be agreed with IDA
before entering into a contractual agreement.
H. Disbuzoasznt
2.28      The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.0 million and Special Facility
Credit of US$15.0 million will be disbursed on the following basis:
a)   90% of total expenditures for civil works;
b)   100% of foreign expenditures for equipment, tools, spare
parts,materials and supplies; 85% of local expenditures if
procured locally;
c)   100% of total expenditures for consultantst services.
All disbursements will be made against full documentation of expenditures,
except for contracts of less than US$20,000 and for purchases under
US$20,000, which will be made solely on the basis of SOE's.
2.29      In order to expedite and facilitate disbursement, the Government
intends to set up two Special Accounts in a Commercial Bank with initial
deposits of US$0.5 million each to serve as revolving funds for the project
expenditures under the IDA and African Facility Credits. The account would
be maintained in US dollars.
2.30      The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown below.  It is
based on the disbursement profile of past highway projects in the country.
A 6-month delay from the end of the physical execution of the project until
the last payment is given to allow for delays in determining price
variations in contracts.



- 28 -
Table 2.4
E.tiuted Schedule of Disbursemnts
(US4'000)
Bank Group Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                           at End of Quarter
1987
September 30, 1986                                   750
December 31, 1986                                  1,500
March 31, 1987                                     2,650
June 30, 1987                                      3,850
1988
September 30, 1987                                 6,250
December 31, 1987                                  8,700
March 31, 1988                                    11,150
June 30, 1988                                     13,550
1989
September 30, 1988                                15,500
December  31, 1988                                17,400
March 31, 1989                                    19,350
June 30. 1989                                     21,300
1990
September 30, 1989                                22,450
December  31, 1989                                23,650
March 31, 1990                                    24,800
June 30, 1990                                     26,000
Closing Date:  December 31, 1990
I. Accounting. Auditing and Reportln 3meqirsnta
2.31      Difficulties were initially encountered in meeting the accounting
and auditing requirements under the Fifth Highway Project. However, since
October 1984, MPW has taken appropriate measures with the view of meeting
these requirements. In particular an accounting unit was created in early
January 1985. The acc:ounts which have been established by the unit are
adequate. The audit report for 1984 was submitted by the due date.
2.32      The accounting unit which was created under the Fifth Highway
Project will be maintained for carrying out the following responsibilities:
(i) keeping separate general accounts for the project financed by IDA; (ii)
maintaining adequate accounts of all expenditures and operations in respect
of road maintenance to permit cost accounting of RB's operations and the
determination of unit costs (Para. 2.20); and (iii) keeping separate
accounts reflecting the expendltures made under the investment budget of
the Roads Branch.



- 29 -
2.33      It has been agreed, (1) project accounts would be audited by
Independent auditors acceptable to the Associatlon; (ii) such audit wil1 be
extended to the accounting procedures and prlnciples applied for the
preparation of RB's general accounts and its cost accounting and to an
assessment of the adequacy of costs reported; (iii) the audited project
accounts and the auditors' report on the general accounts and cost
accountlig referred to under (li) will be submitted to the Association not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year during project
implementation.
2.34      In addition to the quarterly and annual program implementation
reports (Pars. 2.20) RB will prepare a project completion report in a form
satisfactory to the Association, to be submitted not later than six months
after the Closing Date of the Credit.
J.  Konlrommsatal Asumct
2.35      None of the project's elements would adversely affect the
env' Pament. The planned works would not only improve the drainage system
and smooth the existing tortuous alignment, but would also help decrease
traffic noise, pollution and accidents In the areas. No land use problem
should arise since the road works are to take place on the existing
alignments with no encroachment to housing and agricultural areas.
L   Pover  Alleatio. AsWects
2.36      By improving road conditions In the rural areas, the project will
have a beneficial impact on the rural poor through higher farm gate prices
and lower prices for inputs and consumer goods. Since the labor -
Intensive routine maintenance is undertaken over the entire road network,
largely in low income rural areas, the project would contribute to poverty
alleviation in these areas. In addiltion, the communal roads component of
the project,which is aimed at designing improved arrangements for
maintenance of the unclassdfied road network is likely to have over time a
beneficial impact on the rural population which depends on these roads for
their economic activities.



- 30 -
III. UCONOIIC EVALUATION
A. General
3.01      Governmeat's road maintenance and reconstruction program aims at
lowering transport costs in general by improving the condition of the road
network. To help Government achieve this goal, the project would not only
provide funds to implement Individual components, but also includes
measures aimed at enhancing the performance of the Roads Branch. First,
the project is based on the formulation of comprehensive programs covering
all needed road maintenance and construction. In view of the limited
domestic and external resources of the country, this approach helps ensure
that available funds for the sector are allocated in the best possible
way. As part of this approach, every year a detailed road maintenance
workprogram will be prepared and the road construction plan will be
updated. Second, improved moniroring of the implementation of the program
by force account in terms of quantity and quality of the works carried out
will be introduced. This should ensure that the program and its components
are implemented in a cost effective manner. Third, the project provides
for the training of the staff of the Roads Branch at all levels. As a
result of these measures, the beneficial impact of the project should
extend beyond the direct economic gains to be derived from the components
financed by the Bank Group.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.02      The maintenance program covers the 4,060 km of roads which are
the responsibility of the Roads Branch. This network comprises the most
important roads in the country, linking centers of activity to each other
and to their agricultural hinterland. It is estimated that this network
carries more than 90% of the total traffic in the country. While the
program does not include the financing of works on the communal roads which
act as feeders to the main network, a pilot component for the maintenance
and selective improvement of these roads will be started under the program.
3.03      The main benefits to be derived from the various components of
the program are savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC). Improved road
maintenance will also provide better access to some outlying areas where
roads are at times impassible, reduce freight damage and travel time and
iII1rruve access to social and medical services.  Furthermore, as a result of
improved maintenance, costly reconstruction will be avoided in the future.
3.04      The direct beneficiaries of VOC savings will be the traders/
truckers, transporters and owners of vehicles. Given the competitive
conditions in the road transport industry the VOC savings on commercial
vehicles are expected to be passed on to producers and consumers. Because
marketing and distribution are dominated by traders/truckers whose trading
and trucking activities are not easily separable, the savings in VOC will
be passed on in the form of higher farm-gate prices for agricultural
products and/or lower prices for products sold by the traders/truckers.



- 31 -
3.05      The reconstruction of the Kigali-Gatuna road will have a direct
impact on its area of influence. This road has played a vital role in
opening up the area north of Kigali which suffered from poor communications
in the past. The project will avoid closure of the road and the very
damaging effect it would entail on economic activitly in the region. The
bridges included in the program are dispersed throughout the network.
Where they are intended to replace an existing structure, they will avoid
considerable disruption of traffic. Those that are new structures will
avoid lengthy detours. While the resurfacing of paved roads and the
regravelling of gravel roads will have less of a direct impact on the areas
of influence of these roeds the works will prevent transport cost increases
being imposed on the area of influence in future years.
C.  Economic Evaluation of the Maintenance Profrm
3.06      Four main activities have been evaluated: resurfacing of paved
roads, regravelling/improvement of gravel/earth roads, routine maintenance
of gravel/earth roads and routine maintenance of paved roads. For each, .
the economic analysis is based on a comparison of VOC with and without the
activity. The various activities have been costed net of taxes and
duties (Annex 3.1). Overhead costs, consisting of logistic support to the
individual maintenance brigades and half of the cost of technical
assistance, have been apportioned to these brigades. Traffic growth has
been estimated at 8% per annum.
3.07      Three paved road sections are programmed to be resurfaced during
the 1986-1989 period (Annex 3.3). The resurfacing of these roads will
improve the riding surface and protect the base course and hence will have
a favorable impact on future VOC and on road repair and maintenance costs.
VOC for a paved road in good condition are shown in Annex 3.2; without the
investment VOC would rise rapidly. The economic cost of resurfacing and
traffic flow in respect of these roads are detailed in Annex 3.3. The ERR
for this componeat is estimated at 86%.
3.08      The 1986-1989 program includes the regravelling/improvement of 13
gravel/earth roads. Regravelling is expected to lower VOC not only in the
year in which the activity is carried out but also during a number of
subsequent years varying between four and six depending on terrain and
traffic flow. The economic cost of regravelling/improvement carried out by
force account is estimated at FRW 2,015,000. The traffic flow for these
roads is detailed in Annex 3.3. The ERRs range between 22% and 100%. The
overall ERR for this component is 58%.
3.09     The bridge maintenance units are responsible for the upkeep of the
171 bridges which are part of the main network and many of the structures
on the communal roads. These activities will only marginally affect VOC
(riding surface) but their main benefit consists in prolonging the economic
life of the structures and in preventing bridge closures through timely
intervention. They are therefore well justified.



- 32 -
3.10      The routine maintenance on the 3,159 km of earth/gravel roads
consists of the labour intensive operations by the 200 road maintenance
gangs responsible, inter alia, for filling potholes and the cleaning of
drainage and culverts. Failure to carry out these activities will affect
VOC even during the first year. More importantly, every year that the
needed maintenance is postponed will result in higher eaintenance/
rehabilitation costs for the following year and/or the need to reconstruct
the roads earlier. The ERR of this component has been estimated
conservatively by assuming that for the 'without project' case the routlne
maintenance would be postponed by one year. The ERR is 62.4%. Details on
the assumptions and the costs are shown in Annex 3.4.
3.11      Some 2,000 km of earth/gravel roads would be graded every year.
This operation has a direct impact on the road condition and hence on VOC.
The economic cost of a grading cycle is estimated at FRW 40,000 per km and
would on average reduce VOC by FRW 7 per veh/km. The ERR is estimated at
more than 1OOZ (Annex 3.4).
3.12      Routine maintenance of paved roads, consisting mainly of
patching, concerns the 623 km of paved roads which by the end of the
program period will have grown to 900 km. Failure to carry out these
activities will have a direct impact on vehicle operating costs and cause
increases in future road repair and maintenance costs. The ERR of this
component has been estimated conservatively by assuming that for the
'without project' case the routine maintenance would be postponed by one
year. The ERR is 71%. Details on the assumptions and the costs are shown
in Annex 3.4.
D. Ecoooaic Evaluation of the KIgali-GatuMa Road
Traffic
3.13      The local and international traffic on the Xigali-Gatuna road
have been evaluated separately. The periodic traffic counts carried out on
the project road by the RB since 1970 were supplemented by additional
counts by the consultant who prepared the detailed design and feasibility
study. For purposes of traffic analysis and traffic projections, the
Kigali-Gatuna has been divided in three sections of homogeneous traffic
flow. These sections are defined by major junctions at km 13 and km 50 and
by the Uganda border at km 80. Local traffic in 1983 was estimated at
2,300 vpd on section 1, 142 vpd on section 2 and 65 vpd on section 3.
About 20% were heavy vehicles. Growth in local traffic has been estimated
at 7%, slightly less than the average traffic growth adopted for the
network in general, in view of the fact that the road has been open to
traffic for many years. In 1988, the year of opening of the new road,
local traffic on the three sections is estimated at 3,230, 200 and 90
vpd respectively.
3.14      The Kigali-Gatuna road forms part ot the road route in the
Northern Corridor (Para. 1.09) which is the main import/export route for
Rwanda and a major route for Burundi. 1983 international traffic en the



- 33 -
road hea been estimated at 67 heavy vehicles and 4 light vehicles per day
uulig customs records from the Gatuna border post.  Future international
traffic on the road will be determined by the growth irn the total flows of
Imports, exports and translt traffic and by the attracceveness of the route
(and the Kigall-Gatuna link as part of this route) compared to alternative
routes and links. Taking Into consideration projected growth of imports,
exports and of transit traffic, Rwanda's total external goods transport is
projected to Increase at an annual rate of 6Z. Thus, in the absence of a
shift in the comparative attractiveness of the northern road route and of
the Klgali-Catuna link, international traffic on the road would grow at a
rate of 6 per annum.
3.15      However, as a result of Rwanda's policies aimed at
diversification of import and export routes as a necessary security measure
in view of possible turbulance in neighboring countries, the northern road
route and the Kigali-Gatuna link are likely to lose some of their
comparative attractiveness in the future. In particular, the upgrading to
paved standard of the Kayonza-Kakitumba road, which offers an alternative
link to the Kigali-Gatuna road In the context of the Northern road route,
could divert some international traffic away from the Kigali-Gatuna road.
Since, however, the Kayonza-Kakitumba alternative is 55 km longer it would
not become attractive until the condition of the link in Uganda (the
Kakitumba-Nfungamo road) which at present is an earth/gravel road in poor
condition has been improved.
3.16      Moreover, developments in respect of the Central Corridor could
also affect the attractiveness of the northern road route. In particular,
measures are being considered to make the Isaka route operational and
various programs are underway to improve the facilities of the Kigoma
route. The latter improvements would affect the volume of transit traffic
from Burundi. Considering that these developments have a degree of
uncertainty and would take several years to be implemented it is expected
that the comparative attractiveness of the Kigali-Gatuna road will remain
unchanged until the mid 1990s. Accordingly, the analysis  s35umes that
International traffic on the Kigali-Gatuna will grow at 6Z per annum until
1995 and that thereafter all further growth in Rwanda's external traffic
will be absorbed entirely by the other routes.
Veblcle Operatiug Costs
3.17      Vehicle operating costs in the 'with project' caa: are those of a
paved road in good condition shown on Annex 3.2. Because of the
deteriorated condition of the existing road, current vehicle operating
costs are some 16% to 37% higher depending on the road section. Without
reconstruction, vehicle operating costs will continue to rise rapidly. By
the year 2003, the road would have deteriorated to such an extent that it
would not be able to accomodate expected traffic volume without
prohibitively high maintenance and repair costs.
Coastruction and Maintenance Costs
3.18      Reconstruction costs for the entire road in 1985 prices,
excluding taxes but including 10% physical contingencies, are estimated at
FRW 2,501.8 million (Annex 3.5).  The cost of new works for crossing the



- 34 -
marsh in section 3 is estimated at FRW 436.5 mil10on under a high
alternative and FRW 238.1 million under a low alternative. Construction
supervision is estimated at FRW 127.1 million. The cost of resurfacing the
road after seven years is estlmated at FRW 3.1 million. Maintenance costs
for the 'with project' case have been estimated on the basis of maintenance
cost data from the Roads Branch at about half the average cost of paved
road maintenance in the country. In view of the already deteriorated
condition rf the road, maintenance costs in the 'without project' case will
be between two to three times the average maintenance cost In the country.
Moreover, in order to keep the road passable with growing traffic, annual
maintenance outlays will have to increase by about 8% per annum.
Iconamic Return
3.19      Since traffic levels are significantly different on the three
sections, the economic analysis was carried out by section and for the road
as a whole. Assuming a 15-year economic life for the lnveatment, the
comparison of the costs and benefits indicates that it is well justified,
yielding an overall ERR of 20.4%. The ERRs by section are: section 1:
42.3Z; section 2: 16.3%; bection 3: 12.5%. The ERR for section 3 is
lowest on account of the high cost which has been assumed for the works for
crossing the marsh at km 68 (Paras. 2.09 and 3.18). Should the less costly
alternative prove feasible, the ERR would be 15.1% for this section. Since
the works would be required for the road to play its role as an
international route the ERR has been calculated after reallocating the
total cost of the works to the three sections in pro-rata to their length.
The ERRs by section are then: section 1: 37.4%; section 2: 14.7%;
section 3: 16.3%.
Senstivity
3.20      A sensitivity analysis was carried out on two critical variables
determining the outcome of the economic analysis: construction costs and
international traffic. With a 20% increase in construction costs the
overall ERR would be 17.7% and 37.4% for section 1, 14.0% for section 2 and
10.6Z for section 3. A halving of the growth of international traffic
between 1988 and 1995 would yield an overall ERR of 19.6% and the ERR by
section would be 42.1Z, 15.3%, and 11.4% respectively. If there were both
a 20% increase in costs and a halving of the growth of international
traffic the ERR would be 16.9% for the road as a whole and by section
37.3%, 13% and 9.5% respectively.
E. Overall Evaluation of Project Components
3.21      The components of the project for which costs and benefits have
been quantified represent 94% of the total. The overall economic rate of
return for the6., components Is 46.2%.



- 35 -
F* Riuks
3.22      For the maintenance program in general, the main risk is that the
productivlty and therefore the output would be lower than expected. Based
on past experlence, output could be affected by managerial weaknesses in
the force account operations and by shortages of imported fuel and parts.
In recognition of the first factor the program includes a training program
aimed at institution building and experts for assisting the Roads Branch
with Implementation. Moreover, the annual programming and monitoring
measures included under the project (Pares. 2.19-2.20) will contribute to
Improve the quantity and quality of maintenance outputs by force account.
Finally, in order not to stretch the still limited capability of the Roads
Branch, a start is made under the program with periodic maintenance works
by contract. In order to avert possible interruptions In the execution of
maintenance works caused by shortages of foreign exchange and/or transport
difficulties in neighboring countries both affecting Imported supplies, the
project would help finance about 60% of the fuel and parts needed under the
project and provides for a revolving fund in foreign currency which will
allow the Roads Branch to continue operating, albeit at a reduced level,
under adverse circumstances.
3.23       Previous construction projects in Rwanda (with the exception of
the Fifth Highway Project) have experienced interruptions in the works and
consequent cost overruns due to shortages of construction materials and
fuel caused by transport difficulties in neighboring transit countries. To
minimize the risk of implementation delays on account of such
interruptions, provision will be made for a larger than usual stock of
materials and fuel in the contract documents for the reconstruction of the
Kigali-Gatuna road.



- 36 -
IV.  4gremnuts lkecbed and Rocammdation
4.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) Government's forward expenditure program for the road sector for
1986; Government to update every year the scheduling of road
investments and its forward expenditure program for the road
sector on the basis of economic and financial feasibllity
criteria; to afford IDA an opportunity to comment upon the
updated Investment program and to use the updated programs to
strengthen donor coordination (Para. 1.07);
(b) Government will strengthen the function of transport planning
within the organizational structure of MPW and MOTC by June 30,
1986 (Para. 1.08);
(c) The TOR for the transport planning function (Paras. 1.16, 1.18);
(d)  Government to prepare by June 30, 1986 proposals for gradually
financing a larger share of recurrent road maintenance
expenditures (Para. 1.29);
(e) RB's workprogr.m for road maintenance for 1986 (Para. 2.19);
(f) RB to prepare every year by October 31, the workprogram for road
maintenance for the following year, to furnish the program to IDA
for its review and finalize it taking into account IDA's comments
(Para. 2.19);
(g) RB to monitor the implementation of the annual workprogras
following methods satisfactory to the Association and to initiate
productivity and cost analyses of force account activities
(Para. 2.20);
(h) MPW to communicate every year to the Central Bank of Rwanda the
annual foreign exchange requirements of the maintenance Program
to be financed by Government and to work out with the Central
Bank appropriate arrangements to secure such foreign exchange
(Pars. 2.22);
(i) the procurement procedures for works, goods and services financed
under the proposed project (Paras. 2.24-2.26);
(J) the accounting auditing and reporting requirements (Paras.
2.31-2.34);
4.02      Special conditions of effectiveness of the Credit/African
Facility Credit will be that: (i) the new law governing traffic regulations
has been put into effect (Para. 1.20); (ii) the Personnel Bureau has been
strengthened and a Training Unit and a Training Coordination Committee have
been set-up (Para. 2.12);



- 37 -
4.03      A special condition of disbursement for the reconstruction of
section I and II of the Kigali-Gatuna road will be that financing for the
entire road has been secured (Para. 2.22).
4.04      Agreemeat having been reached on the items in Paras. 4.01 and
4.02 above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 10.7
million (US$11.0 million equivalent) and an African Facility Credit of SDtW
14.5 million (US$15.0 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1. 1
smT  HICIIy PROJECT
Dmvelo,eot of Paved Roads
X.titX Road.                                                     km
1. Kigall-Gitarawa-Butare-Akanyaru                               156
2. Kigall-Xayonza-Klbungo-Rusumo                                 165
3.  Kigali-Gatuna                                                 80
4.  Kigall-Ruhengeri-Cyanika                                     113
5.  Zaire-Bug rama-Zaire                                          38
6.  Kamembe-Cyangugu (Rusizi)                                      7
7. Bugarama-Ruhwa (Frontiere Burundi)                              8
8.  Ruhengeri-Glsenyi                                             60
Sub-Total        627
uoder Construction
9. Butare-Gikongoro-Ntendezi-Cyangugu                            153
10. Kayonza-Kagitomba                                            121
Sub-Total        274
TOTAL            901
Planned for Pavin,g
11. Hukamira-Kcbaya-Rambura-Ngororero                             57
12. Gitarama-Ruhengeri                                           101
13. Gitarama-Kibuye                                               87
14.  Uicukiro-Nyamsta-Nesba-Murehe                                60
TOTAL            305



RWANDA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet
(Unit.)
Annual Growth
(2 p.a.)
1976        1978         1980         981         1982         1983   1976-80  1980-83
Passenger Cars               2,713        3,488        5,436       6,187        6,188        6,437     19.0       6.0
Pick-ups, Hinibuaes,Jeeps   2,432         3,925        6,520       7,516        6,991        7,457     28.0       4.5
Trucks                         858        1,051        1,504        1,550       1,383        1,467     15.0        -
Truck/Trailer combination                                452         486          350          351               (7.0)
Other                          299          388          211         264          206          225                2.0
Bus                                                                                74          115
Total              6,302       8,852       14,124       16,003      15,192       16,062      22.5      4.5
Motorcycles                   538         1,243        2,577       3,148        3,579        4,005     48.0      16.0
z
z
m



SInTs Bowy PIOJUCT
Imports of Petroleoo Product.
toM)
hmul Growth
(U P...)
1976        1978         1980        1981         1982      1983     19U    1976-6  1976-40 1960-4
Premium and Regular
Gasoline                    15,098      20,576       23,326      29,721       27,407   334,188   33,298    10.4    11.5       9.3
Diesel Fuel                  14,639       12,679      14,286       17,835      19,526    22,941   26.997      8.0       -     17.G
Sub-Total       29,737       33,255      37,612       47,556      46,993    57,129   60,295       9.2     6.0    12.5
Other                    5.572       7.315        8.010
Total       35,309       40,570      45,622
11
e m
-a
N



- 41 -
ANNEX 1.3
Page 2 of 2
RWANDA
SIXT HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Prices and TaXSJ
Premium Gasoline             Diesel Fuel
(Liter)                     (Liter)
FRW      US$               FRW     US$
FOB Nombava                   28.71      0.27             23.95    0.23
Transport                     14.50      0.14             14.50    0.14
CIF Kigali                    43.21      0.41             38.45    0.37
Insurance                      0.15      -                 0.15   -
Import duty                   13.23      0.13             12.60    0.12
Nagerwa costs                  0.03      -                 0.03    -
Banking costs                  1.30      0.01              1.15    0.01
Other costs                     -                          3.24    0.0;
Subtotal                 57.92      0.55             55.62   0.53
Distribution margin            8.69      0.08              8.34    0.08
Total                    66.61      0.63             63.96    0.61
Pmp Price                     66.80      0.64             63.90    0.61



O.vezint 3.,.u.    f=m loud UeM~ mmd Ezniii   -Raab
et hN_fr Ib1 _JUt.
1976        1978         1960         1961         1982         133         1964
Road Tax                     27.2        33.8         88.0         94.0        155.0        179.3       201.8
Vehicle RegI.tration          5.7         7.9          7.3          7.0          7.0         58.7        57.5
Border toll                  25.1        40.0         62.1        121.2        126.1       206.1         177.5
Import duties: Fuel        157.8        173.4        195.6        221.6        230.3       278.5        637.8
Spares      31.8         45.2         37.5         30.1         98.7         92.3        95.5
Vehicles    99.7        159.5        293.9        207.6        296.2       293.6        237.4
Tires        33.9        54.3        140.8         91.3         87.1         98.2        93.7
Motorcycles              10.9          7.4         11.0         10.7         17.6         22.8  v
Cycles                   13.7         16.5         15.8         14.6         23.1        21.8
Total            381.2        538.7       849.1        799.6       1025.7       1247.4       1545.8
Highway Maintenance                     291.6        657.1        603.8        561.8        789.1        603.5
Highway Construction                    311.4       1133.6        174.6       3510.7       3206.2      3920.1



S1ET HIGHAY PROJECT
AIR T3PORT
1    FreLht
1980               1981                1982                19J3
In        Obt      In      Gout        In       Out        In        oat
Total
(All origins and destinations)    15,975    22,331  15,954   20,333    14,202   16,505    12,248    15,637
Of which Mombasa                    10,448    17,723  11,103   15,121       8,136   11,443      7,713     9,845
Total minus Mombasa                  5,527     4,608   4,851    5,212       6,066    5,062      4,535     5,792   &
2. 2 4   2ee  r2
Total                               20,032    19,815  21,944   24,918    22,696   24,009    22,283    22,230



un NI mA cr
Ulda Rb sp Ddtore 1976 - 1983
1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1964
EiSkW  Nalntmm
Government's Recurrent
Budget                       178.2        192.3        283.9        247.2        310.8         406.9        448.0
External financing:
Multilateral   113.4         439.3        305.8        289.2        183.7         154.2        112.3
Bilateral                                  67.4         67.4         67.4        228.0         43.2  4
Sub-Total          291.6        631.6        657.1         603.8        561.8        789.1        603.5   1
Hlsivw Conmtretion
Government'. Investment
Budget                       89.4         80.2        328.3        174.6        761.4        720.7         634.6
External fLnancings:
Multilateral)                                                      1748.4       1439.2      2,665.3
)  222.0        375.7        805.3
Bilateral   )                                                      1000.9       1046.3        620.2
Sub-Total          311.4        455.9       1133.6         174.6      3510.7        3206.2      3,920.1
I
X
oa



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.1
RIMEDA
Si=n uzmm,i nRozcr
ROAD  INTE*  OF PAVED ROANB
RouineisMltu
ExisingPavsd Roads                                           ent
KiLga3li-Gitarina-Butare-Akanyaru                      156
Kigall1-Kayouza-kibungo-Rusumo                         165
Kigali-Gatuna                                           so
Kigall-Ruhengeri-Cyanika                               113
Zalrs-Bugarama-Zeirs                                    38
Ksumibe-Cyangugu (Rijaizi)                               7
Dugarama-Ruhwa (frontiers Burundi)                       a
Ruhengeri-Giaenyl                                       60
Subtotal                                        627
Paved Rlnd. Under Catmt
Butare-Gikougoro-Ntandezi-Cyangugu                     153
Kayonza-Kagitumba                                      121
Subtotal                                        274
Total                                           901
Repelz. aed Selective  aufcg
Kigali-Rusumo                                          (156)
Kigali-Kayonza                                           68
Kayonza-Kibungo                                          30
Butare-Akanyaru                                          32
Total.                                        130



- 46 -
ANNEX 2.2
amm
SIXT EIIAY PROJECT
Mslutinaace of Xarth/Gravel lload.
selectivetly Tarouna and 3EraYal (k-)
Kieukiro-Kanzenze-Nemba                  60
Rugerero-Rubengera                      79
Cyuru-Gatsibo                           33
Rugobagoba-Kinazi-RN. 1                 53
Nyabla±ndu-Ruragwe                       78
Ngororero-Mukaaudra                      57
Xabarondo-hkagera                        32
Nyabikenke-RN. 3                        47
KinuLgi-*fkingo-Nkuli-futura             59
Total                         498



An 2.3
311T3 316031 FmaiIc?
ilrwIT RiWTS
1              2                    3          4 _                               7            6           9         s0           it         12           13          _4
eurcrtiam    behar-  lattaties                 Total      total    cbterta         l   1oea                Prix         Pru
reutimo     Boneat      sm1a                 macoctl   material   out place    mocartel    louta        initaira     total
Iht.ri.l              roto;      rests.     nrotes      lai.-       ao-        MTr                       _                       _b        - lb
U@.       ~~Detail            asphalt.  as terra   amterra    tip.e    Beira            place     gp.iieto   ocbatei   Orhatat         a 1.606     3 1.666     abinrtot
2   klldot.r                       I          2                       1         4
3   tell.  churgeis  C4T930        1          4                       1         4
3   Wi1veolm    CAT 12C0 6 
9   Gniwnbemma 10t                 4         is                       3        23          29           1s                     10        5.3         533.66
10   Cmlee-beoam St                 4                                            4                                   4           4         33390       MI.2S
11   Comiew-aiteme cam                         2                                 2            I                                            6.000
12   Cmtieiterm  garb.                                                2         2            4           2                               *.50
LS   conIum-ber  give & ir.                                            1         1112.6000
14   Cnieu-etelier                             2                                 2                                   2           2        12.20        24.460
IS   Ctiem-gr_  ce4                            2                                                                     2           2        ?.30         13.6004
16   Cesiastroete1r peer                                                                                                                  16000
uemrnque owbalee a                                                                                                                   04
20   Umleme bain 4-It                                           4                      4                                                   SA
22   madam. tedis  00 km            4          46a                                                                                         1.610        I.=
23  IPl"oq  tibremba 90 kb          4                      4                                                         4            a          420        1.666
24   ?ratet 90OW                    2          4           1U                   is           22          14                     14         3.560       49.766
25  Remorque b init                 4          a           24                   3            44         2i                                 1L.100      36.200
24  CMtresoet  tq.                  2          a                                 4            4           3                       3        17900        3.109
27   Cttermo  gb.  rinq.            2          2                                 4            4                                  3         2.XP0        6.906
2s   em=orquo seriasl.                                                           2            I                      I 1                   3.100
29   Cite_ a" statS..                                      2                     2            2                      2            2          2o   l is. locl
30   Citeu  Barb. statio.           22                                 2                                             2            2          2S6          no    ou1. total
31   Cmm_gte e      blle                       I                       1         3            3                                            3.200
32   CoWesoer stattis.                                                                                                                     1.100        2.100
34   mttoes perforato r                        4                       3         9                                   9                       3 6        3.150
IS   lrtmem   itme.                 *                                  3         9                                   9           9           300         M310
4   bkule  lstri2r                             2                       J         2                                   a            I2        S1O           30
31   beblIm  de tic                                                              2                                   a            2          200          460
39     " TM 7__ 1.                                                                                                                         1.900
40   k voodoo" seettlq.4001                                                                                                                1.608
43  bfebmma do mor4iago                                                2         2            1                      1            1            6
44   Cramps  Iletrug. 7g5 31A                                          2         2            I           I                       a           0            0
43   grasps  leetrug. 133141                   2                                 2            I           I          I            I66                      O
46   No"      a.                    2          2                       3         1            4           4          3            1300                  2.166
47   tests   omew moble                                                                                                                      130
41   CIma"tte pfc&-up               2          4           12          5        23           39          26                                1.400       11.2001
49   U toin  we too litre                      4                                 4                                   4            4          22         2.660
66   Alamille shinto                           4                                 4                                                           14          3m
31   buleete                                   a                                 a            4                                            2.66
52   br qrn sametlr                 444                                                                                           4          2D0        1.6011
53  ftlqlreme radil                            22                                             9S
54 1 bigges" Hol1me teat
tlrainaI                                                                                                       4           4        2.500        1o.0"6
Oweift dlwurs                    2                                                                                 22                     N           5.m6
51  OQtill                                     a                                                                                           1.600        I.M6
N0 Quteis divers
39 Ottila ilefsr                                         I                                                                              4.7)3        24.133
-   -  -   -  -         -           -           -           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
334.113~~~~z



- 48 -
ANNMX 2.4
Page I of 7
VAAU
ST= IEUCAT PUDJT
Staffima and  _ p nr Deneloo  o
Road Branch (RB) Staff
RB staff numbered 5,764 at the end of 1904--72 were peranent,
945 were under contract, and 4,767 were hired ad hoc and paid on a daily
basls. In additlon, the RB received technical assistance from Cormany,
whose programs hired and helped in flnancing approzlimtely 1,169 day
laborers.
The number of higher level staff is low. In July 1984, the RB
had only twelve civil engineers and seven techniclan englneers.  The
shoctage of engineers will continue to be a critical problem for Rwanda for
a long time.  At present, RB has nilateen expatriate experts, not counting
others working under works supervision contracts for road and brldge
construction projects.  Because of the lack of local counterparts,
coordination of their activities has proven very difficult.
With respect to local contract personnel, there is often a
great disparity in education levels within a given vocational category.-
As the national education system does not produce enough skilled workers or
technicians, the Civil Service often hires people without any vocational
training. Moreover, certain sectors are definitely overmanned.
The RB staff's wages are low compared with those In prlvate
enterprises. Certain technical assistance programs that use local labor
are obliged to pay their people according to scales different from those of
the State. Management of Rn's contract and day staff is entrusted to an
office consisting of a manager and four secretaries. Statistical data on
this personnel are not available to determine the exact personnel situatton
or forecast future trends.
Training over the Perlod 1978-85
RI's training plan was started in 1978. Financlg was provlded
from 1978-82 by German Technical Assistance (GTZ), UNDP, and IDA. GTZ and
IDA have continued to provide funding since January 1983. During the
period 1979-82, 124 RB staff were trained and 301 received refresher
training (automotive mechanics, engine operators, machinists, truck drivers
and site supervisors). RB's training center, which was set up in 1979,
graduated Its first class of 11 mechanics In 1982 and its second class of
15 mechanies in 1984.
Losses after training for englne operators have been small.
Among truck drivers, however, losses have been quite high-30% of those
1/   Among the accountants, 50% have completed general secondary educatlon
and 30% the four post-primary years, while the remaining 202 have not
completed primary school. At the Central Workshop at Kigali, 50% of
the workers have not completed primary education. As to workslte
managers, only four have technical secondary diploma (lt level),
whlle the remainder have just secondary or primary education.



- 49 -
ANNBX 2.4
Page 2 of 7
trained have left. The training of apprentice mechanics at the RD Training
Center has been of good quality. On the other hand, reiresher trainlng for
mechanics ran Into difficulties as many of the tralnees had not completed
primary education and lacked the requlred general knowledge.
Training Program for the Period 1986-89
The training program for the period 1986-89 is deaigned
primarily to make the RB's personnel better able to handle the different
technical, administrative, and flnancial responsibilities. The chief
emphasis will be on the retraining of existing personnel; it will no longer
be limited to mechanical engineering and equipment operation, but will
cover all sectora of the Department's activities. The goal of this
training program will be to produce approximately: (1) 50 assistant
mechanlcs and 45 mechanLcs; (1i) 13 equipment operator. and 70 truck and
light-vehicle drivers; (iiI) 10 worksite managers and 15 supervisors; (iv)
50 secretarles, accountants, and storemen; (v) 60 apprentice nechanics;
(vi) 13 supervlsory staff in technical, administrative, and financial
management; (vii) two vocatlonal training managers.
Implementation of the Train!^; Plan
Traning Centers. Besides the Road Branch's Training Center,
another two    hb]ishents were identified as supporting institutions:  The
Senlor Staff Training Center at Murambi, and the Kigali-Mihlma Advanced
Training Center. Moreover, It is essential to strengthen the equipment at
the RB Training Center. The recommended training format for apprentice
mechanics (practical Instruction at the Central Wbrkshop, theoretical
training at the Training Center) will be maintained, but the number of
assistant mechanics employed by the Central Workshop will have to be
reduced to make room for the trainees receiving practical instruction and
allovy for monitoring of the training process.
Training of Asslstant Mechanics, Mechanics, and Electricians.
GTZ would continue to support (i) the upgrading and retraining of assistant
mechanics and mechanics, electricians, and supply technicians at the
Central Workshop, and the practical instruction of apprentice mechanics;
(ii) the training of local counterpart staff.
Training of Highway Engine and Truck Operators. To retrain 13
engine operators and assist with setting up the truck driver retraining
program, one of the most urgent steps will be to select two of RB's best
em4.ne operators following the criteria set up by RB's Traiolng Center.
These candidates will be required to work closely with an engine operation
consultant financed by the project, with a view to becoming Instructors in
this field.
The engine operation consultant would provide his services in
two stages: (i) participating in trainee selection, reviewing the existing
training programs, training local counterparts, and participating in
operator training; (ii) evaluating the results obtained and introducing
improvements both to the programs and to the training methodology. One of



- 50 
ANNEX 2.4
Page 3 of 7
the goals of the Sixth Highway Project Is to prepare the Training Center to
use its own personnel to train equipment operators without having to call
In long-term consultantes
Training of Workuite Managers and Supervisors. This training
would be planned in conjunction with the production and Training Center
managers, since It will partly take place on the site. Tbm theory part
will take the form of 4-week (maximum) modules with the assistance of a
consultant asslsted by RIandese or expatriate engineers working for RB.
This coisultant would be on a 6-month assignment, during which his
ptincipal tanks would be (1) to work with the training coordinator and the
production managers on developing the training prograrm and teaching
doumsents; (ii) to particlpate in implementation of these program.;
(ill) to organize seminars to Introduce the Rwandese engineers to the
techniques of communication and eoaching, and to itentify which of those
engineers Night be able to particlpate In the training provided by the
Center; (iv) to monitor on-site training.
Training of Secretaries, Accountants, and Storemen. This
tralinng will take place with the assistance of the two centers already
existing In Rwanda: the Murambi Senior Staff Training Center, and the
Center for Advanced Training at Kigall-Mihima.
Senior Staff Training. This training would take place partly
abroad and partly locally: (iL training abroad: fifteen 3-6 month
fellowships would be provided: (a) thirteen in management, for the
Department's senior management (Director General, Technical Director,
Inspectors, Division Chiefs, Chiefs of Technical Units); (b) two in
vocational tralning organization and planning; (ii) local training: this
would take the form of seminars and on-the-job training with the
participation of the technical assistance staffs working with the
Department.
Training Coordination Committee
In the past, training was organized as needed for upcoming
highways projects, and was restricted to operational staff (mechanics,
engine operators). Since the Rwandan higher level staff is mostly young
and inexperienced, a large part of the technical work, studies and
supervision is still executed by expatriates from the technical assistance
programs. The transferring of responsibilities to local staff cannot be
effective unless training Is given a greater role in this process. For
that purpose, a Training Coordination Committee would be set up. The
Comittee, chalred by the Director General, would have the following tasks:
(i) examine and approve the training policy proposed by the Training Unit;
(ii) ensure close liaison between training and the various technical,
administrative, and financial services; (iii) mobilize the human resources
available for tiaining purposes: (iv) approve the annual training programs
and timetables; (v) formulate recommendations for the Training Unit aimed
at improving the quality of training, focusing in particular on adapting
the training to the requirements of each individual job; (vi) propose the
necessary administrative measures to ensure normal operation of the
Training Center.



- 51 -                          ME   .
ANNEX 2.4
Page 4 of 7
Personnel Management
Assisted by the Training Coordinator and a personnel planning
consultant, the Personnel Bureau will include amorg Its tasks: (1) tha
creation and updatlng of job descriptions; (ii) the creation and updating
of individual records (human resources Inventory); (11i) the collection of
Information on the short- and medium-term needs expressed by the divisions
and services; (iv) a comparison of these needs with the existlng staff and
qualifications In each specialLzed area, after deductions for foreseeable
attrition (retirements, resignation., transfers due to Ineptitude, etc.);
(v) the formulation of proposals for meeting short- and imdlum-term needs,
In light of any vocational training that may be required and of any
necessary recrultments, specifying conditions and possibilities of
attritlon, with particular attention to retraining to reduce the number of
staff in certain categories.
Training Unlt
A Training Unit would be created and would be responsible for:
(1) assisting the Roads Branch In drawing up a policy for continuing
training; (ii) in coordination with the Personnel Office, establlshlng the
annual training programs; and (Iii) the preparation, scheduling, and
execution of these training programs. Special attention needs to be given
to the identiflcation of local and expatriate specialists who might
possibly take part in the training. The Training Unit will be assisted by
a Training Coordinator financed by the Project.
Use of Human Resources
The human resources provided by the technical assistance
programs to the Road Branch will be used, with prompting from the Training
Coordination Committee, to increase training resources. This expatriate
personnel can help In three different ways: (i) organizing short-term
seminars for the senior-level staff; (ii) teaching technical courses at the
Troining Center on a part-time basls; (iii) strengthening the present
system of on-the-job training, through the periodic organization, depending
on the level of the trainees involved, either of practical demonstrations
at the Central Workshops or the worksltes, or of seminars on the type of
real work situation commonly encountered by each group of professionals.
These reports should be used by the Training Unit and by the Personnel
Bureau as aids both in planning continuing training and in evaluating the
personnel concerned.



52 -                           ANNEX 2.4
Page 5 of 7
Eeai  ramah  hwemmal.
(lepamber 15:03
FORMAL TRAINING
Seq.                       No. of  Clvil  Tech. General         Techlcal  Tech.      3 Yr. Primry
No.       Category          Staff   Eng8   E.g.   Sec. DIpI.  Sec. Dipi  Sec. Dpl  Post  Education
(sr.)      (Jr.)   Prim.
1.   Director General       1       1
2.   Director               2       2
3.   Division Chief         6       4      2
4.   Bureau Chief           8              2        1            5
S.   Planner,Controller    8        5      3
6.   Worksite Chief         17                      3            4           5        2         3
7.   Site Supervisor        11                      3            3          3         2
8.   Foresan               24                                    3          3         9         9
9.   Ae8t. Supervisor       18                      3            2          7         6
10.   Accountant             12                      3            3          3         3
11.   Scoreoan              33                       2                        6       17         8
12.   Typist                25                                                        25
13.   Engine Operator        52                                                                 52
14.   Truck Driver          62                                                1        2        59
15.   Tractor Operator      24                                                         4        20
16.   Vehicle Driver         57                                                                 57
17.   Workshop Chief          3                                              3
18.   Mechanic Chief        20               1                    7          6         4         2
19.   Mechanic              72                                              70         2
20.   Aoat. Mechanic         62                                               L       67         4
21.   Carponter              12                                               4         5        3
22.   Land Surveyor           8                                              7         1
23.   Chemlcal Tech.          5                                               4         1        8
24.   Draftsman               5                                               4         1
25.   Painter                13                                                       13
26.   Welder                 19                                              12        3         4
27.   Asat. Land Survey.   11                        1                                 2         8
28.   Cutter                  2                                                                  2
29.   Messenger               8                                                        2         6
30.   Capitas              240                                                        43       197
31.   Secretary-Editor        3                      3
32.   ArchiLvist              9                                               3        5         1
33.   Mason                  30                                                       10        20
34.   Gurdian                26                                                                 26



- 53 -                         ANNZX 2.4
Page 6 of 7
Tr aiui1 Aetiwltie
(11979-my-
Total No.                       Year
Seq.                           Anticipated
No.       Category                                1979       1980      1981       1982
T     R         T    k    T    R    T    R    T    R
Is   luLidozer Operator         8      4        -   -      -   2    -    9    -    -
2.   Loader Operator            8      6        -   -      -   4    -   10    -    -
3.   Grader Operator            8      9        -   -      -   2    -   11    -    -
4.   Roller O,arator            4      5        -   -      -   -    -    -    -    -
5.   Tractor operator          14      9        -   -    27   -    -    -   14    -
6.   Vehicle Driver             50    25        8   -    21   -    -    -    -    -
7.   Truck Driver              97    28         -  22    32   -    -    -    -    -
7.   Excavator Oprator          -      -        -              -    -    -    -    -
9.   Spreater Operator           5     -        -   -      -   -    -    -    -    -
90.   Crment Mdxer  Oper.        4      -        -   -      -   -    -    -    -    -
10.    orkisite
Superlnterdent             -      a                                  -    -    -
12-.  WorkilteJet.
Superintendent             -    14         -   -      -      - 
13.   Superviior                 -    11         -   -      -   -    -   11    -    -
14.   AJst. Supervisor           -    11         -   -      -   -         11    -    -
15.   Storeman                   12     -        -   -      -   -    -    -    -    -
16.   Secretary                  -      -        -   -      I   -    1    -    -    -
AUTO DIUSEL NBCAMIC
17.   Level I l  Asst.          40      -        -   -      -  67    -   67    -    -
18.   Level 2                   48    45         -   -      -  54    -   13    6    -
19.   Lubricator                 -      -        -   -      8   -    -    -    -    -
20.   Marking Machine Oper.       -     -        -   -      -   -    4    -    -    -
GCNhUL DUCHASIC
21.  Mechanic                     -     7                                  7    -    -
22.  Machinist                    -     2         -   -     -   -    -    3    -    -
23.   Welder                    21    14         -   -      -   -    -    -    -    -
CL U~ZIC
24.   Auto Electrician            8     6        -   -      8   6    -    -    -    -
25.   Workshop Chief              3     -      -            -   -    -    -    -    -
Total                    330   204         8  22    97 135    5  142   20    -
T - Trained; R - Retrained



-54-
Category              N.            aUmrke                   cat                Organisation
CM  a 1000)           a1mPOaib16
A. TUAINING MM                   a) Workhop at Cm  ponmerd                        GTE
1 * .ft    c    e 8                 by CTA
Trucks                  16    b) Sh eritlcl Iutruation                         Tratilg Cater
Treator.                11       st the  V TSraining
Heavy Uqui_..t          10       Center
tub-Total                  54
2. "bhenteo        R
Weik-E     Noah.        10    a) Workshop at CY pemeored
iood Ihohanice          20       by CTA                                        CTZ
lob-Total                  30    b) Th.oriael at the Center                       Trainlng Center
3. Driver.          R
YEa1                    1.e  3   Alredy paid by the admln.                     Administrstli.
Truck.                  55
mmv7y Equ p_ nt         13    Spoueormd by the Gth Ny                          6th Hwy Project
Chufdleur/luteepreter   I    Project
Bub-Total                  87                                      212
4. Eleetriclans     T            a) Prac. Trg. at 0W                              UTZ
mrtJbt                  13    b) Theoretical at Center                         Trainiovg Center
Bub-Totel                  15
5. Ati,!cL!  S
=-_-iiiet 83i_          22    a) Prc. Trg. at M                                CT
Cle o f 16-I6           22    b) Theoretical at Center                         Training Center
Clase of 37-89          22
Bub-Total                  6
*     VIl ale I__tl  1 
Uierktite Foreme 1
mnpervimors
- Cateory I       a    10    Durationl    4 weeks               300
Ctegory It           10    Duration: 4 weeks                 300
- Catgory III           10    Duratioln  4 weeks                300          6tb lvy Project
--eretarile o          30    Diratlees 9 moe.  1ibm           6.500
Accoentnta        a      5    Durations 7T son. Ilrembi       2.660
Storemee          T    10    Duratilo: 3 mo. Kgali              *U
Tch. IKntructorm  T      6    Duratins 12 moe. Ugll          1.080
Bub-Total                  81                                   11.821
7. Senior Excutive
Director General P       I    Duratlent 2 mom. abroad
Dlrector Works
huapector       P       2    Duratioln  2 mon. abroad                         6th Iby Project
Section Chiefs   P       6    Duration: 2 mon. abroad
magemout         Rt      5   Ouratleio   3 mo. abroad
Executives Trg
Center          1       2    Duration. 12 mos. abroad
Sub-Total                  16                                   42.210
S. TECEUCAL AS3T.
9. tupatriate Experts
Training Coor.          I
Trg. Conductors         1                                                      6th Iwy Project
Peroenl Vgt. Trg        I
Supervisor Trg          I
la. Pbeh. Trg           I
Comaultante             3
Tech. Aet.                    Tech. AMit. KDAUNDP 80 *hm
Tech. Aet.              4     GTZ                                             GTZ
Sub-Total                                                      172.000
Equip_nt Coets                                                  14.000            6th Hwy Project
79.000           GTZ
Tranportatlon  proj Snsp coste                                  6.800            6tb Buy Project
Sub-Total I                      6th Uighway Project           155.043            Stb Hwy Project
Sub-Total II                     CIZ                           171.000            CTZ
CUD TOTAL                                                      32S 0m
Legens   I - lafroeh-r; T - Training;   P - profeeioal Development
fl, Jun  172  1985           CUZ - Crman Tech. set.



- 55 -                        ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 4
RWANDA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Terms of Reference for Management of Road Maintenance Operatione
ObJective.
1.        The RD has still limited qualified and experienced personnel and
will be assisted by experts to help carry out the force account
maintenance program. The technical assistance would be provided for
management, administration and supervision of the road maintenance
brigades. The role of the experts would consist in particular in: (i)
ensuring that the overall maintenance activities are properly programmed
and executed; (ii) providing on the job training of Rwandan higher level
staff; and (Ili) ensuring that appropriate technology choices are made In
terms of equipment/labor mix.
Composition of the Teams
2-                                                               mn-years
(a)  highway engineer mission chief                          4
(b)  three road maintenance and construction experts        12
(c)  Spare parts store specialist                            3
(d)  General and cost accounting expert                      4
23
Qualifications
3.        Each expert should have:
(a)  fluency in spoken and written French;
(b) training experience in his field in order to facilitate
professional and technical instruction;
(c) work experience in a developing country; and
(d) education commensurate with the position to be occupied.
Particular qualifications and functlons of the team members are described
below:
Highway Engineer Mission Chief
4.        He should have experience in operation and maintenance of roads
and road equipment. He should have at least ten years' experience in road
administration, construction and maintenance, as well as in budgeting and



- 56 -                       ANNEX 2.5
Page 2 of 4
cost price accounting. Experience In labor-intensive road maintenance
techniques would also be required. His duties will Includet
i) coordinating mission activities and management of road
maintenance and workshop operations; and
ii) assistance in administrative training.
Road Maintenance and Construction Experts (3)
5.        They should be road engineers or senior road work foremen with at
least five to ten years' experience in the field. In particular they
should have extensive knowledge of and experience in (a) road malntenance
and construction and maintenance of equipment; (b) use of heavy equlpment;
(c) various elements of road construction management, contract and
specifications; and (d) soils engineering. They should assist in:
(i) coordinating the activltles of the brigades;
(ii) planning, execution, and supervision of works; and
(iii) providing technical, on-site training of the personnel.
Spare Parts Store Specialist (1)
6.        He should have a: least five years' professional experience in
stores management. In addition his qualification should include:
(a) knowledge of both diesel and gasoline engines;
(b) knowledge of equipment used in road maintenance operations;
(c) basic knowledge of vehicle electrical systems.
He should assist in preparing bidding documents and bid analysis; the
selection of spare parts; and, in general carry out in-house trainlng in
inventory control, distribution and warehouse management.



- 57 -                   ANNEX 2.5
Page 3 of 4
General and Coot Accounting Expert
7.        The purpose of the Technical Assistance in Accounting is to
assist RB In maintaining (1) General accounts for the expenditures financed
by IDA; and (11) Cost accounting of the actlvitles of brigades engaged in
road maintenance.
8.        The RB set up, in early December 1984, in the Administrative and
Accounting Division, an Accounting Unit in order to keep accounts of all
expendltures under RB's Investment budget, and separate accounts for the
Fifth Highway Project. The Accounting Unit has also started with a cost
accounting system for the entire activities of the brigades engaged in road
maintenance. The Accounting Unit has to continue with these
responsibilities under the Sixth Highway Project.
9.        Qualifications:  The Accounting Expert should have experience in
general and cost accounting. He should have at least five years experience
of which some spent in developing countries. An experience in cost
accounting of Public Works, and a familiarization with financial analysis
of project appraisal would be an advantage. Fluency in written and spoken
French, and the ability to communicate ideas are also required.
10.       Principal Tasks: The principal tasks of the Accounting Expert
would be the following:
Ci) reviewing present general and cost accounting systems of RB, and
making recommendations for accounting procedures or measures
aimed at establishing internal control systems to safeguard RB's
assets engaged in road maintenance and contributing to cost
reduction;
(ii) maintaining project accounts for the expenditures financed by
IDA, which are to be audited on an annual basis by an independent
auditor as required by IDA;
(ii)  establishing cost accounting with regard to all RB's expenditures
and operations for road maintenance activities. Accounting
procedures used in this respect are also subject to the review by
an auditor on an annual basis;
(iv) monitoring the use of funds assigned to road maintenance through
either Govercment or Co-financiers;
(v) develop a cost/performance system which will generate information
to measure productivity of RB's staff engaged in road
malntenance;



- 58 -                   ANNEX 2.5
Page 4 of 4
(vi) preparing monthly and annual financial statements, including
operating and coat accounting statem_nts. All the statemmnts
mentioned above, with all the corresponding supporting documents,
will be subject to the review by the auditor.
11.       Work Program:  Following a one-month familiarization period, the
Accounting Expert shall draw up a detailed work program for the first
semester of hls assignment. This work program is to be established each
subsequent semester, reviewed by IDA and approved by Government.
Training
12.       The accounting Expert will work closely with his Rwandese
counterparts and ensure that they are making gradual and positive progress
and will be able to carry out the various tasks of the Accounting Unit.



- 59 -                   ANNEX 2.6
Page 1 of 4
RWANDA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Study of Communal Roads
Outline Terms of Reference
The objective of the study would be to identify the most suitable
ways of improving and maintaining rural roads within the general context of
the Communes' responsibility for their infrastructures, keeping in mind
that the works must reflect local needs In support of existing and
immediate foreseeable economic and social activities and must be based on
low cost solutions to the maximum reasonable extent using locally available
resources (including labor, local materials, self-help activities and
revenues from locally collected taxes). The proposed strategy must be
sustainable and replicable. The study should not endeavor to go beyond
what is needed to carry out pilot activities which will evenutally lead to
more permanent Institutional arrangements and procedures.
It is envisaged that the study be carried out in three
overlapping phases:
Phase 1:   Data collection, Inventory, identification of needs
aad definitions.
Phase II: Formulation of an approach for improving and
maintaining communal roads.
Phase III: Definition of a program of work in selected communes
for improvement and maintenance of communal roads and
a plan of action for its implementation.
The study would be conducted in close collaboration with the
ministries of Interior, Public Works and Energy and other line ministries
as relevant, with the Communal Development Fund and selected communes.
The activities would comprise inter alia, the following:
Phase I
Ca) identify four to five representative communes with potential
for undertaking road improvement and maintenance for each of
these:



- 60 -                    ANNEX 2.6
Page 2 of 4
(1)    based on exltlng air photos or topographical maps,
prepare a communal map in scale 1:25,000 (or other
scale if more convenient) showing communal boundaries,
existing towns/villages/settlements, land usage,
markets, administrative centers, health centers,
schools, sociaj centers, recreational facilities,
water eupply systems, roads, tracks, trails, and
important paths;
(il)    local government structure (staff, their qualifica-
tions and salaries), local taxas collected and
tax potential if fully collected, budgets for '83, '84
and "85, expenditure by line Item, Identification of
works carried out, their cost and method of execution;
(iii)    works carrled out with self-help, the effectiveness of
this and quality works, total approximate man days
spent per year for all works and by work category;
(lv)    communal budgetary procedures and overall financial
situation;
(v)    assistance to communes provided by the Ministry of
Public Works and Energy as well. as other line
ministries;
(vi)    existing plans for further development commune
Infrastructure;
(vii)   based on a condition survey of existing roads,
Identify typical deficiencies hampering accessibility
and corresponding typical (selective) improvement/
maintenance activities.
(b) carry out a brief review of the Communal Development Fund
(CDF), its procedures, operations, and accomplishments in
light of its charter, and assess its possible role in the
context of maintenance/improvement of communal roads; and
(c) review procedures of Ministry of Public Works and Energy in
their assistance to communes as well as those of other
ministries which assist the communes



- 61 -                    ANNEX 2.6
Page 3 of 4
Phase II
(a) considering deficiencies Identified in Phase I, propose
technical, institutional and financial arrangements for
maintaining communal roads paying particular attention to the
following areas:
(1)    at the commune level:
-   planning of infrastructure development and
maintenance;
-   implementation of infrastructure improvements and
maintenance;
-   budgetary and taxation measures and procedures;
-   staffing and staff training needs;
-   local resource mobilization in general (taxes,
self-help, local materials, local skills, other)
-   role of self-help and how to make it effective;
-    role of small local contractors (tacherons)
-    availability of local labor, either self-help or
contractors.
(ii)  at the level of CDF and possibly other financial
institutions:
-   the overall role of CDF;
-   the possible role of other financing;
-   CDF procedures for assisting communes financially
and and technically;
-   CDF staffing needs including need for attaching
technical cell to CDF   (terms of reference for
which should be elaborated and technical
assistance needs identified).
(iii) at the level of central government ministries:
-   the nature and level of minimum outside assistance
required;



- 62 -                    ANNEX 2.6
Page 4 of 4
-   tha role of ministrlao including  &ietr±'d of
Iaterior, Public Works and Knhrgy, Agriculture,
etc.;
-   staff secondment from those ministries to
communes, other technical assistance to comunes;
-   guidellnes for collaboration between ministrias
and communes.
Phase III
For at least three of tho communes for which baslc data have been
collected a three year work program for road Improvement and maintenance
would be formulated Including cost estimates and the accompanylng proposals
in respect of institutional arrangements for implementation and
collaboration with CDF and the central ministries. The work program should
be defined in reasonable detail for the first year, in outline only for tho
subsequent two years. The program should take Into consideration all
areas menttoned under Phases I and II. It should allow for experimentation
and demonstration in order to mature and gradually lead to replication in
more communes. Thus a tentative target would be that 18 months after the
start of iwplementation an additional 5 communes would participate in the
program and after a further 18 months this figure could increase to 15
communes.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2.7
Page 1 of 3
SITE KIWEAT PROJECT
Consultant Service. In Transort Plannimg
Draft Outline Terms of Reference for a Transportation Expert at the
Ministry of Transport and Communications
Oblectives
The Ministry or Transport and Communications has prime resonsibi-
lity for the utilization of the domestic transport infrastructure aad for
questions relating to Rwanda's external transport connectionas. There is
scope for significant reductions in the direct and indirect costs of inter-
national transport and consequently the Ministry needs to strengthen Its
capacity to formulate measures and policies aimed at alleviating the later-
national transport problems.
The Fifth Nighway Project provided flancing for the services of
a Transportation Expert at the Ministry of Public Works to strengthen the
project analysis and planning capability of the Ministry. The position was
filled in late 1984 and assistance would need to be continued till 1989 to
achieve the institution bullding objectives. The Transport Planner at the
Ministry of Transport and Communications will therefore work part of his
time with the Planning unit of the Hinsitry of Public Works. An important
aspect of the expert's work will be to train the counterparts ln this unit.
QualffIcations
The expert should be familiar with different transport modes and
with their operational characteristics and costs. He should have
experience of project analysis, traffic forecasting, modal distribution of
traffic and transport in transit. Part of his professional experience
should have been gained in developing countries. Fluency in written ard
spoken French and the ability to communicate ideas is reqtvred.
Principal Tasks
The principal tasks of the expert would be the following:
(i)  establish a data base on costs, transit times, transport and
transit regulations, imports and exports and other relevant in-
dicators relating to international transport;
(ii)  forecasting Import and export volumes and assessing the transport
capacity of the different modes and routes;
(iii)  forecasting external transport flows by route and mode;



- 64 -                        ANNEX 2.7
Page 2 of 3
(iv) assesslng the impact on overall external transport costs of pro-
poaed Investments and masures withIn Rwanda or In the transit
countries;
(v) preparing recommendations for pollcies or measures aimed at re-
ducing international vransportation costs;
(vi) helping to prepare Governmant's positlon for negotiatlng with
transit countries on the development and utlllzation of lnterna-
tional transport routes;
(vii)  followlng developments in the area of transit facilitation in
neighboring countries and in other parts of the world;
(viii) prepare recommendations in the light of experience and procedures
existing in other parts of the world, designed to eliminate or
reduce the problems affectlng transit trafflc;
('x)   help prepare Government's position for negotiating with transit
countries regarding transit facilitation;
(x,   reassessing the role of ONATRACOM, STIR and AIR RWANDA and pre-
paring proposals to permit these companies to better achieve
their objectives.
(xi)   assist in preparing an updating, every year, the forward expendi-
ture program for the highway sector covering both investment and
maintenance, and taking into consideration the economic and
financlal feasibility of projects and programs;
(xii)   preparing draft terms of reference for economic studies and moni-
toring their progress;
(xiii)   analyzing road user taxation and road user costs by vehicle
category and preparing proposals with the view of Introducing a
regime of
appropriate road user charges;
(xix)   preparing proposals for mobilizing additional resources to fund
highway maintenance programs;
(xx)   establishing a highway sector data base for systematic analyses;
.br  P _or
The expert shall draw up his work program for each six month
period in consultation with the Ministry of Transport and Communications
and the Ministry of Public Works. Comments received from IDA on the work
program would be taken into consideration in its execution.



- 65 -                       NNEX 2.7
Page 3 of 3
Trainin
The expert will work closely with his counterparts. Their train-
Ing wvil be an important part of his services.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a-L -                                      m.a~.
0rze                       tKl'S     wI                                        Wig             srs      L'                                                    3lqsl
01I             WI                                                            11' 0I'1 at               1               eOWn                   l        II  l
WI                                                                                             WI       Irew00.9                                          WflN    _
OrLi  WI                                     liL              WI       WI              OrLi                           m~~~~~~~~~P   ~l t  nIinJme 1 H
PM__1ne-1105        1       *|&&w"lii
u's                - aK               a's     WI    ie    ar          - Ws   1a                  - Ww           ale    "P                        IS l- I
5fg                                                                                                             5-    n 0
nra                                                                               .r:      Wi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
in                                       we                                              ma.m,u I.g.dsr      PJSMUI
Ws                                                                                         0519~~~~~~~~~.5W  WIR                 spmn
.an                                                                                    WC                               - g Pr *.5            I     .m 4 Iw*.1-
we                                                                      910~~~~~~~~~wew          are      mal                      sp*a" IAin.M
W.                                                                                                               w       " 11-e       3- 1DaSP
WI,                                                                                                                      Oro
(I.e                                                                        11.5    01.5~~~~~~~~~~_    mIU_                     'A
ine                                                                                    e.g                               WC                          dIl
Z11  1.5        WI                        WI                               01I 5               'U'  l     _*1_ 1Min13A
*f.0                                                         05                        "we                       are    wre                            *-j
tee
iV0                                                                      00.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  r     3we    ire--                Snu~im, mIlISDA
£1.5  an                                                                                   lfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a"i  I".  mIee III  -Iuaaamu
'Mume'qqJs 1.1 -i
f WI                                                              3.5WI
are ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l    .uaq.   m                                                       *I1u11
*n.                                                          wem                                                          eaq                   .am'm
aa'U                                                                                                             WIW IWE I                     ^         l l"
U-dIr                                                                                                                      uui ua m  *g1 u11
AL'I                                                                                                             WIr     Wt                   R  i kitelil- aSE
n wt
ire-    1|-U-                                                                                                                     WI wet  1nf
WI                                                           an                                         en               WI              "a"           V114111  W  I  U
all                                                           WIIre                                              c       all                        ~ a1 6.  WI  W
bp1ID111 '1.14 -1 ,,.,       1
|1'S                                                                                n b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rl   g
WL                                                                                                                       WS.A"vv , I 11 110ed.  j  U     a
WI  WI  so's.uw   m11eb   '
VWa      do      Wm         eM     VIMw    da       IN        W1m          Atli~q dg gU   , %r*   I %PM    lin   pm
elm                                       -14                                         '6q L4
-iliAc mm
n   91u -e
- 99 -



- 67 -
ANNEX 2.9
Page I of 3
RWANDA
SIXTH HRGHV   PROJECT
As Programninu and MonitorIpA of Maintenance Program
1.          The principal aim of the annual and ouarterly programming and
monitoring scheme is to Increase the efficiency of RB's operations.  The
preparation of annual workprograms will be undertaken simultaneously with
the annual budget exercise. Programs will be finalized upon deetermination
of the final budget.   Execution will be monitored on a quarterly basis.
The programmming and monitoring will be based, inter alia, on the follow-
ing.
Per uent Road Condition Inventory
2.         The permanent road condition inventory will permit to determine
the priority works to be included In the following year's workprogram of
each brigade and unit and to schedule the works during the year.  The In-
ventory will also form the basis for monitoring the quality of the works
carried out.
Activities
3.        The main activities to be programmed/monitored include:
-  paved road maintenance (m2)
- gravelling (03)
-  spot improvements - earth works (m3)
-  surface grading (km)
- manual maintenance (km)
-  manual maintenance (m3 of selective material)
-  culvert maintenance (units)
-  bridge maintenance (units)
Inputs Required
4.         The inputs required/used to achieve the activity targets by bri-
gade or unit include:
-  personnel (by qualification)
-  equipment (units and utilization)
-  fuel (liters)
-  spare parts (FRW)
- materials (m3 or tons)



-68-                    ANKX 2.9
P ti 2 of 3
stf eoCmm Idlaatteu
5.         ff iciency indicators will include availability rates (in 1) and
te.ilization rates (in hours or km) of major equipment categories.,/
- graders
- bulldozers
- trucks
- pick-ups
- loaders
The combination of Input and output Indicators will also provide measures
of productivity and unit costs.
_         Indticators measuring workshop activity would be:
- repairs by maj or type
- overhauls by major type
a spare parts consumption (FRi)
Traiaim.
7.        Main indictors of training would be:
(1) standard training sessions
- number of trainees
- average length of training
(ii) special training saminars
- number of trainees
- average length of training
Shamr RepoDrt
IL        A sumary report shall accompany the above Indicators and include,
Inter alia;
- key Information which is not provided by the quantiltative
indicators;
-  infomation on unforseen events which have a bearing on the Imple-
mentation of the program;
- explanation as to deviations from the targets set and description
of the corrective measures which have been taken or are being
prepared;
- information on key staff changes in RB; financial information on
the execution of the budget or on budget revisimx.
I7  During the Fourth Highway Project, when the equipment was now,
availability was on average 85X. Availability is not expected to be higher
In the future. Utilization of available equipment, however, would be
higher than in the past.



- 69 -                  ANNX 2.9
Page 3 of 3
D. Project ReportlM ISuiremnts
Prom.e. Reports
1.        The Borrower will prepare Progress ReporLs on the elements of the
Project not Included in the quarterly and annual reporting on the implemmn-
tation of the maintenance program and covering:
- physical progress and difficulties encountered
- expected deviatlons from lmplementation schedule
- costs of the component
- financial situation of the Credit
- status of covenants
Project Completion Report
2.        The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR), to
be submitted to the Association not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date.
3.        the primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce the self-evalua-
tion capacity by the Borrower and the Association's operating departments
and to facilitate dissemination of lesons learned through the project. The
PCR will examine and assess:
(a) the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their res-
pective obligations under the Credit Agreement and whether the
Association could have been more helpful;
(b) the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal, and whether the original expecta-
tions were realistic; and
(c) whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could have
been done better.
7.        For those components of the project for which a rate of return
was estimated during appriasal, the PCR should contain a new estimate of
the return the project is now likely to yield and analyze the reasons for
physical or economic deviations. However, the new rate of return calcula-
tlon should be as simple as possible under the circumutances and should ab-
sorb only a minor portion of the time devoted to the preparation of the
PCR. An annex with the relevant information supporting this analysis
should be Included.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3.1
RWAUM
Sixth HigKWSay Prolect
Cost of Force Aceount Maintenance Activities
Total      Annual
Cost       out  t    Cost/Km
(FRW '000)    (km)    (FRN '000)
Routine Maintenance Paved Roads       89,035         350       254
(Brigade)
Regravelling (Brigade)               120,917          60      2015
Grading (Brigade)                     40,000        1000        40
Routine Maintenance
Earth/Gravel Roads                 224,538        3159        71



- 71 -                        ANNEX 3.2
RWANDA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PRWOECT
Vehicle Operatinag Costs-1985
(FRW/kin, not of taxes)
ROAD CATEGORY
VEHICLE                             IMPROVED
TYPE           PAVED ROAD         EARTH ROAD         EARTH ROAD
Car                     37.8               49.1               72.0
Pick-up                 39.6               50.0               73.9
Medium Truck            101.3             128.5              194.6
Heavy Truck             164.6             205.5              311.2
Bus                    135.0              167.2              250.7
Average Traffic Composition
VEHICLE TYPE
ROAD                                      MEDIUM            HEAVY
CATEGORY          CAR         PICK-UP        TRUCK            TRUCK
Paved Road           19            55            18                8
Improved Earth       21            49            26                4
Road
Average Vehicle Operating Costs
(FRW/VA, net of taxes)
Paved Road                   61.7
Improved Earth Road          77.3    J



- 72 -
AN= 3.3
S!xth Ijbw Prolect
1ax1c K EValu±in
Avrrqp
Trafflc      Traffic                 WC SavLug
Frat Yew      Gzuth    Cut/r          Ftzt Yew
.s                           VhD)Z                   (DW '000)    (                ERR
360          8         3810           14.3           76
KWae -iihno                  390          8         2300           12.2          100
htare-Akai~'uu              32D           8         250           12.2            so
230          8         2015           10.3           89
W25          8         2D15           11.0          100
20D          8         2D15          10.3            75
CyrG-atuibo                  150          8         2D15           10.3           51
W  - wba-Kiraz             135          8         2015           10.3           44
bixIz-rau                    180          8         2015           10.3           66
Ng 1 r r SI M-N*.Smina       210          8         2015           10.3           80
Karot        a                90          8         2015           9.7            36
NymblIeziin-RIG              145          8         2015           10.3           49
KtniLgL-ftdzp-ftidabt?a   80             8         2015           9.7            30
lb 1    xhwvte_dezf          140          8         1515           9.7            45
Ci=t d8 Laca                 90           8         1515           9.7            22



- 73 -                    ANNEX 3.4
RWANDA
Sixth Highway Project
Economic Evaluation Routine Maintenance
Grading
Economic Cost of Gradlng Cycle                 FRW 40,000/km
Average VOC                                    FRW 77.3/km
Reduction In VOC                               FRW 7.0/ka
Average Trafflc                                170 vpd
Economic Rate of Return                    :  100%
Routine Maintenance of Paved Roads
Length of Network   (1985)                     627 km
(1989)                    901 km
Total Annual Traffic                           159.4 million veh/km
Average daily Traffic                          485 vpd
Average VOC                                    FRW 617/km
Reduction In VOC                               FRW 0.6/ku
Average Maintenarce Costs                      FRW 259,000/km
Increase in Maintenance Costs                  FRW 77,700/km
Economic Rate of Return                        62.4Z
Routine Maintenance of Earth/Gravel Roads
Length of Network                              3,159 km
Total Annual Traffic                           103.8 million vchfkm
Average Daily Traffic                          90 v.p.d.
Average VOC                                    FIW 77.3/km
Reduction in VOC                               FRW 0.7/km
Average Maintenance Costs                      FRW 71,000/km
Increase In Maintenance Costs                  21,300/km
Economic Rate of Return                        71.0X



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.5
SBXTE  EIAT  PMOJU
Econu l       a     of RecomstructIon of the
ll eI-tts  Romd
Economlc Cost of Construction (FRW milllon)
Entire Road                                  2,501.8
Section I                                       350.0
Section II                                    1,566.2
Section III                                     585.6
Crossing mrsch In section III  Alt 1           436.5
Alt 2          238.1
Cost of constructlon supervison                127.1
Cost of Resurfacing every 7 years (FRW milllon/k)           3.1
Annual Maintenance cost saving (FRW 1000/km):
Section I                       60.0
Section II                      83.6
Section III                     62.0
Residual Value:    60Z of construction cost
Traffic 1988 (pvd)             Lilht Vehicle  Medium Truck  Beavy Truck
Section 1               2812             420            92
Section II                173             32            92
Section III                76             13            92
Traffic Growth (Zp.a.)
1988-1995                  7               7             6
1996-2002                   7              7             -
VOC Savings (FRW/Veh/km)
in first year
Section I                 6.0           16.1           26.2
Section II               14.1           37.6           61.0
Section III             10.1            26.8           43.6
.



ANNEX 4
RVIANDA
SIXTH HIGIWAY PROJECT
Related Documents *ad Data Available
in Project File
Documents Relating to Transport
- Etude generale des Transports Interieurs au Rwanda - July 1984
Documents Relatigg to the Prolect
- Etude du Programme D'ensemble du Secteur des Routes 1985-1989.
- Etude pour la Refection de la Route KigaliGatuna - Juin 1985
- Etude Technique pour la Refection de la Route Kigali-Catuna
Franchissement du Marais B - Septembre 1985
- 4 ewe Project Routier IDA
Deuxieme Phase du Projet Entretien Routier, Rapport Final
Kigali, Decembre 1984



RWANJDA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ofgonizaotkn of the Road Branch
I shat 1
P.cc WCASI
IG6erffr l
L)epcrtr-4ni ~~~I  xwtcf 
I is ;r d                                                                                                 jcrqm 1  _  I   I 
Leepo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pe rem                 Ce
t n@neta 8                                               9-Mef
7ZL,:b1                                                                                        q  
IS~~~~~~~d.~~~~~&Iz 



- 77 -
- __ _
~-w- 1--- - -
-             I          I '
. iL= I l
.~~~~6 _. lFi
_~~i! Ez k n  t0tt 1 
.   ~~~~~~1 }]3      XXX   ]
_-I
i II lilil I §



it   is   is   i,   ic  'k    A @                                 r i                                        A
|   As)   la N n a n, e          ;                       t   > . h                         1                       1                   1
a    S  ~~~   U  a a        4    aWu 
VINtZNt1 u {~~~~(2                                                       N                                           1 D.      I2fi>ffL.5f
V~~~~~V
1 <                                                           3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WftCMAO d
> v },/ f) tf = ) __ uatob.,owVw,Xie.&ries,y,X,>>o~a*0 .............................................
v a N v   n                                                 IOrOW8d AYMH)IH HJXIS
-  =/J                                                                                 V a ONVM I
.m m.m  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



\    SX    IQNlasnfl9  *                            -
_ _ _    0   ,      _  ,        B                                                                ,4\
ION n tineW                                     .
f       8            z 2  sq q          wN nblVZ
I   Bpv -         S                  5
V I N V Z N  , I                                                                                cwv-Js   0 __.0',-    jNO _U  I  .0



