REDIT NUMBER 1641 RW
OFIFFICIAL
OCU MENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Sixth Highways Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         k va               , t  1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1641 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      C     L. \r                  , 1986,
between the RWANDESE REPU'BLIC (the Borrower) and the INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and p:iority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreements has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Special Facility
for Sub-Sahara Africa (the African Facility), established by
the Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 of the Executive
Directors of the Association to provide additional assistance
towards the financing of the Project and by an agreepient of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as
Administrator of the African Facility (the African Facility
Credit Agreement) is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to fourteen million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000); and
(C)    the Borrower intends to contract from the Danish
International  Development   Agency,  the  Federal   Republic  of
Germany,  the   French  Republic, the   Arab  Bank  for  Economic
Development of Africa, the European Development Fund, the Kuwait
Fund, the United Nations Development Fund and the World Food
Program additional loans and grants to assist in financing the
Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
between the Borrower and such nations and agencies; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the following modifications (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: the second sen-
tence of Section 2.03 is deleted.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Ministry" means the ministry of the Borrower respon-
sible for public works;
(b) "Road Branch" means the Direction G6n6rale des Ponts et
Chauss6es, a part of the Ministry; and
(c) "Special Account A" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the name of the Ministry in dollars a
special account (Special Account A) in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, Special Account A shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or it; the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1996 and ending November 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes cf Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through E.1
of the Project through the Road Branch and Part E.2 through the


﻿-4-
Ministry of Transport and Communications with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
economic, administrative and technical practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Prior to October 31 in each year during the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its comment an up-to-date schedule of proposed
road construction works for the following four year period
together with its proposed program of expenditures in the road
sector for such period, based on sound financial and feasibility
criteria and shall take the Association's views into account in
the carrying out of such programs.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1986, make
such organizational arrangements as shall be necessary to provide
for the strengthening of its planning in the transport sector and
for the formulation and carrying out of transport policies.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
by June 30, 1986 its prcposals for financing out of its own funds
progressively increasing proportions of its expencitures for
recurrent road maintenance and shall exchange views thereon with
the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, through the Road
Branch, furnish to the Association by October 31 of each year
during the carrying out of the Project the proposed work program
of the Road Branch for road maintenance during the coming year,
shall take into account the Association's views in carrying out
such program and shall cause the Road Branch to monitor the
carrying out of such program pursuant to procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Road Branch to carry out
productivity and cost analyses of all its force account activi-
ties.


﻿-5-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through the Ministry,
furnish to the National Bank of Rwanda each year the estimate of
requirements for foreign exchange for the Borrower's share of
financing of road maintenance activities in the coming year and
shall make such arrangements, as shall be necessary, to ensure
the availability as and when needed of such foreign exchange.
Section 3.08. The proposals concerning communal roads to be
formulated under Part E.1 of the Project shall be furnished to
the Association by December 31, 1987.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project and the road maintenance
operations of the Road Branch and of the other departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof and shall cause the Road Branch to keep
separate records and accounts in respect of expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the separate accounts of the Road Branch
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
including Special Account A, audited for each
fiscal year in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
ti.ae to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or from the Special Account A were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Closing
Date and in any event until the completion of the
audit for the fiscal year in which the last dis-
bursement from the Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exa-
mine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts be included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contain,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that the accounting unit of
the Roads Branch (i) maintain such accounts as shall be necessary
to permit proper cost accounting and the determination of unit
costs and (ii) keep separate accounts reflecting expenditures of
the Road Branch under its investment budget.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely that, subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have been


﻿-7-
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. Th. following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has taken steps satisfactory to the
Association for the limitation of the dimensions and weights of
vehicles using its highways and roads and for the enforcement of
such limitations;
(b) the Road Branch has strengthened its Personnel Bureau
by the appointment of two staff members specialized in personnel
management;
(c)  the Road Branch has established a Training Unit and a
Training Coordination Committee; and
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
African Facility Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.


﻿Section 6.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
public works is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works and Energy
B.P. 24
Kigali, Rwanda
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINITRAPE                           04-BUB KGL
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day- and year first above
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment, spare         6,000,000           100% of foreign
parts, Laterials,                           expenditures,
and supplies                                90% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2) Consultants'             2,900,000           100%
services;
training
(3) Unallocated              1,800,000
TOTAL             10,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in its program of roads maintenance and reconstruction and in
implementing a comprehensive program of training in the highways
sector in order to improve maintenance and construction planning,
strengthen the capacity of the Road Branch for administering the
road network and reduce the cost of road transport.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Labor-intensive routine maintenance works on about 3,200 km
of earth and gravel roads; patching and resealing of about 600 km
of paved roads, and repair and selective resurfacing of about 130
km of paved roads; periodic maintenance of about 500 km of earth
and gravel roads, including regravelling and selective improve-
ment of the roads and of drainage facilities; and maintenance and
repair of bridges and the purchase of equipment, spare parts and
tools for the foregoing.
Part B:
1.   Resurfacing of the Cyangugu-Bugarama Road including rehabi-
litation of about 500 m thereof.
2.   Selective  improvement   and   regravelling  works   on  the
Rubengera-Ntendezi Road and the road circling Lakes Bulera and
Ruhondo, including drainage improvement and limited realignments
and grade improvements.
Part C:
Reconstruction of Sections I and II of the Kigali - Gatuna
Road, including the drainage system and base course, and with a
triple surface treatment.


﻿- 13 -
Part D:
The carrying out of a comprehensive training program for
staff, including mechanics, equipment operators, drivers, work-
site managers and supervisors, office clerical staff, warehouse-
men, higher level technical, administrative and financial staff,
and vocational training managers and trainers.
Part E:
1.   The formulation of proposals concerning the improvement and
maintenance of communal roads; the strengthening of planning
capabilities in the road sector, including the preparation and
annual revision of balanced expenditure programs.
2.   Carrying out of studies for the formulation of measures and
policies to reduce the costs of international transport.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
500,000 dollars which is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that Special Account A has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdraw-
als to replenish Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of one or more requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in Special
Account A such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account A at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account A such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account A with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments which have been made out of Special Account A for
eligible expenditures and which have been justified by the


﻿- 15 -
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account
A for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to para-
graph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account A shall      be
made by the Association when the first of the following situa-
tions arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association
and of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in Special Account A as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expen-
ditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A was (i) made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 16 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account A (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment.   No further deposit by the Association into Special
Account A shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit
or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Materials, equipment, tools, spare parts and supplies shall
be grouped wherever practicable in bulk lots of at least $75,000
equivalent in value for the purpose of inviting bids or quota-
tions.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works included in Part A of the Project may be carried out
by the Borrower under force account.
2.   Materials, equipment, tools, spare pa%.ts and supplies which
cannot be bulked as provided in paragraph A.3 of this Schedule
may be procured on the basis of the applicable procedures of the
Borrower for competitive bidding or inviting competing quota-
tions, provided that the aggregate value of such goods shall not,
without the prior approval of the Assocation, exceed the equi-
valent of $1,000,000.
3.   Proprietary spare parts may be procured by direct negotia-
tion with their suppliers.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of Special Account
A, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two


﻿- 18 -
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of Special Account A in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of Special Account A, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in preparing bidding docu-
ments, in the evaluation of bids, in the supervision and coor-
dination of works, in the carrying out of works under force
account, in carrying out and coordinating the training program,
in carrying out the studies included in the Project and in
strengthening planning capabilities in the highway sector, the
Borrower shall employ engineering, management and training
consultants and experts, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants and experts shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            a day o
198.
FOR SECRETARY


