Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6554-KZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$180 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
MAY 9, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Tenge
1 Tenge             =      100 Tyins
Period Average             End of Period
(Tenge per US dollar)
1993
November                                4.69                       4.70
December                                5.82                       6.31
1994
January                                 9.19                      10.71
February                               11.48                      11.58
March                                  17.52                      19.94
April                                  26.25                      29.92
May                                    38.52                      40.73
June                                   42.02                      43.29
July                                   44.92                      45.30
August                                 45.75                      46.50
September                              47.17                      48.00
October                                48.75                      49.55
November                               51.08                      52.10
December                               53.54                      54.26
1995
January                                55.62                      57.15
February                               58.80                      59.70
March                                  60.57                      61.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
CbC          Case-by-Case
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CEM          Country Economic Memorandum
cIS          Comnmonwealth of Independent States
CMEA         Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EF           Employment Fund
ES           Employment Service
FSU          Forner Soviet Union
FY           Fiscal Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IPFs         Investment Privatization Funds
ISB          International Standard Banking
J-Exim       Japanese Export-Import Bank
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MPP          Mass Privatization Program
NBK          National Bank of Kazakhstan
NPP          National Privatization Program
PICs         Privatization Investment Coupons
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
RAU          Restructuring Advisory Unit
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SPC          State Property Committee
SOEs         State Owned Enterprises
SSP          Small Scale Privatization
STF          Systemic Transformation Facility
TA           Technical Assistance
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN  AND  PROGRAM  SUMMARY    ......................................  i
I.       INTRODUCTION  .............................................. 1
A.       Background .............................................. 1
B.       The Reform  Challenge ....................................... 1
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                                         ..                             2
A.       Macroeconomic Developments .................................. 2
B.       Progress with Structural Reforms ................................ 4
C.       Performance under the Stabilization Program ......................... 8
HI. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM                                                        ..                             9
A.       Principles of Reform   ....................................... 9
B.       The Framework for Enterprise Restructuring ......................... 9
C.       The Instruments of Enterprise Restructuring   ........................  14
D.       The Social Safety Net  ......................................  18
E.   Fiscal Impact ............................................. 19
IV.      THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN  ...........................    20
A.       Rationale for Bank Involvement ................................  20
B.       Loan Description  .             ........................................  22
C.   Procurement ............................................. 23
D.   Disbursement ............................................. 23
E.       Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing   .................. 24
F.       Actions Taken before Board Presentation  .......................... 24
G.       Agreements Reached  ...........                      ............................ 25
H.   Benefits and Risks .                 ........................................ 26
1.       Recommendation   .              ........................................  27
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Letter of Economic Reform  Policies and Policy Matrix
Annex 2:   Selected Economic Indicators
Annex 3:   Project Support to Implementation Capacity
Annex 4:   Key Processing Events
Annex 5:   Status of Bank Group Operations
Map: IBRD No. 23700R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSIMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Kazakhstan
Amount:             US$180 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years, including 5 years grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Objectives:         The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan will facilitate a more rapid and
effective restructuring of the enterprise sector--crucial to both macroeconomic
stabilization and recovery in output. The program supported by this Loan
focuses on steps to eliminate constraints that have been preventing such
restructuring. Major measures are: liberalizing exports, dismantling monopoly
holdings, facilitating entry of firms through land reform and exit of firms
through foreclosure and bankruptcy, accelerating privatization, imposing
financial discipline with isolation for 20 large distressed enterprises, and
strengthening unemployment benefit policy to facilitate labor adjustment.
Description:        The Loan would be available in two equal tranches. Eligible imports are
subject to a standard negative list. Retroactive financing is available to
finance goods imported after February 15, 1995 up to a maximum of US$36
million equivalent.
Benefits:           Restructuring of the enterprise sector is now central to the reform challenge.
Strong policies for enterprise sector restructuring will help support
macroeconomic stabilization, and promote in due course a recovery in output,
without which the incidence of poverty will increase. The Loan would help
sustain minimal import capacity during the period of transition.
Risks:              Main risks are: (i) a continuing delay in resolving transportation bottlenecks,
which hinder the development of Kazakhstan's natural resource potential;
(ii) policy slippage; and (iii) failure to mobilize enough official assistance to
support the reform effort.
Cofinncing:         Cofinancing on a parallel basis may be provided by members of Kazakhstan's
Consultative Group.
Poverty Category:   Poverty-focused; direct impact on poverty limited to unemployment
compensation component.
Map:               IBRD 23700R






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan (the Loan) to the Republic of Kazakhstan for the equivalent of US$180
million in support of a program of structural reforms. The Loan would be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, with a maturity of 17 years, including five years of grace. Parallel cofinancing
is expected from members of the Consultative Group. This operation is consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board of Directors in August 1993 (see paras. 77-79).
2.           The Republic of Kazakhstan joined the IMF on July 15, 1992 and the World Bank on
July 23, 1992. An Economic Report (No. 12856 - KZ) was distributed in July 1994.
PART I. INTRODUCTION
A.           Background
3.           In 1993, Kazakhstan began the implementation of a comprehensive structural reform
program aimed at moving toward a market economy. This program has been supported by a
Rehabilitation Loan (approved in September 1993, Ln. 3649 - KZ) from the World Bank and an upper
credit tranche stand-by arrangement with the IMF (approved in January 1994, following a Systematic
Transformation Facility (STF) arrangement approved in July 1993). Under the program, considerable
progress has already been achieved in price liberalization, financial reforms and privatization. By
comparison, actions on enterprise restructuring, demonopolization and social protection were until
recently lagging behind (see paras. 15-30). Reforms were initially implemented against a background
of rapid inflation and sharply declining GDP (see paras. 8-10, and Table 1, Annex 2: Key Economic
Indicators).
4.           In response to the difficult economic conditions, the Government has been accelerating
the reforms. First, a tightening of financial policies (designed in consultation with the IMF) since the
second quarter of 1994 is already showing signs of success: inflation dropped from around 35 percent
per month in the second quarter of 1994 to 3 percent in April 1995; and industrial production appears
to have bottomed out in the last quarter of 1994. Second, a new "Anti-Crisis Program" was adopted
in July 1994, which lays out a revised package of structural reform measures to be implemented over
the following 15 months. Third, a new Government team was appointed in October 1994 and
confirmed in March 1995 which is providing a fresh impetus to the implementation of that program.
B.           The Reform Challenge
5.           A more rapid and effective restructuring of the enterprise sector is now central to the
reform challenge. Experience in Kazakhstan has shown that the failure to implement enterprise
restructuring has been a dominant source of macroeconomic instability, and has retarded the recovery
in output. Unrestructured enterprises have continuously accumulated losses and arrears: losses of non-
financial enterprises exceeded 20 percent of GDP in 1993, and are estimated to have been similarly



-2-
large in 1994. Past attempts at monetary restraint have repeatedly failed in the face of such enterprise
losses, forcing the authorities time and again into inter-enterprise arrears refinancing exercises,
financed through monetary expansion, the most recent episode being in the Spring of 1994. The result
was spiralling inflation which reached 35 percent monthly during the second quarter of 1994. The
initial macroeconomic targets under the 1994 stand-by arrangement with the IMF were not met and
the program had to be revised. Furthermore, as the ultimate budgetary impact of this and other
"quasi-fiscal" operations became apparent towards the end of 1994, even those revised targets turned
out to have been exceeded. Finally, unrestructured enterprises have not been able to respond to
liberalized market forces, inhibiting the supply response to the reforms.
6.           The Government intends to establish a conducive framework for the restructuring of
the enterprise sector. Efficient price signals in the economy are a pre-requisite. This in turn depends
largely upon improving the trade regime. Eliminating administered pricing and removing restrictions
on imports has not been sufficient to ensure competitive pricing, for two main reasons. First,
Kazakhstan is a land-locked country within the Former Soviet Union (FSU) where border prices are
strongly influenced by FSU prevailing prices (which may diverge from world market prices). Second,
competition has been hampered by export restrictions and monopolistic market structures. Remedying
this problem requires not only the elimination of restrictive export regulations (eg. quotas and
licenses) but also the dismantling of monopolistic structures controlling trade and distribution. Active
dismantling of distribution monopolies is all the more urgent, given that high transport costs in this
enormous country make setting up alternative methods of distribution uneconomic.
7.           In summary, the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) would support the
Government's program to meet this reform challenge. The background to the development of the
program is set out in Part II below, and the program itself is described in Part m. It seeks to achieve
decisive progress for enterprise restructuring in three areas: (i) market development; (ii) strengthening
the two main agents of enterprise restructuring, the private and financial sectors; and (iii)
strengthening social protection. The proposed Loan builds upon the Bank's previous assistance to the
country through the Rehabilitation Loan, and upon the ongoing technical assistance to the privatization
program and financial sector reform. The Loan is part of a comprehensive country assistance
strategy. Critically, this Loan would help set the framework for, and itself be supported by, a
proposed package of institutional strengthening and sector measures in Bank projects including: the
FY95 Finance and Enterprise Development (US$62 million) and Social Protection (US$41 million)
Projects and the FY96 Land Titling Project (US$30 million).
PART II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
A.           Macroeconomic Developments
8.           Prices. Inflation accelerated throughout 1993 and early 1994, to peak at 35 percent
monthly during the second quarter of 1994. It has declined sharply since, to 3 percent a month by
April 1995. This has been in response to the tightening in monetary policy which followed the inter-
enterprise arrears refinancing of April 1994.
9.           The main driving force behind inflation has been the growth in credit to the enterprise
sector, itself driven by rising losses, and subsequent payment arrears, of non-financial enterprises.
Such losses increased by about 10 percentage points of GDP between 1992 and 1993, and were caused



-3-
by: (i) widespread labor hoarding; and (ii) key sectors, primarily agriculture, suffering from the
distortion of liberalized input prices but controlled output prices (see para. 17). Eroded public
confidence in the currency has reinforced the inflationary cycle: the demand for real balances
contracted by 75 percent annually in 1992-93, and again by 50 percent in 1994.
10.          Production. As inflation decelerates, output is showing early signs of recovery, at
least in industry. The decline in GDP had accelerated from -15 percent in 1992 to -25 percent in
1994. Output suffered from a steep fall in investment expenditures, depressed consumption levels,
and cutbacks in defense outlays. The collapse of established supply and marketing arrangements
within the FSU led to the disappearance of sources of inputs for the economy and markets for its
output. Domestic demand has also been depressed by the loss in mid-1993 of Russia's financial
support, which until then had been running at about 10 percent of GDP. Further, the spread of
monopolistic structures has meant that the impact of monetary restriction has fallen more on output
rather than on prices. As stabilization started to take hold, however, industrial output began to creep
back up starting from September 1994.
11.          Public Finances. Fiscal policy came under considerable strain in 1994. The
authorities initially had been successful in reducing the consolidated fiscal deficit from an average of 8
percent of GDP in 1991 to about 1.2 percent of GDP in 1993. This had been achieved by (i)
restoring financial balance to the social security system in 1992; and (ii) considerable retrenchment in
public investment and operation and maintenance expenditures. Regular budgetary revenues initially
had also remained steady. The situation came to a head, however, in 1994 when the overall deficit
shot back to 7 percent of GDP. Two factors were at play. First, revenues dropped abruptly to 17
percent of GDP (from 23 percent of GDP in 1993), as liquidity-strapped' enterprises found it
increasingly difficult to pay taxes. And second, the financing of the "quasi-fiscal" deficit, previously
assumed by the banking system, was transferred, in part at least, to the budget. Over the course of
the year, the latter was made to shoulder an additional and unprogrammed burden equivalent about 7
percent of GDP, arising mainly from the refinancing of inter-enterprise arrears, but also from calls on
government guarantees to enterprises' domestic and foreign borrowing. To offset these unanticipated
charges, regular budget operations, which had been programmed to result in a deficit of 4 percent of
GDP, were brought back into balance (on a cash basis) through drastic expenditure cuts across the
board. Budgetary expenditures (on a cash basis) contracted to 17 percent of GDP over the period
(compared to 25 percent of GDP in 1993), partly through an accumulation of payment arrears.
12.          Money and Credit. The authorities started to tighten credit policy in mid-1994.
Until the breakup of the ruble zone, monetary developments had been determined by Kazakhstan's
participation in that zone. To gain control over its monetary policy, Kazakhstan started on November
15, 1993, issuing its own currency, the "tenge" as the sole legal tender. Measures were also taken to
tighten monetary management. Auctions of NBK credits, first introduced in 1992, saw their
importance grow to about 70 percent of NBK credit in December 1994. The NBK refinance rate has
been aligned with the auction rate, since late 1993; the latter stood at 120 percent at the end of April
1995. But the restrictive impact of these measures was initially eclipsed by the monetary effects of (i)
the rapid build up of foreign reserves (see para. 13); and (ii) the arrears refinancing exercise. As a
result, broad money continued to grow at an annual rate of about 500 percent through 1994 (as it had
since 1992).
'Due to the tightening in credit policy and mounting payment arrears across the economy.



-4-
13.          External Transactions. Payment difficulties caused the collapse of FSU trade to
accelerate after the breakdown of the ruble zone. Both imports and export volumes, which had
already declined by about 30 percent in 1993, contracted by a similar proportion in 1994. The trade
balance deteriorated considerably. It moved from a US$100 million surplus in 1992 to a US$658
million deficit in 1993, due to terms of trade losses experienced in the country's trade with Russia.
Despite the continued contraction in domestic demand, this trade deficit further widened to US$805
million in 1994, as the country's access to export pipelines through Russia was restricted. At the
same time, Kazakhstan accumulated an additional US$559 million in foreign reserves during of 1994.
Total foreign reserves at the end of 1994 amounted to US$1,200 million (equivalent to the value of
approximately four months of imports), consistent with the targets agreed with the IMF.
B.            Progress with Structural Reforms
14.          In spite of the difficult macroeconomic background, there has been satisfactory
progress in implementing the price, privatization, and financial sector reforms laid out in the
Government's Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies of August 1993. The details of this
progress, and its limitations, are reviewed immediately below (paras. 15-30). Given the difficult
initial conditions and the scale of the challenge involved, however, much remains to be done for the
ultimate objectives of these policies to be attained. In particular: (i) a number of impediments to the
operations of markets (quantitative restrictions to exports, monopolistic structures, etc.) have persisted
-- or developed -- and these continue to blur economic signals for enterprise restructuring; (ii) a
relatively easy access to domestic credit or to government guarantees on foreign credit has, until mid-
1994, rendered the need for such restructuring less urgent; and (iii) private sector development is still
in its infancy and has not yet made a visible difference to macroeconomic performance. The
Government's strategy for addressing these problems is a detailed reform program, discussed in Part
III below.
Price and Trade Reforms
15.          Prices. By October 1994, with the liberalization of bread, semolina and animal feed
prices, the authorities virtually completed the elimination of direct administrative pricing and related
consumer subsidies. Only the tariffs charged by public utilities were still fixed administratively
whereas other prices were subject only to anti-monopoly regulations. Under these reforms, the price
of domestic crude oil, for instance has been brought broadly in line with import parity. Despite this
encouraging progress, numerous obstacles still remain to competitive pricing. These derive in large
part from the trade regime and monopolistic structures in production and distribution.
16.          External Trade. By end-1994, some external trade liberalization had taken place,
particularly supported by the unification of the official exchange rate with the currency market rate at
the time of the tenge's introduction (November 1993). Most restrictions on imports had been
removed. For exports, however, reforms were incomplete: (i) the number of items subject to export
quotas had been reduced from about 90' in 1992, to 34 in 1993, and 7 in April 1994. These remaining
items (coking coal, petroleum, natural gas, ferrous alloys, manganese, and non ferrous metals)
however, were some of the country's major exports. From April 1994, the Government allowed the
auctioning and tender of 30 percent of export quotas. Beyond these 30 percent, export rights
remained limited to eleven designated state trading companies; (ii) the number of categories of goods
subject to export licensing has been lowered from 61 in 1993 to 35 in 1994; (iii) export tax rates were
reduced in 1994 to an average of 8 percent, from 15 percent in 1993.



-5-
17.           Domestic Trade. Government control on domestic trade was relaxed, but the role of
other monopolistic structures expanded. In 1994, the Government refrained from establishing "state
needs" outside the agriculture sector; and even in this sector, its purchases were limited to the
procurement of grain in reduced quantities compared to the previous year.
18.           Domestic markets nevertheless remain plagued by commercial monopolistic structures,
protected from foreign competition by high transport and entry costs caused by geography (see para.
6). Between June 1993 and June 1994, the Government created 82 "state holding companies",
"national holding companies", and "state joint stock companies" (hereafter all called holding
companies), to act as trustees for the state in managing (but not owning) the state share in 1,700
subsidiary enterprises. Many of these holding companies constitute local or national monopolies,
molded along the lines of the frmner sector ministries. They engage in cartel activities, cross-
subsidization, market segmentation, or vertical integration. Their role in agriculture and oil is
particularly instructive.
19.           In the agriculture sector, over the last two years, nine holding companies were formed
which in effect control the entire agricultural marketing chain, from the farm gate to the retail outlets.
Whilst liberalized input prices rose toward world market levels, prices paid to farmers continued to be
depressed due to marketing arrangements dominated by monopolistic holdings (for example, Astyk is
the holding monopoly which dominates the market in grain). This divergence in the degree of
liberalization of agricultural input and output prices meant that the domestic terms of trade for
agricultural producers worsened dramatically. For example, between 1990 and 1993, the price of a
tractor in terms of tons of wheat was multiplied by a factor 4 and that of fuel and fertilizers by a
factor 7. Even in 1994, Astyk, the grain monopoly, was paying only about 50 percent of world
market prices (at farm gate) for the purchase of domestically produced grain. This situation
contributed to the continuing decline in agricultural output and to the financial haemorrhagia of the
sector. Dismantling this monopoly is a priority in the liberalization of this sector.
20.           The domestic oil market is also almost completely monopolistic. From the moment
crude oil is imported from Russia, refining and distribution are under the control of two specialized
holding companies. As a result - and despite profit margin regulation - light refined products sell in
Kazakhstan at close to world market levels (but often above border prices), notwithstanding that the
crude used to produce them costs half what it would fetch on world markets. Some import
competition is emerging, but its development is hampered by the huge costs of setting up
transportation and distribution networks. A faster impact on market competitiveness would be
achieved by breaking up the existing holding structures.
Privatization
21.           The Government has begun implementing a three-pronged approach to privatization,
embodied in its "National Privatization Program (NPP) for 1993-95":
(i)           Small Scale Privatization (SSP): This involves the rapid sale of the assets of small
establishments (under 200 employees), such as shops, restaurants, and trucks, through
municipal auctions or tenders against cash and unutilized housing vouchers. A reliable
estimate of the total stock of eligible establishments is not available, but probably
upwards of 30,000. There are specific sub-programs in (a) trucking, involving 20
percent of trucks operated by firms outside agriculture, railways and defense, (i.e.



-6-
about 25,000 trucks out of a national fleet of about 346,000); and (b) wholesale trade,
covering the facilities of the 205 warehouse enterprises.
(ii)          Mass Privatization Program (MPP): medium/large enterprises (200 to 5,000
employees, except farms, non-renewable resources extracting firms, and public
services) are sold as going concerns through voucher auctions. Blocks of shares
ranging from 51 to 90 percent of enterprises' capital are offered to Investment
Privatization Funds (IPFs), in which citizens invest their allocated privatization
investment coupons (PICs). Workers receive 10 percent of the shares, and the
remaining state share (if any) is available for cash sales to strategic investors.
Probably around 2,500 enterprises are eligible for the MPP.
(iii)         Case-by-Case (CbC) privatization for very large/strategic enterprises, typically sold to
strategic (foreign) investors. 180 such firms have been identified.
22.           The National Privatization Program (NPP) has gotten off to good start.2 The small
scale privatization program (SSP) had sold approximately 2,900 establishments and 4,500 trucks in
auctions by the end of 1994. Surveys indicate that, compared with state ownership, privatized
enterprises provide more employment at equal or higher salaries and a greater variety of goods at the
same or lower prices. The mass privatization program (MPP) became operational in 1994. By end-
1994, over 97 percent of the citizens had received their privatization coupons (PICs) and some 80
percent of them had already invested a total of 25 percent of their PICs in 169 Investment
Privatization Funds (IPFs). In.9 auctions since April 1994, IPFs acquired state shares in over 550
enterprises. In the case-by-case (CbC) component of the Program, 3 large transactions have been
completed with large international firms and tenders for consultants to advise SPC in CbC
privatization transactions were issued for 38 further enterprises.
23.           As privatization has been implemented, some weaknesses have appeared in the
program, which will be addressed under the SAL program to help privatization attain its original
objectives. In the SSP, the main issue is the behavior of local administrations. In the absence of a
financial incentive for their cooperation, the local administrations have tended to conceal state
properties under their control, or to place undue profile restrictions on the enterprises being sold.
24.           For the MPP, early evidence points to two potential risks. The first risk is that the
state may retain effective control of the firms: only in 7 percent of the cases did the state offer more
than 51 percent of the shares and only in 60 percent of the cases were all the shares offered actually
sold. The second risk is that existing rules prevent the IPFs from exercising effective governance in
the enterprises in which they acquire a participation, because that participation was limited to 10
percent of any enterprise's capital.
25.           Distinctive problems have emerged in the agricultural sector where, in comparison
with the rest of the economy, initiatives to privatize activities continue to be tentative. Government
policy, adopted in March 1993, was to give each state farm worker the right to an identifiable piece of
land on the basis of a lifetime, inheritable lease. These land use rights were made transferable in
2 Substantial technical assistance to privatization is being provided, by the World Bank, the USAID and the
EU.



-7-
April 1994, thereby setting the stage for the development of a land market. The process of
privatization involved 853 state farms in 1994 bringing to 1,455 (two thirds of the total number of
state farms) the aggregate number of state farms that are undergoing or have completed the
privatization process. However, this policy has led to little (other than nominal) farm restructuring so
far, due apparently to delays in titling: certificates of ownership had only been distributed for 65
farms. Also, the procedure of partially privatizing agro-processing firms (under the control of state
holdings) by exchanging shares in these firms against long term supply contracts between firms and
farms, run against the very objective of agriculture privatization (see para. 17).
Financial Sector
26.          Substantial progress has been made in 1994 toward strengthening the banking sector.
New prudential standards were introduced in April 1994, which although falling short of International
Standard Banking (ISB) requirements, will still submit banks to considerably stricter rules. The
National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK) has stepped up the enforcement of prudential rules. It closed 14
banks in 1993, and a further 22 in 1994. NBK is also limiting access to credit auctions to banks in
good prudential standing. After a period of inordinate licensing in 1992-93 (which brought the
number of licensed banks up to 205 in early 1994), NBK licensed only a handful of new banks in
1994 (including the new Housing Bank). Notwithstanding a fear that foreign banks might undercut
local ones, 5 joint venture banks and 3 wholly foreign-owned banks have been authorized.
27.          Several initiatives have been taken to restructure the specialized banks: (i) Sberbank
(formerly Savings bank) was transformed into a privately owned People's Bank; while deposit rates in
the former were administratively set at an extremely low level, the latter is free to determine its rates:
in late 1994, they ranged from 60 percent on sight deposits to 200 percent on term deposits; (ii) the
decision was taken in July 1994 to split Alem Bank (foreign trade bank) into a state owned Exim
Bank, that operates as an apex and guarantee institution for foreign export credits, and a private
commercial bank; (iii) it was decided to split Agroprombank into a "good" and a "bad bank" (see
para. 64); and (iv) Kredsozbank (the construction bank) is now a majority privately owned bank.
Overall, however, privatization of the specialized banks has not been a success so far: NBK had to
intervene in both Sberbank and Kredsozbank when those banks quickly came under distress as a result
of imprudent (and possibly fraudulent) activities. Indeed weaknesses in banking and financial
institutions and systems explain why this sector, on its own, does not yet have the capability to impose
discipline and restructuring on enterprises. The program therefore includes additional measures to
supplement the existing banking system in the efforts to restructure and (where appropriate) liquidate
enterprises.
Enterprise Restructuring
28.          Until recently, little enterprise restructuring had taken place in Kazakhstan. Whilst
already in 1994, an estimated 130 firms were idle, and another 163 were operating only intermittently,
little or no formal closure or liquidation had taken place. Firms had put an estimated 550,000 people
(7.4 percent of the labor force) out of work, but only 78,000 unemployed (1.0 percent of the labor
force) were actually registered by end-1994 and an even smaller number received unemployment
compensation. Existing bankruptcy procedures had also proven ineffective.
29.          This situation is now changing. In September 1994, confronted with large scale
default on the credit extended to refinance arrears, the Government established a program titled



-8-
"Financial Economic Adjustment, Restructuring and the Removal of Inefficient State Enterprises."
The program classifies state owned enterprises (SOEs) into various categories, each of which has
particular liquidation and restructuring consequences (see para. 49). The Government has also
requested the assistance of the World Bank in formulating a program of divestiture for enterprises'
social assets.
Social Protection
30.          The social situation has become fragile, even before any major industrial restructuring
-- which itself could be expected to exacerbate at least temporarily hardships suffered by the more
vulnerable groups in society. The authorities have started the preparation of a Living Standards
Measurement Survey to assess the extent and sources of the present poverty situation. Even in the
absence of nationally representative data, recent price, wage and benefit movements bear testimony to
sharply declining living standards. Despite a partial adjustment of wage setting mechanisms to
inflation, average wages fell by 15 percent annually in real terms, between end-1991 and end-1994.
In addition to falling cash income, the dereliction of many enterprise social assets (or their divestiture
to local administrations) has significantly reduced non-cash compensation to workers. Social
beneficiaries have been even more severely hit. Due to fiscal pressures (described in para. 11),
benefits have been adjusted only sporadically over recent years. As a result, average pensions and
other social benefits declined by 27 percent in real terms in 1994 over the previous year, after a 26
percent cut in 1993, and an even larger one in 1992. The reduction in social insurance contributions
enacted in January 1994, from 37 to 30 percent of wages, is also casting doubts as to the financial
viability of the pension system. Already by the end of 1994, the Government had accumulated large
arrears in the payment of pensions and other benefits.
C.            Performance under the Stabilization Program
31.          Kazakhstan began implementing a stabilization program in July 1993 supported by an
arrangement with the IMF under a Systemic Transformation Facility (STF). After the introduction of
the tenge, a new program was initiated under an upper tranche stand-by arrangement with the Fund.
The latter was approved by the Board of the IMF in January 1994. Most of the first quarter
performance criteria having been missed, the Government and the Fund reached agreement on a
revised program extending until May 1995. Unfortunately, revised fiscal targets and monetary
objectives for the end of the year were overshot, due to the burden of "quasi-fiscal" operations. On
this basis, the authorities reached agreement with the IMF on a "shadow program" for the first quarter
of 1995.
32.          Based on satisfactory performance under the latter, a new stand-by arrangement was
agreed upon in May 1995. The new stabilization objectives are to bring monthly inflation rates down
to 1 percent a month by the end of 1995, to stabilize the exchange rate and to slow down the decline
in output. Achievement of these objectives will be supported by a tightened budgetary stance (with an
overall fiscal deficit limited to 4.1 percent of GDP), but will also require significant amounts of
external financing (see paras. 80-83). Most importantly, the stabilization efforts must be linked to
accelerated structural reforms, the approach and details of which are now described.



-9-
PART III. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
A.           Principles of Reform
33.          To restructure the economy, the government's reform program adopts three principles:
Principle one:    set the framework for firms to restructure efficiently. This
involves developing and deepening competitive markets and
encouraging entry and exit of firms;
Principle two:    strengthen the instruments of enterprise restructuring. This
requires an enhanced privatization program, and imposing proper
financial discipline on banks and companies;
Principle three:   adopt suitable and affordable social safety net measures to protect
the unemployed during this period of dramatic change.
34.          The detailed measures of the reform program, within these three principles, are
described below. In the text, those measures which are of greatest importance are highlighted in
italics. They are policy conditions for the proposed Loan. The timing of the actions is also specified
'([BY BOARD];[BY 2ND TRANCHE]). A summary list of actions is shown in a policy matrix, included in
Annex 1. The Government's Letter of Economic Reform Policies is also included in Annex 1. The
interrelationship between these policy actions and the support to be provided under Bank project
operations is shown in Annex 3. The fiscal impact of the policies supported by the proposed SAL is
incorporated in the financial program supported by a stand-by arrangement for 1995 with the Fund.
35.          The agreed steps for microeconomic reform should help reduce enterprise borrowing
and therefore help support tighter monetary policy. They should also lower the demand for key
tradables, thereby helping stabilize the exchange rate. In short, they underpin macroeconomic
stabilization efforts (see Annex 2, Table 1 for macroeconomic outlook) and so provide a coherent
approach to improving Kazakhstan's long term economic performance. Indeed, reflecting the
interdependence between this reform program and stabilization efforts, the Government will be
required to demonstrate [BY 2ND TRANcHE] that satisfactory macroeconomic conditions are being
maintained.
B.           Prindple One: The Framework for Enterprise Restructuring
Developing Competitive Markets
36.          The elimination of administrative pricing was a necessary but by no means a sufficient
precondition for the emergence of efficient market signals. The next stage of reforms focuses on
removing existing impediments to competitive pricing, particularly in the areas of external trade,
agriculture, and energy. Adjusting some of the key prices which are to remain under government
regulation (mainly electricity and gas) to more realistic levels is also part of the outstanding reform
agenda. The steps to promote competitive pricing will be accompanied by measures to impose
financial discipline and reduce the accumulation of enterprise arrears.



-10-
External Trade
37.           Under the program, the Government has put in place a package of trade measures,
including, [BY BoARD]: (i) eliminating export quotas3; (ii) repealing the monopoly rights on the export
of 18 'strategic' commodities, granted in 1993 to 11 state trade organizations, and leaving producers
of exportables free to chose their preferred marketing arrangements; and (iii) reducing the number of
items subject to export licensing requirements to 17 listed categories of goods (such as radioactive
elements, antiques, rare species, weapons and ammunition, etc), none of which represent a significant
share of exports.4 The role of export licenses is now limited to the protection of the country's
cultural, natural and scientific heritage, of its national security, and of health and safety standards. In
the same spirit, the Government is currently formulating a new system of natural resource taxation
which would be adopted during the first half of 1995. In conjunction with the introduction of this new
tax regime, the control over the export profit margins of firms subject to anti-monopoly regulations,
and the related fines, would be abolished.
Domestic Trade and Pricing
38.           Demonopolizafion. Effective steps are needed to break the stranglehold of
monopolies on the economy. Anti-monopoly policy has so far been ineffectual in regulating their
activities. In response, the Government has decided to use trade liberalization and the privatization
program as the main anti-monopoly instruments, focusing on dismantling holding companies, the most
pervasive type of monopoly. [BY BOARD], the Government has adopted a demonopolization plan
which uses (i) the privatization program, and (ii) other restructuring measures, to dismantle monopoly
power of holdings. The careful design of this demonopolization plan is discussed immediately below.
Since dismantling monopolistic holdings is a very large task, and involves tackling the vast entrenched
interests that these holding companies represent, the plan must be implemented in a phased manner.
Its inrlementation strategy (presented in paras. 40-42) includes priority action in the grain and
petroleum distribution subsectors, where a critical and rapid impact can be made in fostering
competitive conditions.
39.            The design of the Government's demonopolization plan has two strands. First, the
main emphasis of the plan is, wherever possible, to privatize subsidiaries fully, thereby hollowing out
the holding company and eliminating its role. The plan identifies all those subsidiaries - which form
the majority of the 1,700 subsidiaries operating under holding companies - to be immediately included
within the SSP or MPP as appropriate, and sets a timetable for their privatization. No shares will be
retained under the holdings' control, and the privatization will help introduce market-led competition
and governance. This approach cannot be applied, however, to the relatively fewer holdings and
subsidiaries in which privatization is not an option in the short-term. Natural monopolies are the
clearest such example within this minority group, but it also includes administratively created
monopolies (e.g. large conglomerates which dominate specific subsectors or regions), which first need
to be segmented, and other subsidiaries ineligible for the NPP. For these cases, the second strand of
I In addition, the right of access to western export pipelines will be auctioned, after prior allocation is made
to fulfill existing contractual arrangements.
' Specific anti-dumping measures would remain in place, however, for designated agricultural commodities
(wheat, cotton, wool, hides) until September 1995.



-11-
the plan uses an approach which: (i) introduces competition, by segmenting the holdings into separate
units (typically three or more), wherever possible (i.e. excluding natural monopolies); (ii) encourages
efficient operation, for units remaining under state ownership, by introducing fixed term (maximum 3
years) management contracts, with incentives (such as stock options in privatized subsidiaries) granted
on performance related to medium term dismantling of the holding units themselves; (iii) improves
governance, by preventing sector ministries from exercising control of the state shares and appointing
the SPC to manage the state share in these remaining companies. For natural monopolies, tariff
regulation is also be required by the Price and Anti-Monopoly Committee.
40.           The implementation of this demonopolization plan will proceed by stages through 1995
and beyond. The first priority is to dismantle holdings in the grain subsector (see para. 41 below),
which is the dominant part of the agriculture sector, and in petroleum product distribution (see para.
42 below). The authorities will thereafter extend the implementation of the plan across subsectors of
distribution and trade, followed by the light industrial sector, and finally all remaining sectors.
Specific implementation targets include completing the privatization of all subsidiaries of 12 holding
companies by September 1995, and confirming management contracts by mid-1995 in at least 6
chosen cases.
41.           As noted in paras. 25 and 60, Government's strategy in agriculture is to move quickly
to private farming. For this strategy to yield the expected results in terms of improved efficiency, it
is indispensable that producers face competitive conditions both on the input and on the output side.
Whereas input pricing has already been to a large extent liberalized, much less has been accomplished
on the output side. In the grain sub-sector in particular, the holding company, Astyk, has held down
grain prices through its control of the sector's marketing arrangements. Producers have nevertheless
faced higher (liberalized) input prices, and consequently the sector has suffered dramatically (see para.
19). Implementing the demonopolization plan by dismantling Astyk is therefore a key step in
resolving this problem, and so helping to revitalize this nationally important sector. The process of
monopoly dismantling is to be accomplished through the privatization of remaining state shares in the
subsidiary companies that are currently under the management of Astyk -- the holding controlling the
milling, processing, transport, storage, and export of grain. Primary emphasis will be given to the
storage and assembly functions at the farm gate through [BY 2ND TRANCHE] auctioning all the 364
grain storage facilities (elevators), except those which are required to meet direct consumption
requirements of Government agencies and entities. Half of the number of flour and feed mills, and
macaroni plants, will also be auctioned in the same time frame.
42.          Implementing the demonopolization plan in the petroleum products distribution
subsector, requires the dismantling of Munai Onimderi -- the existing products transport, storage and
distribution holding -- through (i) the privatization of its retail distribution operations; (ii) the
privatization of bulk terminal facilities under conditions requiring their subsequent operation as
common service facilities; and (iii) the interim operation of all terminals under the control of the
holding company as common service facilities and (iv) the removal of all existing administrative
restrictions on the procurement of refined products by third parties from the refineries. [BY 2ND
TRANCHE], the Government will adopt and initiate the implementation of a plan involving, in each of
the three operating regions of the holding company, the full privatization, within one year, of at least
60 percent of retail distribution sites and associated assets and at least 50 percent of bulk terminals
belonging to the holding company. The initiation of the implementation of this plan will be
demonstrated by evidence of the first auctions of said entities, and the plan itself will be supported by
the Petroleum Technical Assistance Loan.



-12-
43.           Grain Procurement. The Government has eliminated completely the comnpulsory
deliveries for "state needs" and introduced a voluntary system of Government procurement for public
consumption requirements at competitively determined prices (thereby meeting a [BY BOARD]
condition). Starting in 1995, public procurement is limited only to the needs of public institutions
such as the defense forces, hospitals, schools and the country's security stock. Tenders will be placed
competitively with private grain suppliers. For sales other than to Government, contracts for domestic
use may be concluded either on commodity exchanges or directly between buyer and seller. Export
contracts for designated agricultural commodities will remain subject until September 1995 to anti-
dumping measures implemented through the commodity exchanges.
44.           Energy Prices. The program includes measures to allow energy prices to move
towards world market levels, thereby increasing returns to levels necessary to attract investments, and
enhancing the incentives for cost-effectiveness in energy use. The Government abolished on December
18, 1994, the administrative pricing of crude oil and eliminated, as of April 1, 1995, the system of
prescribed ceilings on the profit margins of crude oil producers previously used as a basis for price-
setting (thereby meeting a [BY BOARD] condition). As a result, the domestic price of crude oil
increased to 35 percent of export parity prices by the end of 1994 and to over 60 percent of export-
parity levels during the first quarter of 1995. Full adjustment to export parity would follow as
pipeline restrictions placed by Russia on regional and international oil trade are relaxed. The
Government has made an appropriate adjustment to taxes on oil to capture some of the resultant
windfall increase in the profits of producers' associations. The measures described in para. 43 to
dismantle holding structures in the distribution of petroleum products are expected, over time, to
eliminate excessive mark-ups in the monopolistic refining and distribution chain. As competition
increases in refining and distribution, the Government intends to abolish the explicit control of
margins in these industries. As a transitional arrangement until mid-1995, the Government will
continue to monitor the cost structure and prices of the industry to guard against the exercise of
monopoly powers. By that date, the Government plans to remove control on the margins of these
industries.
45.           For the gas sector, the pricing formula was revised in December 1994 to allow
sufficient margins over operating costs for enterprises to finance systems maintenance. In conjunction
with the restructuring of the national power company, in mid-1995, the Government will allow for a
differentiation of tariffs based on the costs of supplying power to different classes of customers.
Facilitating Firms' Entry and Exit
46.           For the process of restructuring to unfold, resources need to move in and out of
economic activities. Considerable progress has been made to date in liberalizing the entry of new
firms into the market. Licenses are now extended liberally, and are about to be replaced by simple
registration requirements. Facilitating access to land will remove one of the major outstanding
obstacles to entry. Also, the small-scale privatization program (see para. 55 below), and more
particularly the sub-programs addressed to trucking and wholesale facilities, will continue to be one of
the most powerful instruments to promote the emergence of competitive private businesses. Finally,
the program introduces measures to permit the closure of failed ventures.



-13-
Land Regime
47.           The authorities have demonstrated their commitment to developing secure private
tenure of land. The series of partial decrees issued in the first half of 1994 lay the foundation for the
development of land markets. Unfortunately, they also created a degree of legal confusion which now
needs to be remedied. The program focuses on ensuring that these newly established rights are
clarified and that the legal code is made consistent with the newly defined land rights. The most
urgent need is to lift the uncertainty affecting the status of the land currently used by firms,
particularly those being privatized. The Government has, [by Board], issued a decree that land
employed in business activities is incorporated as part of enterprise assets. The right to use land
employed in business activities is to be added to other corporate assets of all entities already
incorporated, irrespective of their ownership. In the case of already privatized firns, the value of the
land, as fixed by the Land Committee in January 1995, will be recovered by Government upon first
sale or transfer. [BY 2ND TRANcHE] The Cabinet of Ministers will, after review with the Bank, adopt
a draft land legislation for submission to Parliament, clarifying land rights, how they are granted and
transferred, and limiting the State's discretionary powers in these processes to registration, zoning and
taxing.5 The Government will also submit to Parliament in the same time frame, a law establishing a
public register of land and real estate.
Exit Procedures
48.           To facilitate the application and enforcement of financial discipline and restructuring,
[BY BOARD] a new Bankruptcy-Law has been adopted, that includes provisions for out-of-court
resolution of creditors' claims. By August 1995, the Government will also review (in the context of
the revision of the Civil Code) existing legislation on secured transactions to allow (i) all forms of
property as collateral for loans (including public registration of securities) and (ii) the enforcement of
secured rights outside bankruptcy proceedings.
49.           As noted (para. 29 above), the Government has adopted, in consultation with Bank
staff, a framework for initiating such exit procedures against distressed enterprises. Outside
agriculture, the process is overseen by an Interdepartmental Committee for Rehabilitation and
Removal of Inefficient State Companies. This Committee has identified the 475 largest distressed
enterprises. They fall into three categories to which specific treatments is to be applied. First,
enterprises which, upon early analysis are clearly insolvent and non-viable are to be quickly
liquidated. [BY BOARD] Legal liquidation procedures were initiated against an initial set of 8
distressed enterprises, the operations of these enterprises were terminated, and their staff dismissed,
all in accordance with the laws of Kazakhstan (including those providing for appropriate
unemployment compensation). Second, distressed "strategic" enterprises, i.e. those performing public
services and not eligible for privatization, will continue to be financed up to a fixed limit from the
budget. Third, among all other insolvent enterprises: (a) the [at least 20] largest net debtors are
assigned by unilateral government decision to a specialized financial institution, the Rehabilitation
Trust established by the Ministry of Finance (see paras. 66-69); (b) about 30 of the most promising
cases for a quick turn around will be selected and purchased by a venture capital fund, to be
established with EBRD equity financing; (c) the remainder will be dealt with by work-out divisions
S Such legislation may be included in the Civil Code currently being revised by Parliament (first section
approved in December 1994).



-14-
being established in commercial banks (see para. 64). In this process, the financial institutions
involved (not the Government), will decide on the necessity of liquidation or the feasibility and
financing of restructuring. Adequate explicit allocation is made in the 1995 budget to ensure that this
program can be implemented successfully.
50.           In agriculture (including agro-industries), a similar interdepartmental committee has
identified about 1,200 distressed firms and farms (about a third of the total), and marked 256 of them
for early liquidation. In this sector, the liquidation\restructuring process will be conducted in the
context of the restructuring of Agroprombank (see para. 65).
C.            Principle Two. The Instruments of Enterprise Restructuring
51.           The program envisages that private owners and banks will be the principal agents of
enterprise restructuring. The instruments to help them play their role are: (i) the strengthening of the
ongoing rapid privatization program so that private shareholding reaches a critical mass as soon as
practical; and (ii) a tightening of banking regulations that force financial institutions to discipline their
borrowers.
Privatization
52.           Kazakhstan's privatization program recognizes that the quality of privatization matters
as much as its pace. Not only should ownership be transferred quickly, it should also enhance
competitiveness in the economy and involve investors who are able and motivated to guide their firms
toward profit objectives. The program seeks to strengthen these features.
The National Privatization Proaram
53.           Pipeline Development. A first priority is to strengthen the supply pipeline for the
National Privatization Program (NPP) as a whole. The State Property Committee (SPC) is completing
a full list of enterprises with state participation and a comprehensive database of objects eligible for
privatization. On this basis, SPC will include in the SSP and the MPP all enterprises of relevant size
and add to those programs firms of more than 5,000 employees which are unlikely to attract to major
investors in the near future. SPC also started to publish on a quarterly basis a public roster of
enterprises to be privatized.
54.           Specific measures have also been taken to help overcome some of the obstacles to the
privatization process (see paras. 23-24). First, whereas all privatization proceeds will continue to go
to the budget to finance investment programs or to retire public debt, 30 percent of SSP receipts is
now earmarked to the relevant local authorities (which are currently only compensated for their
administrative costs). Second, to accelerate mass corporatization, the Government has, by the end of
March 1995: (i) abolished fees on the registration of enterprises within the program; and (ii) prevented
enterprises distributing shares to employees before incorporation is completed. Finally, SPC has
prepared a work program to clear the backlog of firms awaiting the issuance and registration of their
shares, thereby ensuring improvements in the incorporation process and an increasing volume of
properly issued and registered, freely tradeable shares for the NPP.
55.           Small Scale Privatization (SSP). The quality of the pipeline has also been enhanced
[BY BOARD] by prohibiting restrictive profile conditions at sale, (except for basic goods from bakeries



*-15-
and pharmacies, for a period of up to 2 years, to ensure their availability to the population). This
constitutes a significant step in widening the impact of the SSP and reinforcing the Government's
commitment to the program. The SSP also aims at bringing the pipeline of establishments and trucks
up for privatization in 1995 to 10,000 each and [BY 2ND TRANCHE] increasing the number of
establishments and trucks being auctioned so as to reach a monthly average of at least 500 in each
case over the period between negotiation and second tranche release. This will bring the number of
establishments and trucks privatized or in the pipeline for privatization under the SSP to over 50
percent of eligible objects. Existing regulations are also being amended to permit the divestiture of
wholesale firms as going concerns (instead of on an asset basis), allowing divestiture of about 8 such
firms per month through 1995. Interest at the NBK refinancing rates will be also charged on overdue
payments for SSP objects. SSP sales will continue to be conducted through open auctions. Finally,
the SPC has developed specific norms for reducing reservation prices where objects have failed to be
sold, with a possibility of only nominal payment.
56.          Mass Privatization (MPP). The Government has maintained the fundamental
parameters of the MPP [BY BOARD]. The MPP will raise the pipeline of enterprises to a further
2,000, and [BY 2ND TRANCHE] increase the number of eligible firms auctioned under the MPP to a
monthly average of at least 150 over the period between negotiation and second tranche release. This
global target for the MPP should come close to covering 100 percent of the available enterprises by
end-1995. Repeat auctions would be held for those firms not sold at first offer, after which firms
remaining unsold would be expected to be placed in receivership. [BY 2ND TRANCHE] the Government
will adopt, after review with the World Bank, a plan to reduce to less than 30 percent the
Government's shareholding in firms previously privatized under the MPP.
57.          To strengthen the Investment Privatization Funds' (IPFs) capacity to exercise effective
enterprise governance, the following revisions were made to the MPP: [BY BOARD] (i) the maximum
percentage of shares of any one enterprise that any IPF may acquire, in one or more auctions, has
been increased to 31 percent;6 and (ii) the maximum percentage of its net assets that an IPF may
invest in any one enterprise has been raised to 10 percent. To facilitate the entry of other strategic
investors, the minimum time that an IPF must hold shares in any one enterprise was abolished. This
objective will be further supported by the rapid development of secondary markets for trading of
shares in the IPFs and enterprise shares held by IPFs. An independent, private stock exchange has
been formed. The regulatory framework for the security market will be adopted by mid-1995.7
58.          Case-by-Case Privatization (CbC). The SPC will issue, by June 1995, consultant
tenders for the sale of at least 10 large enterprises through CBC tenders and another 15 during the rest
of the year. It will have finalized, by the end of 1995, at least 10 major transactions.
59.          Agro-Industries. SPC has stopped its current special program for agro-enterprises,
which was fostering the vertical integration of the sector. It has included [By BOARD] all agro-
6 Lifting the current ceiling to this threshold allows IPFs to acquire a "blocking share", thereby increasing
their ability to influence the restructuring and management of the enterprise, without jeopardizing the diversity
of interests represented in enterprises' boards.
' USAID is currently assisting in the development of a secondary market and the comprehensive
improvement of securities regulation, with an US$18 million technical assistance project.



-16-
enterprises not yet privatized, as well as the remaining state shares in partially privatized ones, in the
SSP or MPP. Moreover, the practice of binding suppliers into long-term contracts in exchange for
discounted shares was discontinued.
60.          Farms. To accelerate and strengthen the farm privatization process, the Government
will: (i) strengthen the process of asset valuation and distribution, with the support of the proposed
FY96 Land Titling Project; and (ii) encourage members of privatized firms to adopt alternative farm
structures through pilots and information on different farm models that are emerging both in
Kazakhstan and other countries in the FSU, among others in the context of the proposed FY96 Farm
Restructuring Project. The Government is discontinuing the restricted sales of non-land assets to farm
managers, and ensure that future sales be made through transparent and open procedures and with
minimal profile restrictions.
Financial Discipline
61.          Along side the private sector, the financial sector is expected to play a key role in the
adjustment of enterprises by enforcing financial discipline in the economy. To this end, the role of
banks in the payment system is being reinforced, and the implementation of monetary and prudential
policies will be used as an important tool for disciplining the banking sector and its borrowers.
62.          Payments and Liquidity Management. To contain the resurgence of inter-enterprise
arrears, the authorities will refrain from any new clearing operation involving Government or NBK
financing. They are seeking to overhaul the payment system through the following measures: (i)
limitations on the use of irrevocable letters of credit will be removed and the use of tradable bank
promissory notes is being introduced; and (ii) banks have completed by March 1995, the consolidation
of the individual correspondent accounts of their branches with NBK in a single central account
located in their headquarters (except the two banks with the largest networks which will comply by
end-1995).
63.          Financial discipline of the banking sector will be reinforced by improvements to
monetary management instruments. A discount window was created in early 1995 to provide last
resort refinancing fully secured with Treasury bills. Directed credits were eliminated, as of February
1995. By June 1995, the Government, with the NBK, will introduce incentives for onlending
institutions to collect outstanding directed credits, including through collection bonuses.
64.          Portfolio Management. Commercial banks were instructed at the end of 1994 to: (i)
centralize, in their headquarters, all risk taking decisions above a low and compulsory level, (ii)
introduce credit, internal control and internal audit procedures meeting minimum compulsory
requirements; and (iii) establish plans for setting up, through 1995, central work-out units which
should manage their large non-performing loans and control the management of smaller ones at the
branch levels; to this end, the NBK will provide priority assistance and advice, to selected large and
important banks, to establish central work-out units. As noted above (paras. 27 and 50),
Agroprombank -- the bank with the largest non performing portfolio -- is being handled as a special
case. Its portfolio of non performing directed credits, together with the NBK credits that finance
them, will be transferred in 1995 to an Agricultural Restructuring Fund. The latter will act as a debt
resolution agency and will, inter alia, enforce the program of liquidation\restructuring. It will not
have access to any fresh resources.



-17-
65.           Prudential Regine. The prudential framework was complemented by the
introduction, in early 1995, of a compulsory risk classification of assets. Accompanying provisioning
requirements, will be phased-in a realistic and enforceable manner. Several additional steps are being
taken to improve the governance of the banking sector, the most important of which is to end the
direct influence of state enterprises on banks. By decision of late 1994, the voting rights attached to
the shares held in banks by state enterprises have been transferred to the Ministry of Finance; the
shares themselves will be swapped against bonds in 1995.
66.           Rehabilitation Trust. At present, commercial banks do not have the capacity and
cannot be expected to force and control the economic and financial restructuring of all distressed
borrowers, especially the largest ones. While this capacity is being built through the steps described
in the previous paragraphs, extraordinary measures are in order. The authorities have therefore
decided to create a Rehabilitation Trust (in effect, a "bad bank"), to assume this disciplining role for a
discrete number of the largest loss-making enterprises. [BY BOARD], the Rehabilitation Trust was
created by Presidential Decree of March 29, 1995 and its charter was approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers (with a specified limited lifetime of 4 years). The Rehabilitation Trust is a once-and-for-all
operation. It will operate within a pre-determined, fixed financial envelope.
67.           The objective of the Trust is to force the restructuring, privatization or liquidation of
the most highly indebted loss-making enterprises. This Trust will take over the existing risk exposure
of the banking sector on the [at least 20] distressed major firms outside agriculture, assigned
unilaterally - according to fixed selection criteria - by the Government. The size of finns' overdue
payables will be taken as prima facie evidence of distress, and used as a primary criterion to select
these firms. In keeping with the limited operational lifetime of the Trust, the list of enterprises
assigned to it is a closed one. Future cases of distresses, which are certain to occur as the process of
reform unfolds, will be handled exclusively by commercial banks, suppliers and owners. Since the
majority of the enterprise sector's total stock of debt is concentrated on a small subset of large
enterprises, the Trust's focus on that subset of enterprises, in its role as a "one-off" debt resolution
and restructuring instrument, should allow it to make a significant contribution to the success of the
macroeconomic stabilization program.
68.           The Rehabilitation Trust will be the sole source of banking credit for its selected firms
("RT firms"). In establishing the Trust, the following portfolio will be transferred to it: (i) at face
value, the commercial banks' portfolio of directed credit to RT firms, as well as the NBK credits
which back them; (ii) at a discount, commercial bank loans to RT firms financed by other resources,
net of RT enterprise deposits, any residual balance being financed by Government-guaranteed bonds;
and (iii) at face value, Government claims on RT firms, arising from tax arrears and past inter-
enterprise arrears refinancing. The Trust will finance only the operating deficits of RT firms (to be
eliminated over a period of maximum 3 years) and prevent these enterprises accumulating arrears and
to allow maintenance and such remedial actions (including labor retrenchment, down-sizing,
segmentation) as are necessary to prepare for privatization or liquidation. Access to the Trust's
resources is conditional upon the presentation and implementation, by RT firms, of passive
restructuring programs, aimed at privatization, or of liquidation procedures, over a maximum period
of four years. Under its charter, the Trust will not be allowed to finance new investment or, more
generally, any active restructuring.
69.           The Trust will benefit from a fixed envelope of budgetary resources and officially
guaranteed NBK credits, with its annual lending to firms being limited below the amount of bank and



-18-
government credit received by these firms in 1994. The 1995 budget, agreed with the IMF includes
the budget appropriation required for this institution to meet its objectives. It will [BY 2ND TRANCHE]
have taken over thefinances of all designated enterprises, its budget appropriation will have been
executed, and legal proceedings, for liquidation or other forms of debt resolution available under the
Bankruptcy law, will have been initiated against an initial group of at least 4 enterprises. The Trust
will operate on a fully autonomous basis, under the sole control of its Board, and will use Turan Bank
or another bank as its agent to implement its financial and monitoring activities. To assist RT firm in
preparing restructuring/privatization plans, a Restructuring Advisory Unit (RAU) has been established
within the Ministry of Economy. For a detailed description of the Rehabilitation Trust and
Restructuring Advisory Unit, see Finance and Enterprise Development Project, Staff Appraisal
Report, Annexes II and III (March 29, 1995).
D.            Principle Three: The Social Safety Net
70.           The Government is concerned to help alleviate poverty amongst vulnerable groups in
society, and prevent any increase in its incidence. Macroeconomic stabilization, and a subsequent
recovery in output growth, are essential for long term poverty alleviation. Further prolonged sharp
falls in GDP must be avoided to prevent worsening hardship for the poor. In this context, the first
two principles of the Government's reform strategy (encouraging market development and enterprise
restructuring), which help secure stabilization and a recovery in output, are the main weapons in the
battle against poverty.
71.           In the process of transition, however, particular identifiable hardships can be placed
on groups in the community. The Government's reform program addresses these transitional
hardships directly. The Government recognizes that two forces in enterprise restructuring are
emerging, which make the provision of- adequate social protection to the population an increasingly
important concern. These forces are: (i) increasing open unemployment, as enterprises take action on
the need to reduce their employment of labor; and (ii) uncertain and inadequate provision of social
services, as enterprise restructuring requires firms to cease providing social services and divest
themselves of social assets. In response, the Government has developed, with World Bank assistance,
a Social Protection Project which sets a framework to tackle these problems. There are two main
components for the Social Protection Project (FY95): (i) an Employment Services Component to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Employment Service to register the unemployed, calculate
and pay unemployment benefits; and (ii) a Social Services Component to facilitate in selected pilot
areas, the transfer, from enterprises to local governments, of essential social services, and to
rationalize their management. Pension reform is another key area of concern, but one that will be
tackled beyond the time frame of this operation. Design work is being supported under the Technical
Assistance Loan.
72.          A package of policy measures is being adopted under the proposed Social Protection
Project. A selection of those measures is described below. Those measures which set the framework
for, and are central to, the overall enterprise restructuring reform program are included in the SAL.
Unemployment Benefits
73.           To mitigate the. social effects of the expected major increase in open unemployment,
the Government will carry out a reform of the present system of unemployment benefits. In
particular, [BY 2ND TRANCHE] legislation will be enacted which provides for a scale of three levels of
and entitlement to unemployment benefits. The basic rate will be increased to the minimum level of



-19-
compensation currently set by law and paid to employees in the budgetary sector, and will be
subsequently linked to this amount. Unemployed workers in the agricultural or budgetary sectors will
receive either 1 or 2 times the basic rate, depending on previous earnings/level of employment.
Workers retrenched from industrial enterprises will receive either 2 or 3 times the basic rate
depending upon previous earnings/level of employment. It is recognized that the expected rise in
unemployment, with higher benefit levels per claimant, will increase demands on the Employment
Fund's budget. In response to this, steps will include terminating low priority programs, which
currently absorb the bulk of the Fund's resources, introducing, by mid-1995, a 1 percent employee
contribution, and extending the coverage of the employer's social security contributions (at the
standard rate) to the agricultural and government sectors.
Enterprises' Social Assets
74.           To ensure the continued operation of essential social services currently delivered by
enterprises which might be liquidated or privatized, the Government will, within the reform program,
design a budgetary mechanism to finance essential social services divested by enterprises. This
mechanism will be reviewed with the World Bank, and incorporated in the mid-term revision of the
1995 budget. Within the Social Protection Project, the Government will put in place the following
policies: (i) enterprises will not be obliged to continue operating social services currently under their
control; (ii) local administrations will be required to ensure that essential social services, relinquished
by enterprises, will be delivered within a rationalized system of social service provision; (iii) local
administrations will be allowed to force the transfer of social assets from state enterprises if and where
they believe it is in the interest of the community to do so; (iv) the standards and norms of the
divested social services should be unified with those of comparable services run by local authorities;
(v) the Government will develop a set of revised norms covering access to essential social services it
operates or finances; (vi) cost recovery will be introduced as appropriate by the local authorities in
order to complement the resources available to them, but systems will be designed to protect the poor
and ensure that basic social services remain accessible to them; and (vii) non-essential services,
relinquished by enterprises, will be sold, or closed down, and this divestiture will be carried out under
the authority of the SPC.
E.            Fiscal Impact
75.          Implementation of the proposed program is likely to have, in the aggregate, a small
positive fiscal impact, estimatea at 0.5 percent of GDP in 1995. The largest budgetary charges will
come from the capitalization of the Rehabilitation Trust, representing about 0.6 percent of GDP and
the cost of government guarantees on domestic borrowing which would amount to another 0.6 percent
of GDP. Unemployment benefit payments will increase the expenditure burden. With enhanced
benefits, and the unemployment rate estimated to rise to an average of 8 percent of the labor force in
1995, outlays on unemployment benefits are projected to rise from the negligible amounts incurred up
until now to about 0.5 percent of GDP. Most of the extra cost will be met by the planned increase in
social security contributions (employee contribution and broadening of base of employer contribution)
and cuts in non-priority programs. Projections also take into account the inclusion within the budget
of retrenchment payments to workers that firms will be unable to meet (about 0.3 percent of GDP).
On the positive side, increased royalties following the liberalization of crude oil prices are
conservatively estimated to yield an additional 1.1 percent of GDP to the budget (on a net basis).
Proceeds from SSP, MPP and CbC privatization would yield an estimated 0.9 percent of GDP in
revenues.



-20-
76.           Most of the positive
macroeconomic impact of the program,                 Summary Fiscal Impact of SAL Prozram
however, would arise from the containment                     (in percent of GDP)
of enterprises losses through price reform,    Rehabilitation Trust Capitalization    -0.6
liquidation of failed ventures, and tighter
banking rules, including discipline imposed    Domestic Credit Guarantees             -0.6
through the Rehabilitation Trust. The
combined effect on enterprise profitability of    Unemployment                        -0.4
all these actions is impossible to predict with
any degree of accuracy, but is expected to        Benefits (u=8%. av.)                0.1
amount to at least 5 percent of GDP in the        Other Programs                       0.1
first year of the program and expand              Employer Contribution (agr.)         0.2
thereafter. Finally, this macroeconomic           Retrenchment (50,000 w)"            -0.3
performance would be further buttressed by
the mobilization of non-inflationary external  oil Royalties                           1.1
support, including the proposed SAL,           Privatization Proceeds                  0.9
expected at about 3.9 percent of GDP in
1995. These estimates are incorporated in     Net Fiscal Impact                       0.5
the financial program supported by the 1995
IMF stand-by arrangement.                      Including for firms under Rehabilitation Trust
PART IV. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A.            Rationale for Bank Involvement
77.           This project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Kazakhstan,
discussed by the Board of Directors on August 3, 1993 in the context of the Kazakhstan Technical
Assistance project. That CAS set forth a Bank assistance program based on an intermediate-case
scenario, characterized by implementation of a macro-economic program in the context of an IMF
STF, and satisfactory progress in key structural reform areas. Bank assistance was upgraded to a
high-case scenario when Kazakhstan adopted an IMF stand-by arrangement in January 1994 and
moved to deepen structural reforms. It has remained in this category as the Government initiated the
program of structural reforms described above and entered into a second year arrangement with the
IMF. This high-case scenario is characterized by, inter alia: a strong stabilization program supported
by an upper-tranche stand-by arrangement with the IMF; good progress with the privatization programn
for small, medium and large enterprises; steady progress with privatization of very large enterprises;
and the start of a coherent reform program in agriculture.
78.           The Government's reform strategy indeed aims at achieving macro-economic
stabilization and implementing structural and sectoral reforms. The key elements of this strategy that
have assumed priority for the rlext few years are: (i) developing competitive markets throughout the
economy, particularly in agriculture; (ii) reforming the enterprise and financial sectors; (iii) putting in
place adequate social protection policies; and (iv) addressing bottlenecks in infrastructure and energy,
and cleaning up the environment.



-21-
79.           The Bank's assistance strategy is designed to support the above agenda. Both the
success of the reform process, and the increasing exploitation of the country's substantial natural
resources (notwithstanding the risks described in para. 96 below), are factors supporting Kazakhstan's
creditworthiness. The country is likely, however, to require balance of payments support in the next
three to four years until new oil revenues begin making an impact on the economy. Considering this,
the centerpiece of the lending program for Kazakhstan for the next three years is a series of
adjustment operations, with a project lending pipeline that supports the achievement of adjustment
objectives.
External Financing Requirements
80.           Kazakhstan is in the midst of tremendous external difficulties. As seen in para. 13
above, the volume of its foreign trade has been contracting sharply while its trade deficit has widened.
The reform program presented above constitutes a bold effort at reducing the domestic imbalances that
are the counterpart of this external deficit. As the country maintains its conservative fiscal stance, the
authorities will seek to contain, then reduce, the financial deficit of the enterprise sector as well as to
curtail the domestic absorption of tradables. This effort will take some time to bear fruit. In the
meantime, it is essential for the success of the program that the country's import capacity does not
suffer further.
81.           To achieve this, the country will need to continue to borrow (on a gross disbursements
basis, and including purchases from the IMF) an estimated average of US$1,100 million annually
through 1996, in addition to an average inflow of direct foreign investment of US$330 million. An
increasing portion of that borrowing will need to come from official sources, because trade credit is
expected to decline from about 45 percent of gross borrowing in 1994 to about 25 percent in 1995-96.
This decline in trade credits is likely following the partial moratorium declared by the Government on
contracting new government-guaranteed export credit agreements. Furthermore, as the country's
external outlook is more promising in the medium than in the short term, it will want to obtain the
longer maturities afforded by official loans. Considering that donors' project pipelines are still
underdeveloped, a significant proportion of the external financing needs should be met, at least
initially, in the form of program assistance.
82.           This borrowing strategy should allow the country's indebtedness to be contained well
within manageable bounds. The country's external debt is expected to stabilize around US$4,500
billion and debt service (which had been almost eliminated as a result of the country's adoption of the
"zero debt option" regarding previous Soviet debt in 1993) is expected to remain moderate.
Influenced by the cancellation in early 1995 of US$1,250 million in debt to Russia, the debt service
ratio is projected to peak below 16 percent in the final years of the decade when the country services
the principal of its earlier IMF borrowing.
83.           For 1995, the country's gross external financing requirement is estimated at about
US$1,800 million, a third of which is being covered by debt relief from Russia, direct foreign
investment and unrequited transfers, and the remainder through external borrowing. After export
credits, IMF purchases, and already committed official assistance, the country would still require
about another US$460 million from new official commitments. The proposed SAL (at least its first
tranche) would constitute the World Bank's main contribution towards addressing this financing need.
In total, therefore, the World Bank would be contributing about 10 percent of Kazakhstan's gross
external financing requirement in 1995. New commitments from other multilateral institutions, such



-        -22-
as EBRD and ADB, could provide another US$80 million. The bilateral members of the Consultative
Group will be expected to cover the remaining balance.
World Bank Support to Structural Reforms
84.           The Bank's lending program comprises operations to support policy reform and
investments critical to the Government's reform agenda outlined above. Among the operations
approved in FY94, the ongoing Technical Assistance Loan is designed to support corporatization and
privatization, state enterprise governance, pilot restructuring of some of the largest enterprises, bank
audit and supervision and commercial and banking legislation. A Petroleum Technical Assistance
Loan is to assist in developing the legal and fiscal framework for oil operations, and restructuring the
petroleum industry. Finally, an Urban Transport Project is helping strengthen selected transportation
companies and reform tariff policies.
85.           This assistance is to be expanded in FY95-97. The proposed SAL is described in this
memorandum. Three project operations will provide the institutional underpinning for the
implementation of the policies supported by the SAL (see Annex 3). An FY95 Finance and Enterprise
Development Project (US$62 million) approved in April 1995 will assist in strengthenirg the payment
system and creating a Rehabilitation Trust, charged with the restructuring or liquidation of the
country's largest enterprise debtors. Similarly, an FY95 Social Protection Loan (US$41 million)
approved in May 1995 will assist in the divestiture of enterprise social assets and help strengthen
employment services. This will allow acceleration of the privatization program as the social
responsibilities of state enterprises are transferred to local government budgets. Finally, an FY96
Land Titling Project will support the acceleration of land reform. On the basis of policy and
institutional progress in these projects, two FY96 projects will assist in post-privatization restructuring
in industry (Post-Privatization Restructuring Project) and in agriculture (Farm Restructuring Project).
Assuming that the country continues to evolve in a high case scenario, further policy based operations
will follow in the next two years, starting with a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan in FY96 aimed at
assisting the restructuring of the banking sector as well as deepening enterprise reforms.
86.           The rest of the Bank's operations would: strengthen public sector management in core
areas (through a Treasury Modernization project); halt the deterioration in key oil producing facilities,
restructure energy sector enterprises and help catalyze foreign investment (Uzen Oilfield Rehabilitation
project); and prevent the deterioration of key infrastructure facilities (through Irrigation and
Infrastructure projects).
B.            Loan Description
87.            The Borrower will be the Republic of Kazakhstan as represented by the Ministry of
Finance. The Loan will be in an amount equivalent to US$180 million and be available in two equal
tranches. Second tranche conditions are expected to be fulfilled within 6 months of the first tranche.
The Government has designated the Staff of the Cabinet of Ministers to coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the program, and report on the matter on a regular basis to the Cabinet of Ministers
and to the Bank.
88.           Procurement and disbursement procedures will be administered by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), originally established within the Ministry of Economy for the purpose
inter alia of the Rehabilitation, Technical Assistance, and Urban Transport Loan and now part of the



-23-
newly created Committee for Foreign Capital Utilization under the Cabinet of Ministers. This unit
benefits from expatriate support in finance and procurement.
C.           Procurement
89.          Procurement under the proposed SAL will follow the standard procedures detailed in
the "Guidelines. for Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits." Given (i) the size of
transactions in a country domnirated by large scale enterprises, and (ii) Kazakhstan's progress in
developing a competitive market econoimy, the threshold for simplified International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) is set at US$3 million. Procurement for all contracts under this threshold for the
import of goods procured by competitive enterprises in the commercial sector will be done directly by
the importers using established commercial practices which are deemed acceptable within the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Under this threshold also, procurement by public sector entities under the
Borrower's public procurement procedures is subject to Bank prior approval. If those procedures are
found not to be acceptable, the public entities shall obtain three quotations from at least two different
countries. For contracts larger than US$3 million dollars, all contracts will be awarded through
simplified International Competitive Bidding procedures, following the Bank's Guidelines, and using
Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Goods. Commonly traded commodities may be procured
through organized international markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and with Bank prior approval.
Expenditures for goods procured under contracts of less than US$5,000 equivalent are not be eligible
for financing under the Loan. The Bank plans a strategy paper on procurement followed by a Country
Procurement Assessment Review in 1996.
D.           Disbursement
90.          The Loan will finance 100 percent of the foreign expenditures on goods, imported
from World Bank member countries. Contracts in the currency of the Borrower are not eligible.
Goods imported after February-s 15, 1995 are eligible for retroactive financing under the Loan up to a
maximum amount of US$36 million, equivalent to 20 percent of the Loan amount, in view of the
considerable progress already made by the country in implementing the reform program and of its
urgent balance of payments needs. The Loan's closing date will be December 31, 1996. Imports
eligible to reimbursement under the Loan will be subject to the Bank's standard negative list.
Disbursements will be made to the Ministry of Finance on the basis of: (i) statements of expenditures
(SOEs), prepared by the PIU, following the Bank's simplified documentation requirement for
adjustment operations, i.e. prepared from customs certificates, for contracts valued at less than US$3
million, or upon submission of full documentation (contract, supplier's invoice, evidence of shipment,
customs certificate and evidence of payment) to the Bank, for larger contracts, respectively; and (ii) a
statement by the Borrower that the imports presented for reimbursement have not been financed by
another loan or grant, or imported through barter arrangements. The customs certificates covered by
the SOEs will be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and auditors. Finally,
the Borrower will be allowed to request from the World Bank that, for contracts or customs
certificates expressed in the currency of an FSU country, disbursement be made in hard currency,
instead of the currency of the contract, with the hard currency equivalent being calculated at the
exchange rate of the day that the World Bank effects the payment.



-24-
E.            Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing
91.           The PIU has established an appropriate accounting system, according to generally
accepted standards, providing all necessary information on the receipt and use of funds, in accordance
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. The PIU will prepare annual statements of all receipts
and payments under the Loan.
92.           The Borrower will arrange for the auditing of the above financial statements by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Project Accounts will be audited in accordance with the
March 1992 "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing Projects Financed by the World Bank."
The Bank will receive these audited statements and audit reports in such scope and detail that it may
reasonably request, within six months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower.
F.           Actions Taken before Board Presentation
93.          The authorities have conveyed to the Bank a Letter of Economic Reform Policies,
which describes the program of structural reforms which the Government is currently implementing
(see Annex 1). Salient features of this program that were prior actions for Board presentation and
have been implemented are the following:
(i)          eliminating export quotas; repealing the monopoly rights on the export of 18
"strategic" commodities; reducing the number of items subject to export licensing
requirements to 17 listed categories of goods;
(ii)         adopting the demonopolization plan, agreed at negotiation, which uses (i) the
privatization program, and (ii) other restructuring measures, to dismantle monopoly
power of holdings;
(iii)        introducing a voluntary system of Government procurement for public consumption
requirements at competitively determined prices;
(iv)         liberalizing profit margins on crude oil production;
(v)          taking necessary legal action in order for land employed in business activities to be
incorporated as part of enterprise assets. The right to use land employed in business
activities is to be added to other assets of all corporate entities, irrespective of their
ownership;
(vi)         adopting a revised Bankruptcy Law, that includes provisions for out-of-court resolution
of creditors' claims;
(vii)         prohibiting restrictive profile conditions on objects sold under the small-scale
privatization program;
(viii)       preserving the fundamental parameters and integrity of the mass privatization program,
whilst allowing IPFs to acquire 31 percent of an enterprise and invest up to 10 percent
of its assets in a single enterprise. The minimum time that an IPF must hold shares in
any one enterprise is abolished;



-25-
(ix)          including all agro-industrial enterprises not yet privatized, as well as the remaining
state shares in partially privatized ones, in the SSP or MPP;
(x)           enacting the decree founding the Rehabilitation Trust and approving its charter (with a
specified limited lifetime of 4 years), and including in the 1995 budget the budget
appropriation required for this institution to meet its objectives; and
(xi)          completing the process of closing down eight insolvent enterprises and dismissing their
staffs.
G.            Agreements Reached
94.           Before second tranche release, the Government will need to demonstrate satisfactory
implementation of the program laid out in the Letter of Economic Reform Policies. In particular, it
will have carried out the following actions:
(i)           offering for sale through NPP auctions all the shares in its grain storage facilities
(previously under the control of the holding company Astyk) except those which are
required to meet direct consumption requirements of Government agencies and
entities;
(ii)          adopting and initiating the implementation of a plan involving, in each of the three
operating regions of the petroleum products distribution holding company, the full
privatization, within one year, of at least 60 percent of retail distribution sites and
associated assets and at least 50 percent of bulk terminals belonging to the holding
company;
(iii)         reviewing with the Bank and adopting in Cabinet of Ministers a draft revised land
legislation for submission to Parliament, defining inter alia land tenure, use and
transfer;
(iv)          offering for sale through SSP auctions a monthly average of at least 500
establishments and at least 500 trucks over the period between negotiation and second
tranche release;
(v)           offering for sale through auctions against PICs a majority ownership in at least 150
majority state-dwned enterprises designated for the MPP, over the period between
negotiation and second tranche release;
(vi)          adopting, after review with the World Bank, a plan to reduce to less than 30 percent
the Government's shareholding in firms previously privatized under the MPP;
(vHi)         the Rehabilitation Trust receiving its budget appropriation, taking over the finances of
all designated enterprises, and legal proceedings for liquidation or other forms of debt
resolution under the Bankruptcy Law being initiated against an initial group of at least
four enterprises; and
(viii)        enacting legislation which provides for three levels of and entitlement to
unemployment benefits. The basic rate will be increased to the minimum level of



-26-
compensation currently set by law and paid to employees in the budgetary sector, and
will be subsequently linked to this amount.
Furthermore, reflecting the interdependence between this reform program and stabilization efforts, the
Government will need to ensure, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that the country's macroeconomic
policy framework remains consistent with the objectives of the program described in the Government's
Letter of Economic Reform Policies.
H.            Benefits and Risks
95.           Benefits. Helping to underpin strong policies for enterprise restructuring will support
macroeconomic stabilization, and promote in due course a recovery in output, without which the
incidence of poverty will increase. The finance provided by the loan will help sustain minimal import
capacity during the difficult ec6nomic conditions of transition. Imports to be financed will have direct
impacts on sustaining commercial output and employment, as well as maintaining the supply of
essential items such as medicines and other health-related goods. The loan agreement will also help
establish and reinforce a sound policy environment for the success of Bank-supported sector-specific
projects (e.g. the Social Protection Project) and the IMF-supported stabilization efforts.
96.           Risks. As in many reforming economies, the risk of policy slippage can never be
eliminated. But other country risks are more specific to Kazakhstan. The main one will be any
persistent difficulty in the country's relations with Russia, with its consequence on the capacity of the
country to develop its natural resources. The country's strong export potential is not expected to
materialize until the country succeeds in developing secure trade and transit agreements with its
neighbors. An oil export pipeline is particularly critical. Short of that, needed foreign investment is
unlikely to be forthcoming in any large amount, and exports are unlikely to expand particularly
rapidly. The mutual benefits of such cooperation among FSU countries are sufficiently high for all
the parties to have reasonable confidence in a positive outcome. The real uncertainty resides in the
time frame in which Kazakhstan's export potential will begin to be realized. The external scenario
presented in this paper (see Table 2, Annex 2) is one of guarded optimism, the assumption being that
no significant new oil revenues will start flowing before 1998. Under this scenario, the trade balance
is expected gradually to bottom-out from a projected deficit of over US$950 million in 1995 and
shrink to one third of that level by year 2000. The country's foreign debt will stabilize at about
US$4,500 million (including oujtstanding obligations to the IMF) in the last years of the century. The
country's external situation is unlikely to improve faster than envisaged in this scenario before 1997,
but if the foreign investment projected for the next three years fails to materialize, financing gaps will
persist beyond that year.
97.           The extent of the challenge to be met, and the response of the program, will place
heavy demands on the country's institutional capacity to implement the reforms. The risk exists that
institutional capacity may be inadequate for this task, but in response the Bank's proposed sector
projects should help ameliorate this problem. There is also a specific project risk which affects the
proposed SAL. The success of the structural adjustment program rests, to a large extent, on the
expansion of privatization and on the implementation of a strong enterprise restructuring process. It is
encouraging in this respect that the Government team demonstrated its commitment to this program by
liquidating a number of particularly distressed enterprises before final agreement on the proposed
Loan. The staff also ascertained during appraisal that SPC's anticipated budget appropriation for 1995
is sufficient to carry out its expanded volume of work involved the proposed program.



-27-
1.           Recommendation
98.          I am satisfied that the proposed Loan will comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Richard H. Frank
President ad interim
Attachments
May 9, 1995
Washington D.C.
m:\old\lberd%er\pr=ain3.fin






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 16
Mr. Lewis Preston
President                                                                    x t  Psr
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Preston,
Letter of Economic Reform Policies
1.            Kazakhstan has begun to implement a comprehensive structural reform program aimed at
moving toward a market economy. This program has been supported in 1994 by a Rehabilitation Loan from the
World Bank and Upper Credit Tranche Standby Arrangement with the IMF.
2.             Reforms have initially been implemented against the background of accentuated
macroeconomic difficulties. Inflation, which surged in 1992, accelerated to about 35 percent per month during
the first half of 1994. Meanwhile, GDP was declining at an average rate of 15 percent a year. Payment
difficulties throughout the FSU caused trade to collapse. Both import and export volumes of basic products
declined by 30-40 percent in 1994, and the country's trade balance widened from a US$600 million deficit in
1993 to an estimated US$940 million in 1994 equivalent to 7 percent of GDP. Fiscal policies proved unable to
counter inflationary pressures. The consolidated fiscal deficit was brought back from an average of 8 percent of
GDP in 1991-92 to 7 percent of GDP in 1994. But due to enterprise borrowing requirements, monetary
expansion did not abate before the end of 1994: broad money grew at an annual rate of about 500 percent from
December 1991 through that date.
3.             Confronted with these difficulties, the Government decided to accelerate the reforms. The
tightening of finapcial policies (designed in consultation with the IMF) since the second quarter of 1994 is
already showing/signs of success: inflation dropped to 5 percent a month at the end of March 1995 and
industrial production has been bottoming out from September 1994. Also, depreciation of the tenge has been
curtailed: the national currency had been introduced at 4.7 to the dollar in November 1993, but had depreciated
to about 40 tenge per dollar by the end of May 1994. This rate has remained more stable, ending at 61.3 tenge
per dollar at the end of March 1995.
4.             The Government has also adopted a revised package of structural reform measures, which is
described in the remainder of this letter. The new phase of structural reforms seeks to achieve decisive progress
in the following two areas: (i) price reform and market develoRment with a view to allowing the structure of
domestic prices to move towards international relative prices, and hence to provide efficient signals for
economic restructuring; and (ii) enterprise reform and restructuring to arrest the drain loss-making enterprises put
on shrinking economic resources. The private and financial sectors will be called upon to be the key agents of
this restructuring. This restructuring will be achieved through rapid privatization of industrial enterprises and
extension of the existing program to agricultural ones; opening up the economy to new private firms to become
a main engine of growth recovery; strengthening payment discipline and banking standards and containing of the
availability of credit to the largest loss-makers. With this program, labor shedding will be inevitable. Soinal



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 16
protection policies will therefore focus on ensuring the continued delivery of essential social functions currently
performed by enterprises and developing a safety net for the unemployed.
Price Reform and Market Develoipment
Pricing and Domestic Trade
5.              Energy. The Government has already taken significant measures to liberalize the price of
energy resources. The administrative pricing of crude oil producers was abolished in December 1994 and the
remaining profit margin regulations in April 1995. In addition, as part of the on-going process of restructuring
the organization of the industry, the individual oil producing enterprises are now free to market their output
directly to domestic and Russian customers rather than through a holding company intermediary. As a result of
these measures, effective average oil prices have increased to Tenge 2,000 per ton or 35 percent of export parity
prices at the end of 1 994 and to over 60 percent of export parity prices by the end of the first quarter of 1995.
In tandem with the liberalization of crude oil prices, the Government has revised the system of rental payments
to serve as a more efficient additional profits tax on the industry.
6.              Petroleum product prices were liberalized at the retail level in 1994. With the changing
competitive structure of the oil industry, the Government has recognized that controls on the margins of the
refineries and the bulk distribution of petroleum products will become increasingly redundant. Accordingly, the
explicit control of the margins of these industries has been abolished by the government. However, during the
transition to a fully competitive industry structure, the Government will continue to monitor the cost structure
and prices of the industry to guard against the exercise of monopoly powers. To further consolidate the price
reforms in the oil sector, the Government plans to remove the oil refining industries from the list of industries
subject to the monitoring of their cost structure and margins by the Price and Anti-Monopoly Committee by July
1995.
7.              Electricity prices have been progressively increased from Tenge 0.37 per kilowatt-hour to
Tenge 1.48 per kilowatt-hour on average during 1994. Electricity prices are now set by Kazakhstanenergo,
based on margins over operating costs, approved by the Price and Anti-Monopoly Commnittee, that enable it to
finance an adequate proportion of its planned capital investments from its profits. These allowable margins will
be updated on a regular basis. In addition, as part of the restructuring of the holding company
Kazakhstanenergo planned for mid-I 995, new tariffs will be established which will start differentiating between
different classes of customers and regions based on the costs of supply of electricity to such customers and
regions.
8.              For natural gas, the Government policy of allowing full pass through of the purchase cost of
gas will continue but margins on such costs at both the transmission and distribution levels will be subject to
periodic review and adjustment in line with procedures set by the Price and Anti-Monopoly Committee to ensure
that revenues of Kazakhgas and the gas distributors are adequate to cover operating and maintenance costs of
the systems.
9.              Agriculture. In 1995, the Government plans to complete the process of trade and price
liberalization in agriculture. By mid-1994, it had already cut the state needs program dramatically, eliminating it
altogether for non-grain products and reducing planned procurement of grain from seven million to five million
tons. In conjunction with the reduction in state needs purchases, further reforms of producer prices for state
needs were also introduced. Since state needs for non- grain products has been eliminated, the Government no



ANNEX 1
Page 3 Of 16
longer sets producer prices for these products. For grain products, prices were adjusted throughout the year for
inflation so that they remained constant in real terms at about 50 percent of world market prices. Bread, flour,
and animal feed price subsidies were eliminated in October 1994. The subsidies were replaced with a system of
targeted income transfers to low income groups.
10.             For 1995, Government has eliminated completely the compulsory system of delivery for state
needs and replaced it with a voluntary system of Government procurement for public consumption requirements
at competitively determined prices. Since the bread subsidy has been eliminated, public procurement will be
limited only to the needs of public institutions such as the defense forces, hospitals, and schools with total grain
purchases not to exceed 1,200,000 tons. Key elements of the revised public procurement procedures include: (i)
voluntary participation by producers; (ii) prices to be market based and competitively determined; (iii) prompt
payment upon delivery. Government procurement contracts will be tendered on a competitive basis to private
suppliers, who in turn will procure the grain at freely determined prices.
11.             Domestic contracts for the sale of agricultural goods can be placed directly or through
commodity exchanges.
External Trade
12.             The Governunent is determined to pursue the reform of its external trade policies with a view
towards aligning the structure of domestic prices with world market levels and promoting exports. To this end,
the Government put in place in January-February 1995, a package of trade measures, including the following.
Firstly, the Government completed the gradual elimination of export quotas: following a reduction in the number
of items subject to export quotas from about 90 in 1992, to 34 in 1993 and down to seven (coking coal,
petroleum, natural gas, ferrous alloys, manganese, ferrous and non ferrous metals) in April 1994, those
remaining quotas have now been eliminated. The right of access to export pipelines, after prior allocation to
fulfill existing contractual arrangements, will be auctioned. Secondly, the number of items subject to export
licensing requirements, which had declined from 61 in 1993 to 35 in April 1994, has been further reduced to 17
categories of goods, none of which represents a significant share of exports'; the role of export licenses is now
limited to the protection of the country's cultural, natural and scientific heritage, of its national security, and of
health and safety standards. Thirdly, the monopoly right on the export of 18 "strategic" commodities, granted in
1993 to eleven state trade organizations, was repealed as of February 1995, leaving producers of export goods
free to choose their preferred marketing arrangements and negotiate prices with prospective buyers.2 Other than
for selected agricultural goods, the only obligation placed on exporters is to report their contracts to the relevant
commodity exchanges and to the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Temporary measures have been taken to
prevent the dumping of selected agricultural goods (wheat, cotton, hides, wool). In these cases, price
commissions attached to the commodity exchanges, determine and publish on a regular basis minimum reference
prices, based on world market prices, and have the authority to reject contracts below such prices. These
temporary measures will be lifted by September 1995.
,,Licenses are required for exporting antlers, medicinal herbs, pharmaceuticals, chromite and ferro-chrome, rare
metals, rare earth, radio-active elements, objects of art and antiques, mineral and biological collectibles, hunting
trophies, rare species, precious metals, precious stones, arms and amunitions, military equipment and technology,
poisons and narcotics.
VSpecial regulations will apply however to exports of miliary goods, radio-active elements, precious metals, and
hazardous chemicals.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 16
13.            In addition, export duties, the level of which was already reduced from an average of 18
percent in 1993., to an average of 8 percent in early 1994, have been eliminated for steel, ferrous alloys,
chemicals, and light industries, including textile. And finally, the value added tax was extended to cover all
imports. In the same spirit, the Government is currently formulating a new system of natural resource taxation,
based primarily on profit instead of sales, which will be adopted during the first half of 1995. In conjunction
with the introduction of this new tax regime, the control on exporters' profit margins exercised by the Price and
Anti-Monopoly Committee, and the related fines, will be abolished.
Enterprise Reform and Restructuriny
The National Privatization Program.
14.            Non-Agricultural Privatization. The National Program for Privatization (1993-95) made
significant progress in 1994. By December 331, 1994, Small Scale Privatization program (SPP) sales reached a
total of approximately 2,893 establishments and 4,450 trucks in auctions. Surveys indicate that, compared with
state ownership, privatized enterprises provide more employment at equal or higher salaries and greater variety
of goods at the same or lower prices. The Mass Privatization Program (MPP) became operational in 1994. Over
97 percent of the citizens received their privatization coupons (PICs) and over 80 percent of them have already
invested a total of 25 percent of their PICs in 169 Investment Privatization Funds (IPFs). In 9 auctions since
April 1994, IPFs acquired state shares in over 550 enterprises. In the Case-by-Case component of the Program
(CbC), several sales to domestic buyers were concluded, 3 large sales transactions and one large management
contract with foreign firms were completed, and tenders for consultants were issued for the sale of 38 further
enterprises, including a number of enterprises of particular attraction to foreign investors.
15.             Progress to date demonstrates the Program's basic soundness, some technical implementation
problems notwithstanding. Fundamental changes or delays would result in a loss of credibility and momentum
at a critical stage. Therefore, the Government is determined to continue and expand the rapid transfer of state
property to private owners, maintaining the fundamental privatization principles of the National Privatization
Program, established pursuant to Presidential Decree of March 5, 1993, except for minor amendments as
specified below. Priorities in 1995 will be given to enhancing the supply of enterprises for the Program, to
streamlining the ownership transfer process, to "specification" and "personification" (issuance and registration of
shares to specific persons and entities) and strengthening ownership rights in privatized properties.
16.             For the Program as a whole to achieve these objectives the State Privatization Committee
(SPC): (i) has established a comprehensive database of enterprises and other objects and will ensure its updating
through improved reporting and monitoring mechanisms; (ii) has ensured a maximum supply of enterprises for
the Program in 1995 by including in the SPP (up to 200 employees) and the MPP (above 200 employees) all
majority state-owned enterprises except farms, those enterprises that extract non-renewable resources or provide
mainly public and social services, firms for which consultant tenders for CbC sale have already been issued, and
enterprises with more than 5,000 employees that are attractive to major investors; and (iii) has published for the
first quarter of 1995, and will continue to publish, on a quarterly basis, lists of enterprises to be privatized, such
lists to be considered open-ended (i.e., subject to revision and expansion). In addition, to accelerate the
Program, the Government: (i) has undertaken a review and will continue to monitor the corporatization process
and the registration of companies and the issuance and registration of shares; (ii) has and will continue to ensure
an increasing volume of properly issued and registered, freely tradeable shares for the Program; (iii) has halted
the practice of share allocation to employees before completion of share registration process; (iv) will provide to
the MPP auctions at least 51 percent of the shares of enterprises being auctioned, in keeping with the National
Privatization Program; (v) has abolished the fees for registration for sale of former state enterprises transformed



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 16
into joint stock companies, for increases of a company's charter fund and for share registration for sale; (vi) has
decided the establishment at the Ministry of Justice of a company registry for all companies, regardless of
ownership, freely accessible to the public; and (vii) has taken measures to ensure that, as of July 1, 1995, land
use or ownership rights are included in the balance sheet of enterprises prior to privatization (see para 37).
17.             Effective immediately, all privatization revenue will go to the budget. The 1995 budget
utilizes the proceeds to retire domestic debts and finance capital expenditures. In future years, the authorities
will continue such practice. To encourage their participation in the Program and support their undertaking of
social and public functions previously undertaken by privatized enterprises, regional and local administrations'
allocation of SPP revenue will be increased to 30 percent in the first revision 1995 budget.
18.             Specific measures will be taken to improve each of the Program's three components. For the
Small-Scale Privatization (SPP), by June 1995, the supply of establishments identified as eligible for offer in the
SPP will be raised to an expected 10,000 and the number of establishments in each month's auctions will be
increased to a minimum of 500 establishments. Major sources for the increase in SPP establishments are (i)
small scale establishments included in holding companies and segmentation of holding companies' subsidiaries
formed on the basis of numerous small scale enterprises; (ii) maintenance, supply and support establishments
attached to governmental institutions or enterprises not previously eligible for privatization (e.g., catering and
departments of workers' supply); and (iii) certain social objects such as cinemas. Over the same period the
supply of trucks will be raised to a total of 10,000, with at least 500 being auctioned per month by June 1995.
Existing regulations have been modified to permit the divestiture of wholesale firms as going concems, with
divestiture of an average of 8 such firms per month throughout 1995. Furthermore, a fundamental principle of
the SPP, i.e., the transfer of property rights to private owners who are free to use the property as they consider
most efficient, without restrictive conditions attached at sale, will be strictly enforced, except for a narrow list of
goods (primarily food and pharmaceuticals) for which supply requirements can be maintained until their markets
are fully liberalized. The Government has instructed all responsible entities that no further restrictions will be
imposed on objects upon their transfer. Starting immediately, to avoid unfairness, interest at the NBK
refinancing rate will be charged on overdue payments for SPP objects. SPP sales will continue to be conducted
through open auctions. The SPC has introduced specific norms for reducing reservation prices where objects
have failed to be sold, with a possibility of only nominal payment. "Addressed sales" (sales through negotiation
with specific parties) will be strictly limited to only those objects (i) for which no bids in open auctions, even at
nominal value were received, (ii) which are in remote places, and (iii) whose condition is poor. Objects subject
to addressed sales will be published in advance and opportunity to any person given to bid for tenders. Results
of addressed sales will be published.
19.             The Mass Privatization Program (MPP), an important cornerstone in the transition to a market
economy, has successfully commenced operations. In response to careful consideration of the MPP's
performance to date, a number of measures have been taken to facilitate the operation of the IPFs, ensure an
appropriate supply of shares to be sold against PICs so as to safeguard the value of the PICs to the citizens, and
improve the effect on enterprise governance. The supply of enterprises eligible for MPP to be offered in the
voucher auctions in 1995 will be increased to an expected 2,000. The average number of such enterprises
offered per month will be an average of at least 150 per month starting from May 1995. By July 1995, the
Government will adopt, after review, with the World Bank, a plan to auction at least another 10 percent of the
shares of firmns whose majority ownership will have been privatized under the MPP (fronm the "state packet").
20.             To facilitate better enterprise govemance and IPF operation, an IPF may acquire, in one or
more auctions, a total of up to 31 percent of the shares of an enterprise, and may invest an amount equivalent to
no more than 10 percent of its net assets in any one enterprise. The minimum time that an IPF must hold



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 16
shares in any one enterprise after acquisition has been eliminated. To maintain the public's support and
confidence, IPFs will continue to be restricted to purchasing and selling shares, PICs, and securities and will not
be permitted to engage directly in other activities such as trade or production. IPFs may not act as banks or own
banks, but may deposit their funds in commercial banks and otherwise operate comnmercial accounts in a bank.
Investments in the IPFs will continue to be limited to PICs except for such funds as are necessary for the
administrative costs of the lPFs' operations. The points noted in this paragraph, have been included in recently
adopted regulatory measures for investment companies.
21.             To maintain the integrity of the Program and to avoid the attachment of arbitrary values to
PICs, the Government will not take any action to attribute a monetary value to the PlC. In particular, cash or
Housing Vouchers will not be solicited or accepted by the Government for purchase of shares allocated for
transfer in exchange for PICs.  Sales transactions of state shares or assets for cash or for Housing Vouchers will
be kept separate from sale for PICs. IPFs will not be permitted to use Housing Vouchers for purchase of state
assers or shares or for any other purpose.
22.             Public participation in the transfer of ownership will be increased through the rapid
development of secondary markets for trading of shares in the IPFs and enterprise shares held by IPFs. The
Government has adopted interim regulations for the development of an open and transparent securities market.
The regulations cover public trading of shares including initial public offerings, and the regulation of market
intermediaries. The National Securities Commission (NSC} has been formed to regulate the activities of the
securities market participants. An independent, private stock exchange, the Central Asia Stock Exchange has
been formed. The Government has established a central share depository freely accessible to the public. A
stand-alone depository to undertake clearing and settlement, separate from the exchange, will be in place by
September 1995.
23.             For the Case-by-Case Privatization (CbC), the SPC has finalized criteria for determining, from
a current list of 129 large, unique enterprises, 24 enterprises for CbC international tender in 1995. SPC will
return to the MPP or SPP all firms that do not meet the criteria of the CbC Program. SPC will have issued, by
June 1995, consultant tenders for the sale of at least 10 enterprises, and will have finalized, by the end of 1995,
at least 10 major transactions.
24.             Agro-Industries. Government reform and restructuring of the agricultural marketing, processing
and distribution system will be accelerated and redirected in 1995. During the last two years, 14 state joint
stock companies were formed in the agricultural sector and 320 subsidiary companies were privatized in
accordance with the privatization program for agro-industrial enterprises. The program was essentially a
restricted process with access to shares limited to employees, input suppliers and the state. The basic share
distribution in the privatization of these companies has been 50 percent to the suppliers of the enterprises, 10-15
percent to the employees and the remainder held in state hands and managed on behalf of the state by the
relevant state joint stock company. An added feature of the program has been the provision of shares to
suppliers at discounted prices in exchange for long-term supply contracts.
25.             Government has now ended the distinction between the privatization of non-farm agro-
industrial enterprises and the program for industrial firms and the closed distribution of shares in agro-
enterprises. The remaining agro-enterprises not yet privatized will be included in the existing privatization
program for industry. Moreover, the remaining state shares in agro-enterprises already privatized will be sold in
the context of the existing industrial program. Finally, the practice of entering into long-term contracts in
exchange for discounted shares will also be discontinued.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 16
26.             Farms. Considerable progress was also made in 1994 in the privatization of state farms. The
process of privatization involved 853 state farms during the year bringing to 1,455 (two third of the total
number of state farms) the total number of state farms that are undergoing or have completed the privatization
process. The process in place since March 1993 involves the valuation of the state farm's non-land assets and
the distribution of shares of those assets to the state farm workers and pensioners. Similarly, the rights to land
are divided and distributed to state farm members. Meetings are then held with the members to agree on future
forms of farm management.
27.             The process preserves the farm workers rights at all times to take their land and property
shares and establish their own operation. They are also allowed to trade, or sell their shares and form whatever
organizational structure they deem best. However, the process of asset valuation, and share distribution for both
land and non-land assets has lagged considerably. Thus decisions about management structure has often
proceeded in the absence actual share distribution. As a result the process of realignment of farm assets has
been severally impeded and, in the majority of instances, the farm workers initially have opted to stay together
in a form of collective management with basic organization and management structures left unchanged from the
state farm. This situation is exacerbated by the difficult economic environment that does not reward risk taking
and innovation.
28.             To accelerate and strengthen the farm privatization process in 1995, Government will place
continued emphasis on supporting the process of asset valuation and share distribution. Emphasis will also be
given to encouraging farm members to adopt alternative farm structures through the provision of information on
different farm models that are emerging form the process both in Kazakhstan and other countries in the FSU.
During 1994, two alternative approaches to improving farm management were tested. In one approach, some 52
state farm directors who had served more than 20 years have been given the opportunity to obtain a share of a
farm's non-land assets. In another approach, 21 state farms were sold for sale in closed auctions involving
citizens with education and work experience in agriculture. While these initiatives were designed to overcome
problems of collective management, Government recognizes that the closed nature of the process was
detrimental to transparency and equity. The Government will consider additional auction sales of state farms
but will ensure that the procedure is transparent and open and that the conditions attached to the sale are
minimized.
Demonopolization
29.             Holding Companies. The privatization program has also become a key instnrment in the
demonopolization of the economy. In recent years, over 80 holding companies (state joint stock companies,
national joint stock companies, and state holding companies) had been created covering approximately 1,700
enterprises. While the Government's expectation had originally been that such structures would help improve
enterprise governance, it now recognizes that many of these holdings constitute monopolistic structures which
stifle competition. The Government has taken legal measures to (i) halt creation of any additional holding
companies, (ii) prevent each holding company from changing its charter fund, transferring its capital assets or
shares or incurring debt, pending a decision as to its future by the Working Comnmission established by the
Cabinet of Ministers' resolution of December 27, 1994; (iii) review each company's legal status and where
necessary, restructure their capital accounts and re-register their shares to conform their capital accounts
(including share emissions) to economic reality (remove shares of subsidiaries from the holding companies'
charter fund and thus cancel the double issues of shares on the same assets); and (iv) prohibit the further
emission of shares (including cross-holdings and the participation in IPFs) by the holding companies or their
subsidiaries.



ANNEX  1
Page 8 of 16
30.             In February 1995, the Govermnent adopted, after review with the World Bank, a
comprehensive plan to dismantle holding companies and implementation has commenced. The holdings and
their subsidiaries are being put into the three categories with differentiated treatments, as described below.
All (potentially) competitive subsidiaries of holding companies will be fully privatized under the National
Privatization Program with no shares remaining with the holding companies. All eligible subsidiaries of at least
12 holding companies (at both the regional and local levels), will be offered in the SPP and MPP auctions, with
no shares retained under the holdings' control, by September 1995. At least 500 such holdings subsidiaries
(including both SPP and MPP enterprises) have been privatized up to the end of the first quarter of 1995. Prior
to privatization, holdings or their regional subsidiaries whose activities are eligible for privatization, but which
dominate whole sub-sectors or regions, or are administratively created monopolies, will be either disbanded or
divided into the most practical structures (e.g., regional terminals or warehouses will be made available as
common service facilities). By end-1995, holdings and regional subsidiaries which are natural monopolies or
administratively created monopolies, not currently eligible for privatization, will undergo structural
reorganization aimed at the most efficient governance. By the same date, all non-core commercial activities,
such as workers' supply and catering, will have been separated from the monopolies and put into the
privatization Program. The Working Commission is currently identifying such establishments in cooperation
with the SPC.
31.             The state shares of the remaining holding companies are to be supervised by SPC. Its
functions in this respect will be clearly defined by regulation by June 30, 1995. Sectoral ministries will not
exercise supervision of the state shares and the appointment of management. The top management team of
monopolistic holdings where the state controls directly or indirectly a majority of the shares will be retained
under a performance contract with limited duration (no more than 3 years) and specific financial performance,
restructuring, and privatization targets. The contracts will include incentives such as stock options in privatized
subsidiaries for timely fulfillment of these targets. Failure to meet the targets specified in the contract will be
penalized with the replacement of the management team. At least 6 such performance contracts will be signed
by June 30, 1995. In the event that the current management of some holdings is unwilling to sign such a
contract, a new management team will be assembled. The agency charged with supervision of state shares in
such firms, initially with technical assistance, will prepare, sign and monitor the fulfillment of these contracts on
behalf of the state. In all cases, all regulatory authority such as licensing, setting safety and human health
standards, inspection, etc. are being removed from holdings and transferred to relevant sector ministries, or other
governmental entities. Pursuant to resolution 1171 of the Council of Minister of October 19, 1994, the Price
and Anti-Monopoly Committee is charged with regulating the tariffs of those holdings or holding subsidiaries
which have been placed on the national register of natural monopolies.
32.             Grain Processing. During 1995, Government will place special emphasis on discontinuing the
involvement of Astyk, the State Joint Stock Company responsible for the grain sub-sector, in the milling,
processing, transport, and storage, and export of grain. This process will be accomplished through the
privatization of remaining state shares in all subsidiary companies that are currently under the management of
Astyk. The process will be carried out in two-stages. In the first stage, emphasis will be given to the storage
and assembly functions at the farm gate through completing privatization of the system of 364 grain elevators.
For elevators that have already been privatized in accordance with the current program, the remaining state
shares will be sold in the existing program of share auctions. Elevators not yet privatized could be sold either
through the mass or small-scale privatization. Plans for the privatization of all Astyk's subsidiaries elevators
have been drawn-up and reviewed by the Bank. Privatization of all elevators will be completed by August
1995, to the exception of those entities handling government consumption (see para. 10), which would be
privatized thereafter. The program will also focus on completing the privatization of flour mills, feed mills,
macaroni plants, and bakeries in a way that fosters increased competition. Design of the program will focus on



ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 16
identifying all independent enterprises within Astyk's holding structure and then privatizing them in the context
of the existing small-scale or mass privatization program. Design of the program has been agreed with the Bankl
and privatization of half of the flour and feed mills and macaroni plants will be completed by August 1995.
33.             Petroleum Distribution. Demonopolizing petroleum distribution is Government's second
priority. By July 1995, the Government will initiate the implementation of a plan involving the privatization of
60 percent of retail distribution sites and associated assets and 50 percent of bulk terminal facilities in each of
the three operating regions of Munai Onimderi over the course of 1995. This dismantling would be
accomplished through (i) the privatization of its retail distribution operations; (ii) the privatization of bulk
terminal facilities under conditions requiring their subsequent operation as common service facilities with non-
discriminatory access to all petroleum products wholesalers; (iii) the removal of all administrative restrictions on
the procurement of refined products by third parties from the refineries or toll-processing crude oil producers.
In the interim to the full privatization of all terminals, all depots under the control of Munai Onimderi or its
regional components would be operated as common service facilities. This will be accompanied by the
removal of all existing administrative regulations on petroleum product procurement from the refineries.
Land Market Development
34.             During 1994, Government has made a number of important reforms in the rights to land. A
series of decrees issued by the President and the Cabinet of Ministers in the first half of 1994 lay the foundation
for the development of land markets. These decrees define the rights to use and lease land and make it possible
to develop mechanisms for buying, selling, trading, donating and bequeathing the rights to use or lease land. By
permitting transactions in land rights, including mortgages, land will enter the market without violating the
constitutional mandate of the state to own all the land in the Republic.
35.             Government will now focus on ensuring that these newly established rights are clarified and
that the legal code is made consistent with the newly defined land rights. To this end, the Government will
adopt by September 1995, after review with the Bank, draft revisions to land legislation to be submitted to
Parliament prior to July 1995. It will make every effort to ensure that the legislation is adopted by Parliament
without delay. The revised legislation will: (i)clarify and define the various categories of property rights granted
under the recent decrees, including inheritable life tenure, right to use, and right to lease; (ii) describe the
circumstances under which each type of right can be granted and the procedures for granting these rights; (iii)
clarify and simplify the terms of transfer of rights to use or own land both from the state to private parties and
between private parties; and (iv) separate the functions of the state as owner/transferor of land from its function
as regulator of land use based on public policy. In clarifying the procedures for transferring land rights from the
state to private parties, this legislation will limit the state's discretionary powers and eliminate overlap in
decision making authority. Specifically, the respective responsibilities of the State Committee on Land
Relations and Land Planning, the State Property Committee and the oblast administrations should be clearly
defined. On separating the roles of the state as transferor and regulator, Government will undertake its
regulatory obligations on a uniform basis and not on a case-by-case basis so that restrictions on individual land
transactions will be minimized and consistently applied. In the transfer of land rights between two private
parties, the only role of the state will be to register and tax the sales transaction.
36.             Government will begin strenigthening and rationalizing the existing systems for registration and
valuation of real estate (land, fixtures, and immovable improvements attached to land) to foster efficient and
equitable real estate markets and alleviate potential conflicts over land rights. As a first step, Government will
submit a draft legislation to Parliament by July 1995 which will define in detail the procedures for registration
of real estate. The legislation will define the procedures for registration of all interests in real estate, including



ANNEX 1
PagelO Of 16
use rights, leases, mortgages, liens and easements. The legislation will establish the principle of public access to
the registry and will include the following: (i) registration procedures for all types of real estate, including rights
to apartments and other spaces in commonly owned buildings; (ii) the interests which may/must be registered;
(iii) the form in which the register will be kept; (iv) the legal effect of registration; and (v) the procedure for
adjudication of real estate and land rights.
37.             In the meantime, the Government has taken the necessary legal measures to include the right to
use (long term) or own the land employed in the companies' business activities in the balance sheet of all
companies which majority state-owned, prior to privatization. For enterprises already privatized (i.e where at
least 51 percent has been transferred to private parties), the use or ownership of land will be added to their
balance sheet and the value of the land rights, as fixed by the Land Committee in January 1995, will be
recovered at the first sale or transfer of the said land rights. These changes will not affect the companies'
shareholding structure.
Institutional Framework for Enterprise Restructuring
38.             The role of the'Govermnent in enterprise restructuring will be generally limited to setting the
incentive framework and legal environment for private owners and creditors sector to subject insolvent SOEs to
strict financial discipline and privatization or liquidation. In general, the Government will try to privatize
enterprises and leave restructuring to the new private owners. If non-sellable firms need restructuring or
liquidation then it will best be driven, on a decentralized basis, by banks and other creditors. Due to the still
limited capacity and experience of these creditors, however, central institutions will be needed to address the
most complex cases. Central institutions for enterprise restructuring and liquidation will be subject to strict
budget constraints; aim at privatizing firms during or after restructuring; and confine their activities to "passive"
restructuring, leaving major new investments to new private investors. In September, 1994, the Government
established a program titled "Financial Economic Adjustment, Restructuring and the Removal of Inefficient State
Enterprises". This program aims at the effective restructuring and privatization, or liquidation, of those non-
agricultural enterprises which are most highly indebted to the Ministry of Finance, failing to settle loans by this
ministry in connection with a netting of arrears in early 1994, or which constitute a particularly great burden on
banks and crediting suppliers. The process will be overseen by a newly created Interdepartmental Commission
for Rehabilitation and Removal of Inefficient State Companies, chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister.
39.             The program classifies state owned enterprises (SOEs) into four categories, each of which has
particular liquidation and restructuring consequences. Distressed "strategic" enterprises, which perform public or
social services and are not eligible for privatization, will continue to be financed from the budget. Enterprises
which, upon quick analysis are clearly insolvent and non-viable are to be quickly liquidated; as a start, the
Government has identified 8 enterprises and SPC has commenced liquidation procedures in March 1995, the
plants have been closed down and the staff dismissed with severance payments equivalent to two-months of
salary and made eligible for unemployment benefits.
40.             All other insolvent enterprises will be classified in one of several categories for restructuring or
liquidation. Approximately 20 large enterprises with the greatest debt burden will be assigned to the
Rehabilitation Trust (RT), established by the Ministry of Finance (see para. 47). About 30 enterprises will be
selected by a commercially operated Restructuring Fund, to be established with the assistance of the EBRD.
Small and medium enterprises will be dealt with by work-out divisions of commercial banks. The Government
as owner will not interfere in the enforcement of creditor rights. It is the financial institutions as creditors that
will act as agent for change and decide on the necessity of liquidation or the feasibility of and financing for
restructuring.



ANNEX 1
Pagel l of 16
41.             Since market-based skills for evaluating enterprises and restructuring and liquidation plans are
still limited, requiring the building of local capacity and replicable models, a Restructuring Advisory Unit
(RAU) will be established by February 1, 1995 attached to the Ministry of Economy. The purpose of the RAU
is the provision of professional advisory services to enterprises for the preparation of viability assessments,
restructuring and liquidation plans. Initially, the RAU, with support of foreign experts, will concentrate on
assisting enterprises who are required by the Rehabilitation Trust to submit and implement liquidation or
restructuring plans. The local capacity built in the process will create a basis for private advisory firms that can
assist other enterprises as well as the work-out units of banks. The RAU develop capacity for the preparation of
liquidations, including necessary segmentation, employment and contract terminations, resolution of various
liability issues (e.g., social and environmental), and selection of the best means of asset disposition.
42.             To facilitate the application and enforcement of financial discipline and radical restructuring, a
new Bankruptcy Law, satisfactory to the World Bank, has been adopted on April 7, 1995. The Law (or a
separate legislation) will include provisions for resolution of creditors' claims on a voluntary basis, thus
precluding protracted legal proceedings.
43.             To provide a clearer regime of property rights, facilitate restructuring through modem financial
transactions, and provide transparent mechanisms for enforcement of creditor rights without resort to courts, the
Government will, by August 1995, review existing laws and introduce measures required for secured
transactions that permit the use of all forms of property (movables/immovables, tangibles/intangibles, including
inventories and accounts receivable) as collateral for loans. Such measures will also include the necessary
mechanisms for registration of security rights, public access to registries and automatic enforcement of a secured
right upon default of the debtor, without any requirement to initiate bankruptcy proceedings.
Banking Sector
44.             Along side the private sector, the financial sector is expected to play a central role in the
adjustment and the development of the enterprise sector. One of the Government's main objectives is for the
banking sector to play an active role in the enforcement of financial discipline in the economy and to allocate
credit resources in a more efficient manner. For this purpose, the role of banks in the payment system will be
reinforced, the implementation of the monetary policy will be used as an important tool for disciplining the
banking sector and, as a consequence, its relations with its borrowers, the policies and procedures of the sector
will be reinforced and its governance will be strengthened. The objectives of this comprehensive adjustment of
the financial sector to the requirements of a market economy and the ways and means to achieve them are
detailed in the "Reform Program of the Banking Sector" that was adopted by the board of the National Bank of
the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBK) in October 1994 and approved by the President of the Republic on February
13, 1995.
45.             The Government recognizes that the recurrent accumulation of inter-enterprise arrears reflects a
lack of financial discipline in both the enterprise and banking sectors that is facilitated by regulatory and
technical weaknesses in the payment system. To avoid the resurgence of such arrears, the authorities have
decided not to conduct any new clearing operation involving Government or NBK financing and to overhaul the
payment system through the implementation of a short term and a long term restructuring programs. Moreover,
and to force the banking sector to play an active, instead of passive, role in the realization of inter-enterprise
financial transfers. First, banks have been instructed to fully and irrevocably guarantee, as November 1, 1994,
all payment orders they forward for clearance and settlement in the payment system. Second, the provisions
governing non-cash settlements and electronic payments that have been introduced in 1993 and 1994
respectively, will be revised and complemented by NBK instructions for all payment instruments before mid-95.



ANNEX 1
Pagel2 of 16
In this context, and as a priority, present limitations on the use of irrevocable letters of credit will be removed
and the use of tradable bank promissory notes will be introduced. Third, the legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework for the creation of clearing houses by eligible banks is being developed. It will also be completed
before the end of the first half of 1995. Fourth, banks have been instructed to consolidate the individual
correspondent accounts of their branches with N1BK in a single central account located in their headquarters.
This prerequisite for banks to adequately manage their liquidity and their interbank transactions has been
completed by most major banks; for the two banks with the largest networks this will be completed during
1995. No bank is allowed to open a new branch before this consolidation is completed.
46.             The strengthening of the financial discipline of the banking sector is also being reinforced by
the impact of measures introduced for the implementation of the monetary policy. The access to the credit
auction system, that channels to the banking sector NBK liquidity (other than directed programs) and, since
September 1, 1994, the resources of the People's Bank, is also already strictly limited to banks that comply with
all prudential regulations. Less than a third of existing banking institutions have, at present, access to these
resources. The recent introduction of Treasury bills auctions will also enable banks to get the collateral required
for accessing NBK refinancing facilities through a Lombard window, created at the beginning of 1995. Directed
credit programs were abolished in February 1995. Starting from June 1, 1995, the Government and the NBK
will introduce incentives systems for collecting outstanding directed credits, based on collaterals and collection
bonuses.
47.             The first and indispensable step for banks to start implementing adequate credit policies and
procedures is to put all their branches under their exclusive and total control. The centralization of their
liquidity management through the consolidation of their correspondent accounts will already enable them to
monitor on a daily basis the financial situation and transactions of their network. Moreover, banks were
instructed, at the end of 1994, to centralize all risk taking decisions above a low and compulsory level in a
central credit committee located in their headquarters, and to introduce credit, internal control and intemal audit,
procedures meeting minimum compulsory requirements. The banks have also been required, as of January 1,
1995, to set up central work-out units that will be in charge of managing their large non performing loans and
controlling the management of the smaller ones that will remain at the branch levels. This activity is facilitated
by the recent introduction of out-of-court procedures for the foreclosure of the assets of defaulting borrowers and
for the restructuring of non performing loans (see para. 42). More generally, the ten largest banks will be
required to implement detailed and time-framed financial and institutional development programs based on the
results of on-going comprehensive diagnostic studies. This approach will be progressively expanded to a larger
number of banks. The implementation of these measures will be supported by technical assistance, twinning
arrangements and training programs financed by extemal donors and will be systematically monitored during
bank examinations and external audits. The terms of reference of examinations performed by NBK supervision
department and the State Financial Control Committee, and of annual external audits will be amended
accordingly during the first half of 1995.
48.             Existing commercial banks cannot be expected, however, to force and control the economic
and financial restructuring of all distressed borrowers, especially the largest ones. In order not to jeopardize the
financial condition of the banking sector that are described in the above paragraphs, the authorities have decided
to create a Rehabilitation Trust. The latter will take over the existing risk exposure of the banking sector on 20
"non-strategic" firms with the largest amount of arrears. The Presidential Decree ordering establishment of this
institution has been signed on March 29, 1995, and the charter of the Trust and the list of enterprises to be
assigned have been adopted. This institution will be the sole source of banking credit for the said firms. It will
finance only the operating deficit of those finns, on a declining basis, in order for these enterprises to stop
accumulating arrears and to allow maintenance and such remedial actions as are necessary to prepare for



ANNEX 1
Pagel3Of 16
privatization or liquidation. Access to its resources will be conditional upon the presentation and
implementation of restructuring programs, aimed at privatization, or of liquidation procedures, in a maximum
period of four years. The total resource available to the Trust for new lending to designated firms will be
limited below the amount of bank and govenmment credit received by these firms in 1994, annually and the said
firms will be prohibited from increasing their stocks of receivables and payables. The 1995 budget includes the
budget appropriation required for this institution to meet its objectives, based on a realistic assessment of the
financial condition of enterprises assigned to it and a funding mechanism (including through potential
government guaranteed domestic financing) satisfactory to the World Bank. The Trust will operate on a fully
autonomous basis, under the sole control of its Board, and will use Turan Bank or another bank as its agent to
implement all its financial and monitoring activities. By July 1995, the Trust will be fully operational with the
accounts of designated firms to it, its budget appropriation executed. And by September 1995, legal proceedings
for liquidation or other forms of debt resolution under the Bankruptcy Law will have been initiated against an
initial batch of 4 enterprises. Pending the approval of restructuring plans by the Trust, the Government will
refrain from financing or guaranteeing the financing of any new investment by designated firms.
49.            The govemance of the bank}ing sector will be reinforced by the progressive strengthening of
the prudential regulations and of their enforcement and by the enhancement of NBK supervision and
intervention capabilities. The prudential framework has been substantially improved during 1994. It was being
complemented by the introduction, during the first half of 1995, of ceilings on single and aggregated open
foreign exchange positions, compulsory classification of risk assets accompanied with related provisioning
requirements, that will be phased-in in a realistic and enforceable manner. NBK on-site examination capacities
are being developed through the implementation of an intensive training program and with the forthcoming
external assistance of experienced bank examiners. NBK interventions in banks that do not comply with the
legal and regulatory framework have been accelerated since late 1993. During 1994, twenty two small banks
have been closed and binding restructuring programs have been introduced in some larger ones. NBK
intervention capacity for problem banks will be further facilitated, in early 1995, by the introduction of required
amendments in the National Bank Law and the Banking Law and the issuing of two directives that will specify
the responsibilities and the rights of NBK, and the procedures for the restructuring and the liquidation of such
banks, respectively. These measures will be complemented, in 1995, by the introduction of comprehensive bank
extemal audit requirements, a compulsory licensing scheme for auditors to be accepted by NBK as bank
auditors, and the continuation of the annual financial and institutional audits of the ten largest banks of the
country by international auditors that was launched in 1994. The strengthening of the governance of the
banking sector will also be facilitated by the pursuit of the on-going very prudent licensing policy and the rapid
consolidation of the sector that will take place in 1995 as a consequence of the deadlines for the banks to
comply with the recent increase of the minimum capital requirements and their indexation on the US dollar. It
will also be facilitated by the transfer of the voting rights attached to shares held by public enterprises in banks
to the Ministry of Finances, which has already been enacted in 1994. This will be further enhanced by the
Government's swapping the shares themselves against bonds in 1995, and by the progressive privatization of
these enterprises.
Social Protection
Minimum Social Guarantees to the Population
50.            The fundamental objective of the present social policy of the Government is not to allow the
aggravation of living standards of vulnerable segments of the population. Regarding issues of social protection
of the population, the Government will be considering all aspects of the social safety net and, within these, to



ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 16
link improvements in benefits and services to necessary structural reforms. The two immediate priorities are to
improve unemployment benefits to deal with the projected growth in unemployment and to safeguard essential
health and education services previously provided by enterprises. The Government will target its assistance to
the low income groups most adversely affected by price liberalization. Social assistance will be provided
depending on the average income per family member.
Unemployment Benefits
51.            The Government is extremely concerned about the social effects of the major increase in open
unemplovment which has already begun and which is forecast to accelerate in the months ahead. It is
recognized that labor mobility needs to be increased and that workers should move from inefficient activities to
new areas of productivity and economic growth. The Government is aware, however, that at present, the system
of unemployment benefits has several weaknesses: the level of benefits is too low to provide any significant
relief for the unemployed (or inducement for employees to accept retrenchment), the system of their
administration is unduly complicated; and the eligibility for unemployment benefits is overly restrictive in some
ways. The structure of tnemployment benefits also needs to be reconsidered in ways which will protect those
most in need while avoiding work disincentives for other groups.
52.            To address this situation, the Government will carry out a series of reforms. First,
unemployment benefits will be restructured into three levels. The basic rate will be increased to three times the
minimum wage, as approved by legislation, by June 1995; and will be linked to this amount.3 Workers
retrenched from industrial enterprises will receive either 2 or 3 times the basic rate depending on the worker's
previous earnings or other suitable employment-related criteria. Unemployed workers in the agricultural or
budgetary sectors will receive either I or 2 times the basic rate, again depending on the worker's previous
earnings or other suitable employment-related criteria. Students who are leaving post-secondary education will
receive the basic rate. Particular attention will be paid to the needs of school leavers who will be provided with
alternative means of assistance, such as training or public works employment, rather than eligibility for
unemployment benefit. Some long-term unemployed will be entitled for unemployment benefit after the existing
6-month period, but additional eligibility criteria for this group will ensure that assistance is directed only to
areas and groups least able to find employment. People without any work history or who chose to leave their
employment voluntarily are not eligible for unemployment benefits. There will be small additions in the
unemployment benefit rates paid for training and public works activities. The pension rights of retrenched
workers are also being protected. This improved benefit system will allow the obligation of employers to make
severance payments to be discontinued.
53.            Second, the administration of the Employment Services will be improved. Access to
registration and eligibility for unemployment benefit will be eased by changing the functions of the existing
Commissions, which will act in special cases only. Normally decisions for eligibility to unemployment benefit
will instead be handled by the Employment Service staff themselves. A "work test" will be introduced to
ensure that anyone receiving unemployment benefit continues to be available to work if a suitable opportunity
arises.
54.            Third, the financial administration of the Employment Fund will be changed and its financial
viability enhanced. Low priority activities (including for any wage subsidies and job creation through credit
3The amount approximates the minimum level of compensation currently paid to employees in the budgetary
sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 16
schemes) have been discontinued. The use of the Employment Fund for non-employment activities has also
discontinued and the expenditure for the Fund is now being made in accordance with the Republican Program of
Employment and the current labor market situation; however, the Fund will be used to finalize some
expenditure, estimated at 250 million tenge related to immigration but this will be completed by the end of
1995. The revenue base for the Fund will be broadened; the standard rates of contribution by employers will be
extended to the agricultural and budgetary sectors by June 1995; and an employee-based contribution will be
introduced over the same time. The levels of both employer and employee contributions will be determined
from time to time after a careful and continual monitoring of the Fund, in the light of developments in the labor
market, to ensure its continuing viability as an independent Fund.
Enterprises Social Assets
55.             Furthermore, the Govemment recognizes that some basic social services need to be transferred
from enterprises to local authorities in order to facilitate the process of enterprise restructuring, and also to
ensure the continued operation of essential social services with significant public benefits (particularly basic
health care and education) for the general population. However, it also believes that some social services
previously provided by enterprises should be privatized or restructured, and that the management of existing
social services by local authorities should be rationalized as part of the social asset divestiture process. It also
recognizes that the issue of enterprise divestiture of housing and related infrastructure should be addressed
within the overall context of housing and related infrastructure reform and development. In order to address the
issue of the divestiture of essential social assets and services, the Governrnent will: (i) complete the inventory of
enterprise social assets in all oblasts by September 1995; and (ii) design a comprehensive national strategy for
the divestiture of enterprise social assets in all oblasts over the course of 1995, to be reviewed with the World
Bank.
56.             In designing these plans, the Government will adhere to the following principles: (a)
enterprises will not be obliged to continue operate social services currently under their control; (b) local
administrations will be required to ensure the continued delivery of social services deemed essential,
relinquished by enterprises, within a rationalized system of social service provision; (c) local administrations
have the right to take over social assets from state enterprises if and where they believe it is in the interest of
the community to do so; (d) the standards and norms of the divested social services should be unified with those
of comparable services run by local authorities; (f) the Government will develop a set of revised principles
covering access to essential social services it operates or finances; (g) cost recovery will be introduced as
appropriate by the local authorities in order to complement the resources available to them, but systems will be
designed to protect the poor and ensure that basic social services remain accessible to them; (h) at the local
level, temporary arrangements will be explored between the enterprises and the local authorities so that part of
the incremental cost accruing to the latter may be covered by the enterprises where possible; and (g) non-
essential services, relinquished by enterprises, will be sold or closed down, and this divestiture will be carried
out under the authority of the SPC.
lmplementation Arrangements
57.             Implementation of this program will be coordinated by the Apparat of the Cabinet of Ministers.
The latter will report regularly to the World Bank on the progress achieved. Procurement, disbursement and
accounting tasks under the Loan will be assumed by the Project Implementation Unit, established within the
Committee for Foreign Capital Utilization under the Cabinet of Ministers.



ANNEX 1
Page 16 of 16
58.           To support the program of economic reform laid out in this letter, the Government of the
Republic of Kazakhstan is requesting a Strictural Adjustment Loan from the World Bankl in an amount of
US$180 million.
Sincerely yours,
Viktor Sobolev                               Daulet Sembayev                    /
Deputy Prime Minister                              Chaiman'
Republic of Kazakhstan              National Bank- of the Republic of Kazakhstan



Attachment:   Structural Adjustment Loan  - Policy Hatrix                                   page 1 of 5
OBJECTIVE                                                                        POLICY ACTION
(Polcy conditions, for Board and 2nd Tranche release, are underUned)
Achieved before this Program                         By Board                                 By 2nd Tranche
A.  THE FRAMEWORK FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
1.    Developing Competitive Markets
1.1   Liberalize exports             Items under quotas cut from 34 (in 93) to 7    Eliminate export uuotas                  Eliminate minimum reference prices for
Items under licenses cut from 61 (in 93) to  Abolish export monopolies                 export of selected agricultural commodities
35                                        Reduce export licenses to 17 listed items    Adopt profit-based natural resource taxation
Export duties cut from 15 % (in 93) to 8 %
1.2   Domestic competition and       Elimination of administrative pricing and
pricing                        related consumer subsidies
1.2.1. Dismantle holdings in key sectors  About 15 % of holding subsidiaries partially    Adowt a demonopolization plan to dismantle  Implement blueprint to fully privatize Astyk
privatized in MPP                         holdines by:                                 (grain holding) subsidiaries:
(a)    Grain (dominating the                                                    (i) in the majority of cases, privatizing fully  (i)  auction all train storaee facilities
agriculture sector)                                                      competitive subsidiaries eligible for the NPP,     (elevators) (except those required for
thereby hollowing out the holding company;       government consumption)
(ii) in minority of cases, where subsidiaries are    (ii) auction half the number of flour, feed
naturaUadministratively created monopolies (or   mills, and macaroni plants
(b)    Petroleum products distribution                                          ineligible for NPP), segmenting holdings into  AdoPt and initiate implementation of plan to
separate units. Introduce management         dismantle Munai Onimdeiri (petroleum
performance contracts to dismantle these units  distribution holdine) incl. privatization of
over time. SPC to manage state share. AMC to  60% of retail outlets and 50 % of bulk
regulate tariffs of natural monopolies.      terminal facilities
Management contracts for at least 6 of
remaining holding companies to be signed
1.2.2  Reduce government              State needs restricted to grain only in 1994  Adopt system for competitive procurement of
purchases/introduce competitive                                           prain. satisfactory to the Bank
procurementfor state needs
Introduce reeulations to permit domestic and
exwort contracts made on the commodity
exchanges or directd between traders



Attachment:   Structural Adjustment Loan  - Policy Matrix                                       page 2 of 5
OBJECTIVE                                                                            POLICY ACTION
(Policy conlditions. for Board and 2nd Tranche release, are underlined)
Achieved before this Program                           By Board                                   By 2nd Tranche
1.2.3 adjust energy pricing
a. Oil
crude Allow crude oil prices to move   Crude oil price increased to import parity  For crude oil, abolish the system of vrescribed
toward export parity            level                                        ceilinms on margins as a basis for price-settine:
products                                                                           Adjust royalties accordingly
Capture undue windfall at the
refining and distribution levels
b. Ot4er Energy Restorefinancial      Regular price adjustments      ,             Revise pricing formula to allow for sufficient  Update allowable margins
viability of energy                                                          margin over operating costs                    Initiate price differentiation based on cost of
utility/encourage efficient use                                                                                             supply
2.    Facilitating Entry and Exit of Filrms
2.1    Small Scale Privatization (eg.  see below (privatization)                   see below (privatization)                       see below (privatization)
trucking/wholesalers)
Stimulate small businesses
2.2    Land reform                     Private farm land tenure is recognized (April   All enterprises are incorporated with land they  Approval by Cabinet of draft revised land
Facilitate and secure access to  1993)                                       use: land right is added to corporate assets of  legislation for submission to Parliament
land                             Urban and rural land rights are made        already incorporated firms and value recovered
transferable (April 1994)                   from privatized obiects upon first sale
Approval by Cabinet of draft registration
legislation for submission to Parliament
2.3   Foreclosure and bankruptcy      Bankruptcy law  submitted to Parliament      Adoption of revised bankruptcy law             Revised laws on secured transactions to allow
facilitate exit                                                                                                              all assets as loan collateral
Restructuring\liquidation program adopted   Legal liquidation procedures initiated against an
initial set of 8 distressed enterprises, their
Initial set of distressed enterprises designated   operations terminated and staff dismissed, in
for liquidation                             accordance with Prevailing laws
B.    THE INSTRUMENTS OF ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
1.    Privatization                       Accelerate the transfer of ownership and strengthen its impact on enterprise governance
1.1    National Privatization program
(NPP)
1.1.1  Strengthen supply of objects to                                              Establish list of all enterprises with state share  Update database
be privatized                                                                Include in NPP all eligible objects
Publish roster of objects to be privatized     Update roster



Attachment:   Structural Adjustment Loan  - Policy Matrix                                       page 3 of 5
OBJECTIVE                                                                            POLICY ACTION
(Poliey conditions, for Board and 2nd Tranche release. are underllned)
Achieved before this Program                            By Board                                  By 2nd Tranche
1.1.2  Accelerate mass corporatization    Over 6,000 incorporated as joint-stock   Abolish fees on enterprises incorporation and
companies since mid-93                      registration for sale
Ban distribution of shares before satisfactory
incorporation
Draw up measures to accelerate share titling and
registration
1.1.3  Improve performance of Small    Sales of 2,900 establishments and 4400       Allocate 30% of SSP proceeds to local budgets    Increase supply of:
Scak Privatization(SSP)          trucks by end 1994                                                                                * establishments to 10,000 and
Prohibit profile restrictions (except for a few       average number in each monthly
basic goods for limited pereiod)                      auction, between negotiation and 2nd|
tranche release, to 500
Charge NBK refinance rate on overdue                  * trucks to 10,000 and average
privatization payments  .                             number in each monthly auction.
Remove existing SSP restrictions to allow sales       between negotiation and 2nd tranche
of wholesale companies as going concerns              release, to 500
* wholesale companies in monthly
auctions to 8
1.1.4  Enhance the impact of the Mass    Vouchers distributed to 97 % of population  Maintain the fundamental parameters of the NPP   Increase pipeline supply of enterprises to
Privatization Program (AfPP)                                                                                                2,000, and raise average monthly auction
180 Investment Privatization Funds created  Maintain existing regulations of Investment    supply. between negotiation and 2nd tranche
Privatization Funds (IPFs). exceot allow IPFs to:   release. to I50.
Auction of 51-90 percent of shares in 330   *      acauire 31 % of an enterorise:
enterprises                                 *      invest up to 10% of its assets in any   Adopt a satisfactory Plan to reduce to less
sindle enterorise                       than 30 percent the Government's
*     abolish minimum time IPFs need to        shareholding in firms previously privatized
retain shares                           under the MPP.
Adopt regulatory framework for secondary
market of shares issue under MPP
1.1.5  Improve Case by Case            3 large transactions completed               Finalize criteria for selecting some 25 enterprises  SPC finalized at least 6 major transactions
Privatization                                                                for CbC to prepare tenders during 1995
Tenders for consultant issued for 38 more
.1.6  Discourage vertical integration                                              Include agro-enterprises in the mainstream of
of agro-industries                                                           National orivatization program
1.2   Farm Privatization               1,455 state farms privatized (66% of total)                                                 Accelerate process of asset valuation and
quicken private sector                                                                                                      tiding
participation in agriculture                                                                                                 Sales of non-land assets only through open
procedures



Attachment:   Structural Adjustment Loan  - Policy Matrix                                    page 4 of 5
OBJECTIVE                                                                         POLICY ACTION
(Policy conditions, for Board and 2nd Tranche release, are underlined)
Achieved before this Program                          By Board                                 By 2nd Tranche
2.    Financial Discipline                        Harden enterprises' budget constraint
2.1   Strengthen inter-enterprise     Public utilities allowed to cut off supplies to   Instruct banks to guarantee fully and irrevocably   Remove limitations on use of letters of credit
payment discipline             delinquent payers                          payment orders they process                    and introduce usage of tradable promissory
notes
Initial liquidations underway             Consolidate bank branches' correspondent       Complete consolidation of correspondent
accounts with NBK (with selected exceptions)  accounts
2.2   Improve overall liquidity       Credit auctions expand to 30 percent of NBK   Maintain restricted access to NBK credit auctions
management                     Is central credit resources                to banks in good prudential standing
Interest rate on directed credits aligned with    Directed credits eliminated            Introduce incentives (collateral, collection
auction rate                                                                             bonuses) to collect outstanding directed
credits
First auctions of T-bills                 Create rediscount window, fully secured with T-
bills
2.3   Strengthen prudential regime    Improved prudential standards (capital     Instruct all banks to centralize their credit  Introduce:
adequacy and liquidity ratios, single      decisions and procedures, above a prescribed        Revised rules for NBK interventions
borrower exposure, minimum capital)       threshold
introduced (April 1994)                                                                        Provisioning rules; and external audit
requirements
Access to auctions restricted to banks in good  Introduce compulsory classification of risk assets
prudential standing
Closure of 36 (out of 200) defaulting banks    Transfer to MoF of SOE voting rights on banks'
boards
2.4   Force financial restructuring of
defaulting borrowers                                                                                                    Banks to establish central workout units to
manage non-performing loan portfolio
2.4.1 For the general case
2.4.2  Largest distressed       Creation of Rehabilitation Trust decided  Creation of a Rehabilitation Trust (with 4 year  Rehabilitation Trust to be ooerational:
borrowers                                                           life, and with approved first year fundine explicit  accounts of desienated firms transferred:
in 1995 budeet) and assien to it at least 20  1995 budeet appropriation executed: and
enterprises for passive restructurine or     leeal proceedines. for liquidation or other
liauidation                                  form of debt resolution available under the
Bankruptcv law, initiated aeainst an initial
group of at least 4 enterprises



Attachment:   Structural Adjustment Loan  - Policy Matrix                                      page 5 of 5
OBJECTIVE                                                                           POLICY ACTION
(Policy conditions, for Board and 2nd Tranche release, are underlined)
Achieved before this Program                           By Board                                  By 2nd Tranche
C.    THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
1.    Unemployment Benefits
.1   To protect the livelihood of the  Sporadic indexation of unemployment       Release Employment Fund from sequestration of   Enact legislation to reform the unemployment
unemployed                      benefits                                    expenditures                                   benefit system, including:
(i) Fixing and indexing base value of benefit
to minimum remuneration in the budgetary
sector
(ii) Compressing differentials of benefits to 3
multiples of the base value, with amount paid
reflecting previous earnings/level of
employment;
(iii) Terminating low priority programs under
the Employment Fund;
(iv) Introducing a I % employee payroll
contribution;
(v) Extending employer contribution to
agricultural and budgetary sectors
see also complementary policies under the
Social Protection Project
2.    Enterprises Social Assets
2.1   To rationalize the delivery of   Study initiated with World Bank assistance                                                Design a budgetary mechanism to finance
social services                                                                                                           social services divested by enterprises, and
review it with the World Bank
see also complementary policies under the Social  see also complementary policies under the
Protection Project                            Social Protection Project
m:\beu=drdlerI\pTrix.fin
Aprl IS. 1995






Annex 2
page 1 of 2
Table 1. Kazakhstan: Key Economic Indicators, 1992-95
Indicator                                                  1992         1993         1994         1995
GDP at constant prices (% change)                         -13.0        -15.6        -25.0        -11.0
Consumer Prices
(period average, % change)                             1,381        1,571        1,826         165
(end of period, % change)                             2,567         2,166        1,048          40
Wages and Social Benefits (tenge, end of period)
Minimum WagelPension/Unemployement Benefit 1/             2           30          260          900
Real Minimum (December 1991 = 100) 1/                    10             7           5           13
Average Wage                                             27          384         3,392        4,291
Real Average (December 1991 = 100)                      110           70           60           59
Exchange Rate (tenge per U.S. dollar)
(period average)                                          ..          2.8         36.1         69.4
(end of period)                                                       6.3         54.3         78.0
Budget (% of GDP)
Revenues and Grants                                     24.6         23.3         17.1         15.9
Expenditures                                            31.4         24.7         16.8         18.9
Lending minus Repayment                                  ...          ...          7.1          2.3
Extra Budgetary Funds Balance                           -0.5          0.1         -0.2          0.3
Overall Surplus (+), Deficit (-)                        -7.3         -1.3         -7.0        -4.1
Foreign Financing                                        4.3          0.3          1.6          3.9
Domestic Financing                                       3.1          1.1          5.4          0.2
Foreign Trade
Exports (constant prices, % change)                       ..        -26.8        -36.6         -4.3
Imports (constant prices, % change)                       ..        -29.5        -28.1         -5.1
Source: Goskomstat, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, and staff estimates.
1/ In 1994, including T60 additional allowance extended in conjunction with bread price liberalization;
in 1995, minimum unemployement benefit only.



Annex 2
page 2 of 2
Table 2. Kazakhstan: Medium - Term Balance of Payments Outlook, 1992-2000
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
1992     1993     1994     199S     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
Current Account                -145     -740     -875   -1,166   -1,036      -982     -721     -573     -672
Trade Balance                   97      -658     -805     -954      -921     -793     -470     -288     -365
Exports                      4,197    3,449    3,285    3,417    3,787    4,126    4,756    5,361    5,743
Imports                     -4,100   -4,107   -4,090   -4,371   -4,708   -4,919   -5,226   -5,649   -6,108
Services Balance               -410     -137     -166     -308      -221     -305     -379     -426     -462
of which Interest            -175       -20      -44     -314     -281      -251     -225     -201     -180
Unrequited Transfers            168       55       96       96      106      116       128      141      155
Capital Account               -105 -    684       975      478      841      853      846       828      813
Mediwn and Long Term Loans    -205       211      550      174      441      413      386       348      313
Disbursements                 233      412       777      518      731      740      740       740      740
Official                     163       33      357      258      420       400      380      360      340
Export Credits                70      379      420      260      311       340      360      380      400
Barter Balance                  0      -150     -165     -180      -75       -35       0         0        0
Amortization                  -438      -51      -62     -164     -215      -292     -354     -392     -427
Foreign Direct Investment       100     473       445      284      380      420      440       460      480
Short-Term Capital               0        0       -20       20       20       20       20        20       20
Errors and Omissions           -346     -267       68        0        0        0        0         0        0
Overall Balance                -597     -322      168     -688     -195      -129      125      255      141
Flnada                         597        39     -168      688      195      129      -125     -255     -141
Net Foreign Assets            589      -241      -84      -25     -195     -143      -204     -333     -221
o.w. IMF                        0       88       193      ...        0       -7      -88      -247     -161
Extraordinary Financing         8      280      -201      217        0        0        0        0         0
Counterpart Items               0      283       117       37      140      100       79       78        80
Financing Gap                   0        0        0       459      250      172        0        0         0
Memo Items
Gross Borrowing               1,083    1,188      992    1,264    1,051      932      760       760      760
External Debt (including IMF)  n.a.    1,848    2,796    2,671    3,437    4,050    4,348    4,449    4,601
Debt Service Ratio             14.6      2.0      3.2     14.0      13.1     13.3     14.0     15.7     13.4
For. Reserves (mil. US$)       226      640      1203     1476    1,671    1,807    1,923    2,009    2,069
For. Reserves (wks. imports)    2.9      8.1     15.3     17.6     18.5      19.1     19.1     18.5     17.6
Source: Goskomstat, Ministry of Economy, and staff estimates.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Kazastan
Structural Adjustnent Loan
Project Support to Implementation CaDacitY
Policy Objective      |                      Implementing                       |            Project Support
Institution                      l_l
A. THE FRAMEWORK FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
1. Developing Conpeidve Markets
1.1    Export Liberalization    Ministly of Economy\ Ministry of Industry and Trade   [
1.2    Domestic competition    State Property Committee\ Ministry of Economy            Petroleum Technical Assistance
1.2.2  Energy Pricing        Ministry of Oil and Gas\ Price and Anti-Monopoly Committee  Petroleum Technical Assistance
2. Facilitating Entry and Exit of Firms
2.1    Small Scale Privatiz.    State Property Committee                                Technical Assistance\ Finance and
Enterprise Development
2.2    Land reform           Land Committee                                             Land Titling
2.3    Closure and           Committee for Rehab. and Removal of Inefficient Enterprises  Technical Assistance\ Finance and
Banklruptcy          I_I Enterprise Development
B. THE INSTRUMENTS OF ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
1. Prwitiaton                                                                                                                  I
1.1    National Privatization    State Property Committee                               Technical Assistance\ Finance and
program                                                                          Enterprise Development
1.3    Farm Privatization    State Property Committee\ Land Committee                   Land Titling



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Kazalkstan
Structural Adjustment Loan
Project Suponrt to Inplementation Capacitv
Policy Objective      |                      Implementing                        |             Project Support
Institution
2. Financial Discipline                                                                                                         l
2.1    Inter-enterprise       National Bank of Kazakhstan                                Technical Assistance\ Finance and
Payment Discipline                                                                Enterprise Development
2.2    Liquidity Management   National Bank of Kazakhstan
2.3    Prudential regime      Commercial Banks\ National Bank of Kazakhstan              Technical Assistance\ Finance and
Enterprise Development
2.4    Financial Restructuring   Rehabilitation Trust\ Restructuring Advisory Unit       Finance and Enterprise Development
and Liquidation                                                                                                          l
C. THE SOCLAL SAFETY NET
1.     Unemployment           Employment Service                                         Social Protection Project
Benefits
2.     Enterprises' Social    Local Administrations                                      Social Protection Project
Assets
m:\brdeW1im&rm3.5
March 1, 1995



Annex 4
page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:                   9 months
Project prepared by:                     Government with the assistance of IBRD staff'
Pre-Appraisal:                           September 13-30, 1994
Loan Committee:                          December 14, 1994
Appraisal:                               January 5-20, 1995
Negotiations:                            April 10-15, 1995
Board Presentation:                      June 6, 1995
Expected Effectiveness:                  July 6, 1995
Closing Date:                            December 31, 1996
1/ This report is based on the findings of World Bank missions which visited Kazakhstan in September 1994 and
January 1995, to assist the Government in preparing the program and concurrently to appraise it. The
preparation team included Mmes./Messrs. Funck, seconded by O'Brien (Task Manager, External Trade); Lorch
(Enterprise and Financial Sector Reforms); Southworth (Agriculture); Grudzinska (Land and Enterprise
Reform), Crookes (Energy); Mills, Abrahart (Social Protection); Saba (Privatization); Ledoux (Banking Sector);
and Singer (Land Reform and Private Sector Development). Additional contributors included: Mme./Messrs.
Baietti (Privatization), Litvak (Energy) and Hanan (Social Protection). Messrs. Kadir T. Yurukoglu and Yukon
Huang are the managing Division Chief and Director, respectively for this operation.






Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Status of Bank Group Operations
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of March 31, 1995)
Loan No.   Fiscal   Purpose                           Amount in USS million           Last ARPP Supervision
Year                                       (less cancellations)                  Ratings
IBRD   Undisbursed   Development   Implementation
Objectives       Progress
3642-KZ    1994      Technical Assistance                 38.0            30.06        S                U
3649-KZ     1994     Rehabilitation                       180.0             .19         S               HS
3725-KZ     1994     Urban Transport                       40.0           40.00         -               S
3744-KZ     1994     Petroleum Technical                   15.7           15.70         -                S
Assistance*
Total:                              273.70           85.95
U: Unsatisfactory; S: Satisfactory; HS: Highly Satisfactory.
* Not yet effective.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1995)
Fiscal Year                Company                   Type of Business      Amount in USS million
Total      Undisbursed
1994                  ABN-AMRO                        Banking               2.0             0.0
1994                   Kazgermunai                   Petroleum              50.0             50.0
Total                                           52.0             50.0






MAP SECTION






- -  _                                                                                                                            - I I  I  .                  IBRR O  23700RR
50'                                   6_                                                                           800
7~                                          T.Obelynbenz        Toug          -;*           O.              -_T.O                              R U  S S  I A  N
- -TR U  S S  I A  N                                                                                                                                      l -  kA N
F E D  E R A  T I  O N- N-   - ',8l'~ 
rO 50mor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10                                                                                             T. 8-1>= 
T.R             KUN                                                   KUSTANAY               V
4                                       T. 01b                                                                                                                                              so <
FDAERAON \                           -
Er,NOGRA _E1PALATINSK                                                             ONYB S 0    :S9/  GOUA
A_ERBAUJAN                                                \CL f , T 9 H                                                      MKENTY  KYRGY Z               f r  A0
AKTYUBINSK ~ ~   ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        RPULI
ru~~~                 N                  To                                   K                         KAZAKHSTAN~~~EIVAZG
~o   rz       ~                   ~           #                5 >s12<    j                                            R  P U B l  C                 -^  _ Aral  Lkr 
41 2PQ   *     D:hiroi * _t  *    0 =  #            <~~~~~~~~ ROADS
50; LV P B                                                        D.                 A S                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
_TAJIKISTA)    NS  OSLARAILO CAD LS
KIIO0OEES ~    OF IRAN                                                                                 I      ,_ - .-. j  . INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
O______230__300_*D0__SD0________f_____                                                                                  \ ,-.:-K  O  L                                     ORLASTSROUNDARIRS
0   9 9 0  2 0 0   3 0 1      0 0M A                                   jA
PNUBRY I99






I



IMAGING
Report No; P-   6554 KZ
Type: PR



