Report No. PIC780
Project Name                   Kazakhstan-Economic Reform Loan
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Finance
Project ID                     KZPA8502
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Economy
National Agency for Foreign Investments
Contact: Mr. Kuat Jandosov
Tel: (7-3272) 624-952
Fax: (7-3272) 636-984
Date PID Prepared              September 19, 1994
Projected Board Date           March 14, 1995
Objectives
1.   The objective of the proposed loan is to support    the Government
in establishing the structural underpinning for stabilization to take
hold. It will support the country's balance of payments situation by
providing foreign currency to support the foreign currency exchange
market.
Description
2.   The proposed loan will include a program to achieve decisive
progress in two areas: (i) price reform and market development, with a
view to allowing the structure of domestic prices to move towards
international relative prices, correcting distortions in the terms of
trade for productive sectors, reducing rent seeking, and opening up
the economy for the entry of private firms to become engines of growth
recovery; and (ii) enterprise reform and restructuring, to arrest the
drain loss-making enterprises put on the economy, and to subject
enterprises to tightened financial discipline through rapid
privatization, restructuring/ liquidation, and improved governance of
state owned enterprises. Actions in two related fields would be used
to support realization of this program. Financial sector reforms
would be used to harden the budget constraint faced by enterprises by
strengthening payment discipline and streamlining liquidity management
instruments, enforcement of stricter prudential rules, and containment
of credit availability to large loss-making enterprises. Social
protection policies would help to lessen workers' resistance to
enterprise restructuring by ensuring the continued delivery of
essential social functions and developing a safety net for the long
term unemployed. They would also be used to prevent the pauperization
of other non-productive segments of the population by indexing minimum
benefits and maintaining a modicum of self-targeted consumer
subsidies.
Implementation
3.   Overall management of, and coordination for,   project
implementation would reside in the Ministry of Economy. Implementation
of the key program measures will reside primarily with the Ministries



of Economy, Finance, Agriculture, Labor and Social Protection (trade,
price reform, credit to state owned enterprises), and the National
Bank of Kazakhstan (credit, prudential regulation). Procurement,
disbursement and reporting procedures will be delegated to the
National Agency for Foreign Investments.
Costs and Financing
4.   The project cost is estimated at US$150 million, and will be
financed by a loan from the World Bank.
Environmental Aspects
5.   The project would not have significant environmental effects and
has been classified as a Category C project.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



