Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3900 KZ
                               Loan Agreement
                        (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                                   between
                           REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated June 12, 1995
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3900 KZ
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
KAZAKHSTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) The Bank has received from the Borrower a
letter dated May 5, 1995, describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
      (B)   On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches
as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to
read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities
      that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
      pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
      Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing
      Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
      between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall
      prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
      and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
      on the execution of the program referred to in the
      Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
      under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Loan.";
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the term "SITC" means the Standard International
Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
34/Rev.3 (1986).
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred eighty million
Dollars ($180,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
Page  3
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."
            "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
      Quarter."
            "(c)   (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Borrower shall, to the extent
practicable, consolidate withdrawal applications under the Loan
so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less
than one million Dollars ($1,000,000).
                                 ARTICLE III
                            Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from
Page  4
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange
views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after
the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any
action taken under the Program, including any action specified
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
         (i)       have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appro-priate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
        (ii)       furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six (6) months after
                   the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                   the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                   have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)       furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)       maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
        (ii)       retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents, or customs certificates,
                   as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
       (iii)       enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
        (iv)       ensure that such records and accounts are included
                   in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
                   of this Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
Page  5
                   to whether the statements of expenditure
                   submitted during such fiscal year, together
                   with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation,can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                       Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Borrower's Minister of Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            97 Ablai-Khan Avenue
            Almaty, 480091
            Republic of Kazakhstan
                                     Telex:
                                           251 245 FILIN
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
Page  6
                         By /s/ Tuleitai Suleimenov
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                    Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups
under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank
by notice to the Borrower:
      Group        Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                -           Alcoholic beverages
      121                -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                     refuse
      122                -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                     or not containing tobacco sub-
                                     stitutes)
      525                -           Radioactive and associated
                                     materials
      667                -           Pearls, precious and semi-
                                     precious stones, unworked or
                                     worked
      718                718.7       Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                     thereof, fuel elements
                                     (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                     for nuclear reactors
      728.43             -           Tobacco processing machinery
      Group        Sub-group         Description of Items
      897                897.3       Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                     platinum group metals (except
                                     watches and watch cases) and
                                     goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                     wares (including set gems)
      971                -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                     gold ores and concentrates)
Page  7
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for
expenditures, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of thirty six million Dollars
($36,000,000) may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after February 15, 1995;
      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts less
than five thousand Dollars ($5,000) equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or
agency other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than three million
Dollars ($3,000,000) may be permitted by the Bank upon the
basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of ninety million
Dollars ($90,000,000), unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program; (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement have been taken; and (c) that the macro-economic
policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the Program, as measured on the basis of
indicators satisfactory to the Bank.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory
to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                            Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
      beginning February 1, 2001
      through February 1, 2012                  7,500,000
On August 1, 2012                               7,500,000
Page  8
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed as
                                     a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years                                 1.00
      before maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                                 Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of three million Dollars ($3,000,000) or more
each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth
in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992
(the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications and
additions:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
            "2.8 Notification and Advertising
                   The international community should be notified
            in a timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This
            will be done by advertising invitations to apply for
Page  9
            inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply
            for prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements
            should be placed in at least one newspaper of
            general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
            in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
           (i)     a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Business; or
          (ii)     an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or
         (iii)     a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21
of the Guidelines:
                   "As a further alternative, bidding documents
            may require the bidder to state the bid price in a
            single currency widely used in international trade
            and specified in the bidding documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are
deleted.
      (d)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of
the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Loan. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than three million Dollars ($3,000,000)
shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's
public procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on
the basis of such procedures, provided that such procedures
shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be
awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations
obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may
be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures
Page  10
acceptable to the Bank.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this
Schedule shall not apply to contracts on account of which
withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                   Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                       of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    Offer for sale through auctions under the National
Privatization Program established pursuant to Presidential
Decree No. 1135, dated March 5, 1993, all of the Borrowerþs
shares in the Borrowerþs grain storage facilities (elevators),
except in those facilities which the Bank agrees are required
to meet direct consumption requirements of the Borrowerþs
governmentþs agencies and entities.
2.    Adopt  a plan to privatize fully, within one year, in each
of the three operating regions of the Borrowerþs petroleum
product distribution companies, at least 60 percent of objects
in the retail distribution area and at least 50 percent of bulk
terminals belonging to such companies, and initiate the
implementation of such a plan.
3.    Adopt in the Borrowerþs Council of Ministers a proposed
land legislation for submission to the Borrowerþs parliament,
reviewed with the Bank, covering, inter alia, land tenure, use
and transfer.
4.    Offer for sale through public auctions an average of 500
establishments and an average of 500 trucks included in the
Borrowerþs Small Scale Privatization, established pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 1135, dated March 5, 1993, per calendar
month, following April 30, 1995.
5.    Offer for privatization through auctions against
privatization investment coupons only, a majority ownership in
an average of 150 majority state-owned enterprises designated
for the Borrowerþs Mass Privatization Program, pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 1135, dated March 5, 1993, per calendar
month, following April 30, 1995.
6.    Adopt a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce the
Borrowerþs ownership in firms included in the Borrowerþs Mass
Privatization Program referred to in paragraph 5 of this
Schedule 4, to less than 30 percent.
7.    Fund the 1995 operations of the Borrowerþs Rehabilitation
Trust, established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 2154,
dated March 29, 1995, in accordance with national budgetary
appropriation; transfer the bank accounts of all enterprises
Page  11
assigned to the Rehabilitation Trust to such trust; and
initiate legal proceedings for liquidation or other forms of
debt resolution available under the Borrowerþs Decree (Law) on
Bankruptcy No. 2173, dated April 7, 1995 against at least four
(4) such enterprises.
8.    Enact legislation providing for satisfactory scale of and
entitlement to unemployment benefits, with the minimum level of
such benefits being equal to at least three (3) times the base
numerate established pursuant to the Borrowerþs Decree  No.
2120, dated March 15, 1995, or any other law establishing said
base numerate.
