Document of                                 m         7
The World Bank                
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3568-COB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US;12.0 MILLION
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF T'HE CONGO
FOR A
WOOD PROCESSING PROJECT
May 11, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be w,ed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = CFAF 340    (Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.621 mile
1 meter (m)              = 1.0936 yards             = 39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (m3g       = 35.31 cubic feet         = 264 US gallons
1 square meter (m )      = 1.2 square yards         = 10.76 square feet
1 hectare (ha)           = 10,000 square meters   = 2.47 acres
1 Megawatt-hour (Mwh)   = 1,000 Kilowatt-hours
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS USED
Agro-Finance         = La Societe Agro-Finance S.A.
ATC                  = Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
BADEA                = Banque Arabe de Developpement des Etats Africains
BNDC                 = Banque Nationale de Developpement Congolaise
BCE                  = Base Cost Estimate
BOD                  = Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAR                  = Central African Republic
CFCO                 = Chemin de Fer Congo Ocean
CIB                  = Congolaise Industrielle des Bois
CIF                  = Cost, Insurance and Freight
COFACE               = Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance au Commerce Exterieur
CTFT                 = Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
FAO                  = Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAS                  = Free Alongside Ship
FOB                  = Free on Board
GDP                  = Gross Domestic Product
GNP                  = Gross National Product
ILO                  = International Labor Organization
KfW                  - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OCB                  = Office Congolais des Bois
Poyry                - Jaakko Poyr7y Oy
PPF                  = Project Preparation Facility
SCBO                 = La Societe Congolaise des Bois de Ouesso
SEAV INTERAGRA       - La Societe d'Equipments Agricoles et de Ventes Interagra
SEB                  - Saudi European Bank
SEDB                 - Societe Europeenne de Banque
SIDETRA              - Societe Industrielle de Deroulage et de Tranchage
Silos                - La Societe les Silos du Sud-Ouest
SOCOBOIS             = Societe Congolaise des Bois
SONATRAB             - Societe Nationale de Transformation de Bois
UFA                  - Unite Forestiere d'Aimenagement
UNDP /,              - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SCBO:  January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THI, CONGO
WOOD PROCESSING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The People's Republic of the Congo.
Main Beneficiary:       The Societe Congolaise des Bois de Ouesso (SCBO)
Amount:                US$12.0 million equivalent, including capitalized front-
end fee of US$0.03 million.
Terms:                  15 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:       US$10.5 million would be onlent by the Government to the
SCBO on terms equivalent to the IBRD loan to the
Government at 1.1 times the variable interest rate. The
SCBO would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
Project Description:  The main objectives of the project are to assist the
Congo to diversify its exports and promote the economic
development of northern Ccngo by establishing an
integrated logging and wocd processing complex. The
joint venture operating company, the SCBO, would manage
a 1.1 million ha forest concession and would log 100,000
m3 of timber per year.  Albout one-half of this would be
exported as logs and the remainder processed as sawnwood
and veneer, mostly for export as well. US$10.5 million
of the proposed loan would. finance investments in the
sawmill and veneer plant and technical assistance for
their procurement, engineering and initial operation.
The project would also support technical assistance to
Government services to help ensure the successful
regional integration of ncrthern tribal groups into the
project and to improve Government's forestry sector
management.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would help the Congo take a significant step
forward to increase the ccuntry's productive capacity to
exploit and export a major renewable natural resource.
It would also contribute to the development of Congo's
northern region, primarily through its employment
effects. The main risks to project implementation lie
in SCBO's management of start-up operations and in
transportation of its products to the Atlantic coast.
To mitigate these risks, the processing facilities would
be acquired as a single contract, including engineering,
installation and initial operation. The project also
provides for technical assistance to SCBO in the
procurement of this contract and in its subsequent
supervision.  Transport capacity constraints are being
alleviated by Bank-financed projects to realign the CFCO
Railway and expand river transport services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed ivithout World Bank authorization.



ii
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign   Total
Forestry Equipment and Housing                         1.41      6.33      7.74
SCBO Processing Facilities                             3.27      9.97    13.24
Technical Assistance for Engineering
and SCBO Management                                0.18       1.14      1.32
Technical Assistance for Forestry Sector
Management and Tribal Groups                       0.40       2.50      2.90
Working Capital                                       4.16       0.46      4.62
Refinancing of PPF P054                               0.05       0.75      0.80
Total Base Costs                             9.47     21.14    30.61
Physical Contingencies                       0.42       1.47     1.89
Price Contingencies                          0.94       1.99     2.93
Pre-operating Expenses                       1.59        -       1.59
Total Project Costs                         12.42     24.59    37.01
Tincluding US$0.71 million of
local taxes and duties)
Total Project Costs                         11.71     24.59    36.30
excluding local taxes and duties)
Interest During Construction                 0.63      4.91      5.54
Front-end fee                                 -        0.03      0.03
Total Financing Required                    13.05     29.53    42.58
Financing Plan
US$ million
Local    Foreign   Total
SCBO Equity and Retained Earnings                     9.41       4.35      13.75
Government                                            0.40       1.00       1.40
IBRD                                                            12.00      12.00
Saudi European Bank                                              4.40       4.40
Suppliers  Credits                                               7.78       7.78
Local Banks                                           3.24        -         3.24
Total                                           13.05      29.53     42.58
Estimated Disbursements                FY84           FY85       FY86       FY87
Annual                                  3.6            6.2        1.2        1.0
Cumulative                              3.6            9.8       11.0       12.0
Economic Rate of Return: 20 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4112-COB of May 11, 1983
Map: IBRD No. 16576



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO FOR A
WOOD PROCESSING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of the Congo for the equivalent of US$12.0 million to
help finance a Wood Processing Project. TPhe IBRD loan would have a term of 15
years, including four years of grace, at -;he standard variable interest
rate. US$10.5 million would be onlent on the same terms to the joint venture
timber company, la Soci6te Congolaise des Bois de Ouesso (SCBO), at 1.1 times
the variable interest rate. The Saudi European Bank (SEB) has extended a loan
of US$4.4 million directly to the SCBO (to finance forestry equipment and
housing) for 3 years, including 1 year of grace, at a variable interest rate
currently at 11.6 percent. A further US$8.0 million equivalent of suppliers
credits would be provided directly to SCBO for nine years, including two years
of grace, at an interest rate of 10.0 percent. US$3.2 million equivalent
would also be lent directly to SCBO by the Banque Nationale de Developpement
Congolaise for seven years, including 2 years grace, at an annual interest
rate of 13 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report entitled "People's Republic of the Congo-
Economic Trends, Current Issues, and Prospects" (Report No. 2213-COB) was
distributed to the Board on June 8, 1979. Its conclusions and the findings of
more recent economic missions are integrated into this report.
Structure and Potential
3.        With a population of about 1.6 million (1981 estimate) over an area
of about 340,000 km2, the Congo occupies a strategic position on a transport
corridor that reaches into Central Africa and provides the region with access
to the Atlantic Ocean at the country's second largest city, Pointe Noire.
Congo is prominent in Africa for its high urbanization (50 percent of the
population) and high school enrollment at all levels. The growth of per
capita GNP, which was modest prior to 1972, accelerated with the increase of
oil production since that year and by 198C had reached about US$900 (estimated
by Bank Atlas method).
4.        Until recently, the country has relied for growth on forestry, import
substitution manufacturing, transit and other transport services, and trade.
lfhile agriculture is still the most important sector in terms of employment,
absorbing about 35-40 percent of the economically active population, its share
in the national product has always been small and declining and now directly
accounts for less than 10 peroent of GD?. Timber production, which provided
1/ The text of this section is reprinted from the President's Report for the
Technical Assistance Project which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 5, 1983.



2
the bulk of exports during the late 1960s and the early 1970s and was a major
stimulant for the transport seotor, underwent a temporary decline in the mid-
1970s. Owing to depletion of readily accessible southern forestry resources
and marketing problems, the performance of this seotor has not yet recovered
to its previous high level.  During the second half of the 1970s, petroleum
production has become the most important contributor to the economy in terms
of value added. The level of gross value added in mining rose from 3 percent
of GDP in 1972 to more than 35 percent in 1981 (estimate).
5.       Given a favorable natural resources endowment relative to its size of
population and already high adult literacy and secondary school enrollment
rates, the country's development potential is promising, although there are
numerous basic constraints in the short and medium-term. Agricultural and
northern forestry resources remain largely unexploited. Little is known about
the precise magnitude of the Congo's non-oil mineral wealth, and the petroleum
potential itself is not yet fully explored. The country's river-rail-port
transport system, operated by the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
(ATC), needs further improvement and expansion to benefit the country as well
as neighboring countries; the rail and river systems are being improved under
ongoing IDA projects. The country's deteriorated and over-whelmingly
inadequate road network presents major constraints to development in
agriculture and forestry. Rehabilitation and development of transport
infrastructure in the interior, a major Government objective for current and
future investments, is seen as a means both to improve eoonomic and
communication links between the urban areas and the population of the
hinterland, and to open up what has been the economic backwaters for better
exploitation of available forestry and mineral resources as well as the
existing potential for agrioulture.
Past Performance
6.       In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the Government nationalized a
number of important private enterprises, and it engaged in new industrial
ventures financed mainly by suppliers' credits. The parapublic sector, with
about 65 enterprises, is now prominent in modern agriculture, manufacturing
and some services, though petroleum exploitation has been carried out by two
majority foreign-owned companies and private interests are still active in
forestry. The agricultural strategy has been focussed on the promotion of
state farms much to the detriment of private smallholder agriculture. Private
investments (except in the petroleum sector) stagnated following the progress
of nationalization measures, whioh made investment opportunities in
manufacturing less promising, and the future business conditions in general
became uncertain for foreign and domestic private investors. The rapid
expansion of the public sector proved to be muoh less successful than was
hoped for. Public enterprises did not have enough working capital or skilled
staff to maintain operational efficiency even when projects themselves were
well conceived. Overemployment in these enterprises also contributed to their
financial and operational decline.
7.       In these circumstances, Government financial support of public
enterprises as well as the general expansion of public sector employment, by
the beginning of the 1970s appeared to be leading to an unsustainable rate of
current public expenditure and insufficient allocation of domestic resources
for productive investment. The rise in oil production in 1973/74 together



3
with the quadrupling of oil prices not only temporarily eased the oountry's
overall financial situation but dramaticall;y raised expectations and made
external financing more readily available. Consequently, investment programs
were stepped up in very substantial measure; but even before completion of
some of the major new projects, the country's resource position was suddenly
reversed again. Starting in 1975, extraction problems of the main oil field
brought about a 25 percent drop in crude oi'l production. As a result of this
and other developments, real GDP fell by an average 2.5 percent a year during
1975-77 and the country entered a period of severe financial crisis.
8.       Although the Government in 1975-78 managed to restrain public
investments, it was not successful in carrying out needed reductions in public
consumption. During this period, treasury deficits averaged about 27 percent
of current revenues, or about 7-8 percent of GDP. After exhausting most
financing sources--including substantial net borrowing from bilateral sources
and the oil companies--additional domestic arrears totaling about 20 billion
CFAF, or 35 percent of budgetary revenues in 1978, were accumulated between
1975-1978. On the external accounts, the situation deteriorated in a similar
degree, with the current account deficit reaching 24 percent of GDP in 1978.
As this could not be covered by external capital or use of reserves, the
equivalent of US$65 million stood in arrears for principal and interest by
end-1978.
Stabilization and Recent Developments
9.       A set of financial stabilization measures were undertaken toward
successful implementation of the 1979 IMF Second Tranche Standby Program.
Government's actions included efforts to ottain rescheduling of debt service
obligations, compressing public demand and implementing selective tax
increases. By the end of this one year Standby period, the resurgence of oil
revenues permitted a significant reduction in the accumulated arrears, and
enabled the Government to keep new foreign commercial loans within the limit
agreed in the program while restraining pu'lic current expenditures.
10.      The 1979 and 1980 increases in crude oil prices have had a dual
effect on the Congo's resource position. Combined with the renewed growth in
the volume of oil output, the immediate financial consequence was a dramatic
increase of oil export revenues from US$21, million in 1978 to an estimated
US$1.0 billion in 1982, resulting in a favcrable balance of payments position
and rapidly growing budgetary revenues. Mcre importantly, higher prices have
also accelerated the exploration and develcpment of deposits previously
considered marginal because of high development costs.  Oil companies have
been executing investment plans to develop new fields by about 1983 and
available exploration data suggest that prcspects for continued investment in
oil production thereafter remain reasonably favorable. Should this
preliminary assessment prove accurate, oil production from already producing
or explored fields alone could rise steadily until 1985, achieving a level
more than double the 1980 output of 3.3 million tons and gradually decreasing
thereafter. Consequently, the country should now be in a much better position
to further improve its overall public sector financial situation and to
execute an appropriate public investment program.



4
Medium-term Prospects and Investment Program
11.      While the growth in recent years of oil production has notably
accelerated Congo's overall growth of per capita GDP, per capita income
generated by non-oil sectors has increased at less than one percent per year
over the last twenty years. In the face of a new, sustained petroleum boom,
the major medium and long-term issue for the Congo is how to transform the
proceeds of its oil wealth into higher, sustained growth of the non-oil
economy if it is to avoid substantial contraction of its national income in
the late 1980's.  It must both stimulate growth in the non-oil productive
sectors and improve its physical and social infrastructure in support of that
growth, while minimizing if not eliminating the drain of the public enterprise
system on the country's financial resourses.
12.      A Five-Year Development Plan for 1982-86 was approved by the
Government early in 1982. The overall target for public investments is set at
CFAF 1100 billion ($3.2 billion) implying an average investment rate of about
43 percent of 1981 GDP, compared with an average rate of 15-20 percent
achieved in the previous five years. The Government recognizes, however, that
such a program cannot prudently be financed unless oil revenues turn out
substantially higher than presently foreseen, and that absorptive capacity and
external debt capacity will be major determinants in the setting of realistic
anu_ targets.  Thus, the Plan is essentially of an indicative nature and the
law provides for its annual revision. This is being carried out in the light
of changes in prospective oil revenues and, in relation to these, of the
implicit future debt charges of new borrowings abroad. Recent discussions
with the Government indicate that these revisions are designed on the basis of
realis-tic assessment of the country's resources and absorptive capacity.
13.      Regarding the sectoral composition of the Plan, its principal thrust
is in physical infrastructure, and specifically, in investments outside the
Brazzaville - Pointe Noire urban corridor. The strategy seems to be, in
implicit recognition of the severe short-term limitations on the absorptive
capacity of the commodity producing sectors, to capture the opportunity of the
sudden and perhaps short-lived oil wealth, to set the stage for a desired
reversal of the historic trends of migration to the cities, and for creation
of better economic opportunities for agricultural and other activities in the
more distant regions.
14.      About 60 percent of the indicative Plan investments are allocated to
areas outside the major cities and to projects, mainly roads, to oonnect the
urban corridor with the large and sparsely populated interior in the north.
Many rural programs for social infrastructure, water, energy and public
administration appear overscaled and lacking economic justification. About 36
percent; of Plan investments are allocated to agriculture, forestry and
industry. Except in forestry, prime emphasis is given to investments in the
state enterprise sector, even though the performance of that sector has
consistently been discouraging. The majority of these enterprises have
suffered chronic operating deficits and none has been able to finance needed
new investments from retained earnings. Programs for the rehabilitation of
public enterprises and creation of new ones are large, though the plan of
action so far seems to consist mainly of a reinjection of funds, and more
concrete measures to reduce over-employment, rationalize pricing, and improve
management and accounting, remain in most cases to be worked out.



5
Sectoral Development and Policies
15.      The Government's efforts to develop the agriculture sector have
produced poor results. State farms and rar,ches have been the main instrument
for the promotion of food and livestock production. They have been poorly
run, however, and their continued operatior. means subsidies.  Their operating
efficiency has been adversely affected by inefficient state marketing
organizations. At the same time, the activities of nationalized agro-
4          industrial enterprises have seen a dramatic fall.  Partly because of these
failures, and partly because of the ready availability of foreign exchange
recently, there appears to have been increasing reliance on imported
foodstuffs. The current Government policies in this sector do not envisage
significant departures from the past, and limited attempts to revitalize
smallholder food crop production and cash crop production, coffee and cocoa,
are not yet producing an adequate impact.
16.      Industrial activities have expanded modestly, largely owing to the
small domestic market. Exceptions to this are wood processing, textile, and
beverage production where foreign participation plays an important role. The
country possesses a good potential for agrc-industrial development based on
locally produced raw materials including forestry resources. Government
policy in these areas is becoming more oper than before in accommodating
foreign investments and management contracts needed to supplement yet limited
domestic entrepreneurial and managerial skills. The growth of smaller and
less formal industrial activities has been very limited as the state
enterprise sector continues to receive Government priority, a process that has
tended to stifle what limited domestic entrepreneurship would have been
available. The Government will need to formulate more specific measures to
encourage this sector which also constitutes a key area for longer-term
generation of productive urban employment.
17.      In urban areas, where 80 percent of Congo's GDP originates, improved
infrastructure will be indispensable for the growth of urban-located
productive sectors and their labor force. At present, power distribution,
urban roads, and water and sewerage systems are highly inadequate and partly
derelict. The main constraint at present is lack of institutional capacity to
execute and maintain existing and new facilities.
18.      Transport and communications, service and trade activity continues to
account for a significant share of GDP (24 percent in 1980) and major public
investments with assistance from external official agencies were made during
the seventies to maintain and upgrade the system which is now operated by
ATC. Completion of the CFCO re-alignment expected in 1984 will result in
significant expansion of the Congo's transportation network. Outside this
corridor, however, communications are very poor.
Creditworthiness
19.      The Congo's outstanding public external debt (excluding undisbursed)
is estimated to have reached about CFAF 444 billion (or about US$1,288
million) by end-1982. The debt service ratio is estimated at about 22.6
percent for 1982, and is expected to increase to almost 30 precent in 1983,
following the recent adverse price movements for petroleum, and to stabilize



6
thereafter at about 25 percent. External debt service obligations are being
met satisfactorily and there have been improvements in handling these matters
in the Govenment budgetary process. Gross international reserves were
restored to a level of seven weeks equivalent of goods and non-factor services
imports early in 1982, but they have declined by more than half since then.
The current level of reserves is still satisfactory given the Congo membership
in the Central African Monetary Union and the importance of oil sector imports
for which the necessity of official reserves is marginal.
20.      The outlook regarding the future creditworthiness of the country
depends on the assessment of additional future petroleum production from
possible new fields, the Government's ability and willingness to tune
development programs to changing circumstances, and its performance in
managing the public sector financial affairs. Recent macro-economic
discussions with the Government led to an understanding that the 1983/84
public investment program should for the time being remain significantly below
the indicative targets of the Plan; that its subsequent expansion, if any,
should be contingent on an upward revision of future prospects of oil exports;
and that the annual review of the Government's financing plan should be guided
by ceilings on the ratio of annual debt service to future Government current
receipts. Pursuance of these policies would be a major factor towards
ensuring the country's long-term creditworthiness. Given these developments,
and in light of the relative firmness of present projections of oil output and
oil revenues from existing fields, and of the progress to date in again
bringing order into the system of public finances, the country is considered
creditworthy for the loan proposed in this report. The country's prospects,
investment performance and overall creditworthiness will continue to be
closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CONGO
21.      The Bank Group's commitments in the Congo now amount to US$175.2
million from five bank loans (US$101.4 mill  n) and ten IDA credits (US$73.8
million).  Ten loans and credits totalling 7 $89.8 million have been fully
disbursed. Past operations have been desigred mainly to assist the country's
efforts to improve its basic transport infrastructure, better exploit its
natural resources, and upgrade the educational system. Rail, river and road
transport represent the largest share of past commitments (64 percent),
followed by mining and petroleum (22 percent). Annex II contains a summary
statement of Loans and Credits as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Several projects in Congo have incurred
problems in implementation, which have sometimes centered around the project's
design and more often around institutional weaknesses of the entity executing
the project. Annual disbursement rates for Congo have shown a substantial
improvement over the last five years and now compare favorably with other
countries.
22.      In addition to the realignment of the CFCO railway under the Second
Railway Project, ongoing projects consist of: an education project which
focusses on improving the quality of the educational system and reorienting it
to meet the country's human resource needs; a petroleum technical assistance
project to improve sector management; a river transport project designed to
increase the efficiency and capacity of river transport services and a highway
maintenance project to increase farm-to-market access and the efficiency of



7
road maintenance operations. With the recent conversion of the Bank's lending
terms from IDA to IBRD, a new country strategy has been designed which aims to
assist the Congo to maintain its creditworthiness and to transform its growing
petroleum revenues into a broad productive base for sustained economic
growth. A technical assistance project scheduled for Board Presentation later
in May 1983 represents a fundamental part of the implementation of this
strategy.  In addition, the Wood Processing Project presented in this report
is mainly designed to increase the exploitE&tion of the country's timber
resources as a means to diversify its exports, promote regional development
*          and help to ensure that the projected timber traffic for the rail and river
transport system materializes as anticipated. Sector and project preparation
work are underway in anticipation of Bank support in Congo's key non-oil
productive sectors, industry and agriculture, and in vital water supply
infrastructure.
23.      On April 14, 1981, the IFC approvesd its first loan to the Congo
totalling US$3.5 million to support a US$15.6 million project to modernize the
existing veneer plant of Placongo and to expand its logging capacity. IFC's
investment consists of a US$0.5 million loan convertible at IFC's option into
equity shares of the company and an additicnal loan of US$3.0 million.
Implementation of the project is currently delayed as the company has decided
to delay expansion of production capacity until such time as it has been able
to reorganize its capital structure. IFC also approved an equity
participation in a promotional company which is currently studying the
feasibility of establishing a pulp mill in Congo. Results in the study are
expected to be available later in 1983.
24.      Throughout 1976-81, gross international public capital inflows
(including debt refinancing and budgetary support) amounted to about US$680
million. At the end of 1982, the outstanding disbursed debt stood at US$1,288
million, of which 10.3 percent (US$133 million) was held by the Bank and
IDA. The Bank's and IDA's share in the public debt service is estimated at
2.8 percent for 1982 and an average 2.1 percent over the 1983-87 period.
PART III - THE WOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRY
Structure and Potential
25.      Apart from the petroleum sector, which constituted an estimated 49
percent of Congo's 1982 GDP and 84 percent of its merchandise exports, the
main potential for increasing and diversifying Congo's exports resides in
*          forestry.  An expansion of logging and wood processing, particularly in the
north, is consequently a primary objective of the Government's 1982-86
Development Plan. Tropical hardwood forests cover about 21 million ha or 60%
of Congo's terrain. Some 13 million ha, or 62 percent, are generally
considered to be commercially exploitable, with an estimated potential annual
yield of 2 million m3. Some 4.5 million ha with a potential yield of 0.5
million m3, lie in the south. These relatively accessible forests have been
exploited since the 1940s and commercial species are rapidly becoming
depleted. The northern region comprises about 8.5 million ha, with a
potential 1.5 million m3 annual yield.
26.      Total Congolese log production fell from 751,000 m3 in 1972, to
310,000 m3 in 1975, then gradually reached 527,000 m3 by 1981.  The proportion



8
of logs processed has grown from 37 percent in 1972 to 57 percent in 1981 and
the nature of such processing has become more sophisticated - only sawnwood
and peeled veneer were produced in 1972; plywood was added in 1980 and sliced
veneer production was introduced in 1981.
27.      By 1981, thirteen sawmills, four peeled veneer plants, one sliced
veneer plant and one plywood plant were operating in Congo. Of these, only
six processed more than 50,000 m3 of logs annually.  Four of these larger
operations are foreign-owned, the other two being joint ventures between the
Government and private foreign partners. The proposed project falls in the
latter category, as SCBO is 51 percent owned by the State and 49 percent by
private foreign partners. There are also two purely public entities involved
in wood-processing.
28.      Although little data is available, these public and joint sector
enterprises are generally characterized by unsatisfactory technical and
financial performance. As with almost all public sector enterprises in Congo,
they suffer from poor management and maintenance, and capacity utilization is
somewhat lower than the 60-65 percent national average for the industry. In
addition, their performance is adversely affected by their location in the
south or southwest of the country where: (a) there are raw material shortages
due to heavy past depletion; (b) log deliveries have often been adversely
affected by irregular and unreliable rail services (now being upgraded by the
Second Railway Project); and (c) those with processing facilities in the
Pointe Noire region have been experiencing regular power outages.
29.      Only two of the existing enterprises, both privately and foreign-
owned, are located in the north. The basic advantage of this area over the
south, the abundance of marketable timber, is reduced by its isolation and the
lengthy transportation lines. Both firms are situated within 60 km of the
proposed project's site, and currently produce 65-80,000 m3 of logs
annually. They have recently obtained enlarged forest concessions and will
expand to about 100,000 m3 a year by 1986. Both currently operate sawmills
(one in Brazzaville and one at the northern site) of about 12,500 m3 of output
annually and both, as part of their enlarged concession agreements, are
obliged to expand mill capacity to about 30,000 m3 of sawnwood a year.
Government Policies and Future Development
30.      The development of forestry resources has been a high priority since
the early 1970s in the Government's plans for Congo's economic development. A
long-term Forestry Development Plan for 1973-84 was formulated and radically
new forestry legislation (considered to be among the best in tropical timber
producing countries) was introduced in 1974. The basic objectives of the
Plan, which have been reiterated in subsequent plans, were to: (a) develop
Congolese human capabilities in timber production and forestry management; (b)
increase! Congolese investments in production facilities, while attracting
sufficient foreign participation to ensure their technical and economic
success; and (c) increase local participation in tlmber marketing.  Results,
however, have been disappointing. The Office Congolais des Bois (OCB),
established in 1975 to increase national log export marketing and which was
accorded a monopoly for this purpose, has not substantially increased local
marketing capacity. Foreign investment has been sluggish and an OCB-managed
credit to state enterprises and small local producers to acquire logging



9
equipment has neither led to the increased production anticipated nor
generated revenues sufficient for them to repay the credit.
31.      Efforts are, however, underway to reverse these trends.  Technical
assistance is being provided under the River Transport Project to diagnose
weaknesses in OCB's operations and recommend changes. Forestry and tax
legislation is being revised to increase incentives to foreign investors.  The
Government is also taking concrete steps to promote further expansion of
forest industries. In particular, three concessions have been demarcated in
*         the Sangha region around Ouesso and a prefeasibility study carried out under
Bank financing. Detailed feasibility studies for two of the concessions have
led to the preparation of this project and the possibility of a second project
in the form of a Congolese-Algerian joint venture with proposed BADEA
financing. A feasibility study of the third concession is ongoing and studies
of two concessions in the country's northern-most region of Likouala are
planned. The Government has also recently concluded a management contract to
rehabilitate the only public timber company in the north, which failed in
1975. If ultimately put into production, these new concessions could double
Congo's annual log production to about 1 million m3, within the next 8 to 10
years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.      The project was identified by a Bank mission to Congo in 1976.
The Bank undertook in 1978 a study of Congo's forestry sector to provide a
framework for a policy dialogue and agreed to finance under a Project
Preparation Facility the prefeasibility study upon which this project is
based. Potential foreign partners were sub3equently sought by the Government
and in 1981 discussions began on the formation of the company to operate the
proposed project. In April 1982, the proje3t was appraised and negotiations
were held in Washington on May 2-4.  The Co:ngolese delegation was led by H.E.
Henri Djombo, Minister of Water and Forestr;y. Key events and special
conditions are listed in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report (Report No.
4112-COB of May 11, 1983) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Description
33.      The main objective of the project is to help establish a viable
timber production and processing complex in northern Congo so as to diversify
the country's export structure and promote :cegional development. The project
also aims to strengthen the Government's capacity to manage the overall
development of the forestry sector and to p:-omote the integration of the
tribal pygmy population in the vicinity of ',CBO.
34.      The project would mainly include the provision of
a) logging equipment, staff housing,
b) civil works and a turnkey package for the engineering, erection,
initial operation, and staff train-±ng for a sawmill, veneer plant and
auxilliary equipment;
c) consulting engineering services to assist SCBO in the selection of
the turnkey supplier and in the subsequent supervision of the
contract;
d) technical assistance to support forestry sector management and the



10
pygmy population; and
e) the refinancing of Project Preparation Facility (PPF) No.P0541.
35.      SCBO.  The operating company for the production complex is the
Societe Congolaise des Bois de Ouesso (SCBO), a company established in
Brazzaville in November 1981 as a joint venture between the Government (51
percent), La Societe Agro-Finance (Agro-Finance) of Luxembourg (45 percent),
and La Societe les Silos du Sud-Ouest (Silos) of France (4 percent). SCBO has
been awarded a 1.1 million hectare concession near Ouesso, in northern Congo,
upon which an integrated logging and wood processing operation is to be
based. Logging has already started, and production of 50,000 m3 of logs is
expected for 1983. At full operation, 100,000 m3 of of high value hardwood is
expected to be logged annually, of which 41,500 m3 would be exported as
logs. The remaining 58,500 m3 of logs would be processed to produce 23,000 m3
of sawnwood and 4,200 m3 of veneer each year.
36.      The main component of the project would include the engineering,
construction and initial operation of a sawmill and veneer plant.  The sawmill
would al; full operation process 50,000 m3 of logs annually, working on two
shifts five days per week. This represents about 50 percent of the potential
theoretical capacity and is readily obtainable. The veneer plant would
Drocess 8,500 m3 of logs each year (slicing them into vpneer sheets). The
technology proposed for both logging and wood processing is well-known in West
Africa, and the species to be utilized are processed extensively in other
parts of Africa and in Europe. In view of the plant's remote location, both
it and t-he mill community would be self-sufficient in power by utilizing waste
wood and full maintenance facilities would be provided.  The project also
provides for the construction of a river quay for barge traffic, a water
pumping station and staff housing to accommodate all 540 employees and their
families.
37.      The lead foreign partner in the project, Silos, while experienced in
international marketing and in operating other projects in the Congo, has no
direct experience in wood processing. Thus, the senior SCBO operating staff
has been recruited internationally and all have experience in West African
forestry and wood processing. The plants themselves would be procured with
appropriate guarantees as a single turnkey package, including engineering, and
initial operation but excluding civil works. Consultants would be hired to
assist SCBO in the procurement of this package as well as in the supervision
of its implementation. Training for all employees would be conducted on-the-
job by their line foremen and managers. This type of training is appropriate
for operations of this type, and conforms to the Government's training
standards in the sector as set out in the Forestry Development Plan.
38.      Ouesso is approximately 1,500 km from the coastal port of Pointe
Noire. Local transport would represent almost 50 percent of the domestic cost
of SCBO's products, making transport services an important issue for the
project. The project's output is to be shipped from the plant's quay near
Ouesso -to Brazzaville by river, then by rail from Brazzaville to Pointe Noire.
The CFCO railway Linking Brazzaville and Pointe Noire is currently operating
close to capacity. The Second Railway Project is financing the realignment of
an 88 kn section through mountainous terrain, improving maintenance
organization and increasing rolling stock. This is expected by late 1984 to
ease capacity constraints and to meet the timber traffic demands of the SCBO



11
and other operators. Inadequate management and insufficient transport
equipment have also made river transport services an important constraint to
expanding timber production in the north. Steps are now being taken, however,
via the ongoing IDA-financed River Transport Project to improve the river
transport system and provide new floating equipment to meet the additional
medium-term timber traffic demand from the north. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that it would regularly monitor the transport
system's capacity and ensure that further investments would be made as
required to meet projected demand (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
*         Agreement).
39.      With the exception of 3,000 m3 of sawnwood, the logs, sawnwood and
sliced veneer produced by the project would be destined for export markets
where it would be typically used to manufacture furniture and joinery. For
Congo, the most important timber purchasers have been France, the Federal
Republic of Germany, Portugal, Italy, Spain, USSR, Netherlands and Romania.
In 1980, EEC hardwood imports totalled approximately 18 million m3 (in
roundwood equivalent) of which about 60 per3ent was tropical and was composed
of 6.9 million m3 of logs, 0.6 million m3 of veneer and 5.1 million m3 of
sawnwood.  At full production, the project's output would represent barely
1 percent of each of these items.
40.      As for the local sawnwood market, Clongo currently consumes about
30,000 m3 annually. Congo's GDP is projected to grow during 1980-85 at about
i1 percent each year.  Assuming a typical income elasticity of demand of 1.0,
one year's growth would be sufficient to absorb all the anticipated local
sales of the project.
41.      SCBO would establish its own marketing organization which would
assume its full responsibilities gradually wfith experience. In the meantime,
Silos would undertake export marketing for all three products on SCBO's behalf
for an initial period of 3 years. Renewal of the marketing agreement would
depend upon SCBO's own marketing capacity a-; that time. For the marketing of
logs, Silos would purchase 75 percent of SCBO's output at FOB less 4 percent,
and have the right of first refusal on the r'emaining amount. Silos would also
purchase sawnwood and veneer at 4 percent below the FOB price. For sawnwood,
the FOB price would be set in relation to reputable published pricing
information.  In the absence of a broad market for veneer, prices would be
calculated based on historic Congolese prices, adjusted for quality, and
indexed by changes in log prices of the relevant species. To help ensure
successful marketing of the project's output as well as an equitable
*         distribution of benefits, SCBO has agreed to (a) submit all marketing
agreements to the Bank for approval prior to their signing (Section 5.01(9) of
the draft Loan Agreement); (b) agree with the Bank on terms of reference and
means of implementation of the proposed SCBO marketing organization prior to
June 1984 (Section 3.04 of the draft Project; Agreement); and (c) consult with
the Bank periodically, as the respective marketing agreements come up for
renewal (Section 2.08 of the draft Project kgreement).
42.      Tribal People and Forestry Sector Management.  Among the total
population of 45,000 in the Sangha region live some 4,000 pygmies. Although
the area is sparsely populated (0.5 persons per km2, excluding Ouesso), the
two existing timber concession operations have some 1,000 to 1,400 pygmies or
25-35 percent of the Sangha's pygmy population already living at the two



12
concession townsites. However, once at the sites, pygmies are unable to
progress beyond the lowest paid jobs because they (a) lack even rudimentary
skills in literacy and numeracy; (b) must supplement their wage income with
more traditional activities and are thus often absent from their wage-paying
employment; (c) lack access to formal and legal processes needed for
acceptance into the regular workforce; and (d) are regarded as inferiors by
other ethnic groups who will not accept them as supervisors. Thus, although
pygmies have resettled at the other northern forestry operations, there are
none in company housing and no pygmy children in the schools. Pygmies in
these settlements suffer from malnutrition, poor sanitation, and a loss among
the children of the forest skills of their parents.
43.      SCBO has taken a positive interest in hiring pygmies. To expand
SCBO's initiatives and to further investigate how to improve the lot of
pygmies in general in the Ouesso region, the project includes 40 months of
consulting services to study the economic and social condition of the pygmies
and to prepare an action plan. Detailed terms of reference to this effect
would be agreed with the Government. The study and action plan would be
prepared by an internationally reputed organization for the social sciences
which would collaborate with local social scientists in this work.
44.      The project would also include technical assistance aimed at
improving the Ministry of Water and Forestry's capacity to efficiently plan
the development of the forestry sector and to monitor existing ventures - from
control of forest exploitation to a knowledge of prevailing markets and
developing marketing skills.
Environmental Consideration
45.      A selection-felling system would be used and an average of only 8-10
m3/ha of wood will be extracted for processing. Such extraction would be
consistent with existing legislation and would impose no particular stress on
the environment. The sawmilling and veneer operations are relatively
pollution free.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
46.      The total cost of the project, including working capital, capitalized
interest during construction and the Bank's capitalized front-end fee, is
estimated at US$42.6 million equivalent, of which US$29.5 million (69 percent)
is direct foreign exchange. Taxes and duties represent US$0.7 million of
local costs, which total US$13.0 million. The average cost estimate for
consulting services is based upon 160 months of services at $13,000 per month
including fees, subsistence and international travel. The base project cost
estimate has been prepared in April 1983 prices. Physical contingencies have
been estimated at 15 percent of the base cost estimate for civil works, and 10
percent for other items. A provision for price escalation has been
incorporated assuming an international inflation rate of 8 percent for 1983,
7.5 percent for 1984, and 7.0 percent for 1985; and a domestic inflation rate
of 14 percent in 1983, 12 percent in 1984 and 10 percent in 1985. Total
working capital is estimated at US$4.6 million in current prices. However,
because some items (namely forestry equipment and housing) have already been
procured, physical and price contingencies represent only 8 percent and 12
percent of total project costs, respectively.



13
47.      The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government, which would
retain US$1.5 million to finance the foreign exchange cost of the technical
assistance for forestry sector management. The Government would receive these
funds at the standard variable interest rate for Bank loans for 15 years
including four years of grace. US$10.5 million would be onlent to SCB0 under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement), the execution of which would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan. That portion of the loan passed on to SCBO would
be on the same repayment terms at 1.1 times the variable interest rate to the
Government. SCBO would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Bank's front-end fee of 0.25 percent of the loan amount would be financed
from the proceeds.
48.      The Bank funds onlent to SCBO would represent 26 percent of total
costs directly related to SCBO and cover 39 percent of its direct foreign
exchange requirement. Remaining foreign exchange requirements would be
provided through parallel co-financing by the SEB (US$4.4 million equivalent),
suppliers' credits (US$7.8 million equivalent) and the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Congolaise (BNDC) ($3.2 million equivalent). The balance and
local costs including taxes would be covered by US$13.8 million equivalent of
equity, including US$7.4 million of subscribed capital (of which 50 percent
has already been paid in) and expected retained earnings of US$6.4 million
from 1983-86 sales of logs. Technical assistance for tribal groups totalling
$1.1 million would be financed by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.      The total cost of the turnkey package is estimated at US$16.6 million
equivalent, of which US$12.7 million is foreign exchange. This package is
being procured using limited international tendering and offers from three
groups have been received. Final selection would be subject to Bank
approval. Bank funds would, however, be used only to finance technical
assistance under this contract. They would also finance civil works, to be
bid internationally according to Bank procedures for international competitive
bidding, and executed as a nominated sub-contract to the turnkey itself.
Terms of reference, qualifications and contracts for technical assistance
consulting services would also be subject to Bank approval.
50.      An allocation of items to be financed by the co-financiers has been
made.  Bank funds would be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of the foreign
cost of technical assistance to SCBO and thE Government; (b) 90 percent of the
civil works and mill housing; (c) the Bank's front-end fee and some interest
during construction; and (d) the refinancing of the PPF.
Financial Evaluation
51.      The project's estimated financial rate of return, calculated in
constant 1982 prices, is about 21 percent before taxes and 18 percent after
taxes. The after-tax return to the equity partners would be about 22
percent. Projections have been largely based upon analyses in the project's
feasibility study and the experience of the two already well-established
concession operations in northern Congo. The projections indicate that SCBO's
financial situation would be satisfactory during the first critical years of



14
operation. Assurances have been obtained that SCBO's debt to equity ratio
would not exceed 67:33 and that the current ratio would be at least 1.3:1.0
(Sections 4.04 and 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). As about 16 percent
of total project costs are to be financed from retained earnings, no
significant cash accumulation is expected prior to 1986, the year after
production of sawnwood and veneer is scheduled to begin. SCBO and its
shareholders are fully aware of this and have therefore agreed to provide
additional financing on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank if cash
generation from operations would be inadequate to meet these ratios or cost
overruns occur (Section 3.02 ii(A)(2) and (B) of the draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.07 of the draft Project Agreement and Section 2.01 (a)(ii) of the
draft Commercial Shareholders Agreement). SCBO has also agreed to refrain from
incurring additional debt if as a result its projected debt service coverage
would fall below 1.5 (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement). From
1987, the project should be able to pay an annual dividend equivalent to about
20 percent of share capital and still maintain a current ratio of at least
1.5. SCBO has agreed not to declare any dividends prior to project
completion, defined as when the plant has operated at on average at least 80%
of normal output for at least 6 months, or thereafter if this would cause the
current ratio to fall below 1.3 (Section 3.02 ii (A)(i) of the draft Loan
agreement, Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement and Section 2.01 (a)(i)
of the draft Commercial Shareholders Agreement).
52.      The actual financial rate of return is likely to be influenced most
by the selling price of the products and, to a lesser extent, by freight
charges, production start-up time, and capacity utilization. Sales
projections assume a real price increase of 35 percent through 1983-1995.
Current prices are about 23 percent lower in real terms than those prevailing
in 1982, hence this is conservative. Veneer is a highly specialized commodity
sold on a limited scale. Price trends are thus not available, but indicators
demonstrate a fairly close relationship with base log prices. For the
purposes of the analysis of this project, the same total real price increase
over the project's life has been assumed for veneer as for logs and sawnwood.
A sensitivity analysis shows that, should all sales prices fall 10 percent or
veneer prices fall 50 percent, the after-tax financial return would still be
13 percent and 14 percent respectively, which is satisfactory. Should freight
rates be increased by 15 percent above those now anticipated over the
project's life, the after tax return would still be 17 percent. The
sensitivity analysis also shows that the project as designed could withstand
delays in start-up of about one year and a decrease of 20 percent against
expected plant utilization levels.
Auditing Requirements
53.      SCBO has agreed to have its accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and to submit within six months of the end of its
fisca-L year certified copies of its financial statements (Section 4.02(a) of
the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
54.      With the exception of 3,000 m3 annually of sawnwood, all the
project's output would be exported. As a result, the estimated economic rate
of return of 20 percent is close to the pre-tax financial rate of 21%. A



15
sensitivity analysis indicates that even under a range of possible adverse
assumptions, the rate of return is unlikely to fall below 13 percent.
550      There are, in addition, a number of important project benefits which
cannot be quantified. Most importantly, the project would contribute
significantly to the development of northern Congo. Direct employment would
be provided for 540 people, mostly in the Ouesso region, and indirect
employment (primarily in transportation) for an estimated additional 300
people. The investment per direct job created would be US$73,300
4           equivalent.  For total employment, the investment per job would be
US$47,100. Although certain skilled perscns would have to be brought to
Ouesso from Brazzaville, Pointe Noire and neighboring countries, more than one
half of the work-force would be recruited locally. Local recruitment would
include forest dwelling people, the pygmies, some of whom are already working
for SCBO in preparatory work for forestry operations.
56.      At the national level the project would, over its 17-year life, lead
to direct foreign exchange earnings (net cf foreign debt service and
production costs) of about US$319 million in 1982 dollars. In addition, the
Government would receive total taxes over the life of the project with a
present value of US$4 million.
57.      Finally, the technical assistance provided to the Government would:
(i) enable the Ministry of Water and Forestry to more actively monitor the
various forestry-related joint venture companies which come under the
Ministry's domain, as well as to better supervise its public ventures; and
(ii) assist SCBO to recruit and train locel tribal people and provide valuable
base-line social impact information concerning the integration of such people
into the SCBO project and the northern economy in general. Neither the costs
nor the benefits associated with this component have been included in the
quantified financial or economic analyses.
58.      The risks associated with the project lie mainly in the fields of
management and transport. An experienced, internationally recruited core
management team is already in place, and to further compensate for the
partners' lack of previous experience: (i) a qualified engineering firm would
assist SCBO in the selection of a turnkey contractor as well as the
t           supervision of construction and start-up of the plants; (ii) the plant would
be procured on a turnkey basis including c.etailed design and engineering, and
technical assistance to assist in management of the first two years of
operations. While river and rail transport has posed difficulties for
0           existing wood producers, two Bank-financecL projects aimed specifically at
relieving these bottlenecks are underway and both river and rail transport
services are expected to be substantially improved in 1984 before the proposed
project comes on-stream.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The drafts of the Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of the
Congo and the Bank, the Project Agreement between SCBO and the Bank, the
Commercial Shareholders Agreement between Agro-Finance S.A., Les Silos du Sud-
Ouest and the Bank, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Artic].es of Agreement are being circulated
to the Executive Directors separately.



16
60.      Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Shareholders Agreement and the cross-
effectiveness of the proposed loan from BNDC and the suppliers' credits.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Washington, D.C.                                           A. W. Clausen
May 11, 1983                                               President



ANNEX I
17                                                     Page 1 of 7 pages
Page 1
TABLE IA
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE§AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. K4.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             342. O                                    SMOST RECEN .         MIDDLE INCOHE             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      106.7                1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    260.0        370.0     900.0                 1053.2                    1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       120.2        162.0      194.9                  610.1                     713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   950.0         1208.0    1605.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.5           38.3       45.0                   28.3                      47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION EN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           3.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            10.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPLLATION IS REACHED                     2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          2.8          3.5        4.5                   54.7                      35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        8.9         11.4       14.6                  129.9                     420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLRE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           41.0         42.2       43.5                   46.0                      44.3
15-64 YRS.                           55.8         54.6       53.3                   51,1                      52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2          3.2        3.3                    2.8                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9          2.4        2.8                    2.8                       2.8
URBAN                                7.2          5.0        4.5                    5.2                       4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       40.2         41.3       42.3                   47.2                      41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       18.2         15.8       10.4                   15.7                      12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.6           2.8       2.9                    3.2                       2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-lOO)            94.0        100.0       78.0                   90.7                     100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     97.5         96.2       99.1/c                93.9                      108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            35.6         35.4       40.4/2                 54.8                      71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         15.3         14.2       13.8/c                17.0                       18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       38.8         33.0       26.7                   23.9                      15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.7           53.7       59.3                   51.0                      56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            171.3        151.3      129.3                  118.5                     104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        27.0       17.0/d                   ..                      59.1
URBAN                                 ,,         63.0       40.0/i                   ..                      83.1
RURAL                                 ..          6.0        0.O/d                   ..                      39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          6.0        9.0e
UREAN                                 ..          8.0       10.0/5
RURAL                                 ..          6.0        9.0..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           16101.7      11071.4    7468.4/d              14185.2                     4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1297.3/f      897.9      597.7/d               2213.2                    1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              255.9/f      229.7/E   205.3/d                1036.4                     641.7
UREAN                              203.37?      298.27/E   292.5/2i               430.8                     538.3
RURAL                              228.6/f      205.0/j   173.4/d               3678.6                    2403.3
ADMIlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         22.8/g       ..                     ..                      25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.5           ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..        55/h
RURAL                                  ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.7           ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                4.0/          .,       11.8/h
RURAL                                  ..



18
ANNEX I
Page 2 Gf 7 pages
Page 2
TBE3A
CONG 7X 'PLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCoME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLEZNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  78.0        130.0     156.0                   83.3                     88.7
MALE                 1O3,0        147.0      163.0                  96.1                     104.5
FPaALE                53.0        114.0      148.0                  80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4,0        20aO       69.0                   15.3                     39.7
MALE                   6.0         28.0       85.0                  19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 2.0         12.0      53.0                   11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  27.8            9.8       6.4                    4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             52.7         61.9      52.5                   38.6                     34,1
SECONDARY                           20.1        33.0       40.3                   23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.6         50.0        ..                   35.6                     43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUIIATION                         47-3         12.4      14.1/d                 31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POP'ULATION                         11.6        53.8       59.1                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1          1.5       2.1                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    1.1          0,7        .,                   19.1                     31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.9                    0.6                      1.7
L1ABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        366.1        436.5     547.0
FEhALE (PERCENT)                    36.1        35.4       36.8                   36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               52.0        42.0       34.0                   56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.0        21.0       26.0                  17.7                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TO`TAL                                38.5         36.1      34.1                   37.0                     26.0
MALE                                  50.2         47.5      44.5                   46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                                27.3         25.2      24.3                   27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.3        1.4                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMSATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ,,         ,,                 200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     190.0                  203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ,.                    .,                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
aon_e the indicators dependo on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estiniate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c 1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1972; /h 1974; /i Data for City of Pointe-Noire only, for 1958.
May, 1982



19
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7 pages
DrINPTifUS OF SOCtO  ageICbygo;
Ueeas:  oIahee~  ci-. is    dosce fet  sore  anriyjooged the  -ee  ateiairtd yelifble, ft  -bold d.c   .  oe   hitey-    o   eitr
safsl    orbl   ber-.   f tbe face of  -rndadise   defIioftinn   -tt  --ocpac aed by differnt-P,               n .  to  -oilnoina   b  dens.  The   acr.   oe
eee etl.t deetibe order, of-.gtsd. dcaeteds,  -d ofrc-nnecranmJor difference   ~ .. tace                                     --onciee
ofteebnroorytecp   o                      'lPgh   noe    Ol   polrnae'  Bor--  ef-r  'Middle Ioca-  tornh Ateins sod Middl  E., f             Iot  teho.en  bec--  of c ne
aooto-rlnea  at titee)   It   drefrece   rop data iln   ....a.   act 11   Popolse to  nighted net1 nhito  Aeo  ton  ach Airdicto-  end ctht  only ehen
bigh fehonasod sqI-AiI..   Pdi                                                                oto.l..... a1Tion  par ... .o..e ..o -, total. or,  ee:l',, tota     - Py-a onf nnl
fos       oitara  a are   c        1.nti     andnt  tad inindeaeo   1979 dots.ahe,ndtrt A int!.RP) dI11d b   hi   apeoooce                                 f Ihoepinci bed
for crops, p             -nre      re  end lainhen aerdana on to lIe  Fatl , 1979 date            i. haflHein.t.t             . dnytot1  eta tanalliehermr  permaneney eretfed
Iyo    onoephy,.c Eon . tnbtichc-oe  pro..idina, rtc  petlyocato-.
APPMCAPt  t            NAt P Oty - ret  omiaer-tea  - conen   Iare   pae.   -                       ditPr   r   o   oiid              oa    optl.tenr  i-tc,de heefeh
coasted Ay a          cooeconerhd cc WaId ten  Atla. j19i-S     Asaic.1*90.                           end edic-f catt -        tprannl  catdAtaypaort(Ant by
790. sa   jtdt.adil.at. seietot.oce .  laia    rojehc                                                                                                       ffee  tn-pent enani     n
ptepG,i cmuintnno  Pen BOAPTA - AstotnnaIBo  o   aenco    nry                     Ine                   t otrr-e,ent  opntIicart t   eo   ps/ae                                      Iopet..
sodtigire.ritotain,  nnaralaaca-dhyr-,ofarrdefbt.sea-                                       sttrctot-1h-cpttsl,too   orrsl. toPiiatsaoi.ed stsdaa--nily
netoinyf t  Ariotraceof coat aqtosleni pe  capit; f196,197tfP   . en  19ff               ce-er.   peoa.lfteedthopitala arei_Itded ontYineeet
das-                                                                                               Odi-.to. tat  o-Eitl. tad - fois  nt~r of sla.incoa  oo  di-hart..
free Ah-inste dioiard Ay oA   --~r of heda.
yAfUTtdftf iAND hiTAI. STATISTtICS
Tona P      Aylnion. thA-'foa  (nltn-ed.j - a. of icty  I; 1960, 1970. an  t9Sl                  AflSInla
Arba  Poniaioc(pecac  ofiontfll -1 L.ct. Acf  -b-o  otoa  poyctalon;                          AttIca.ndtdcaleef c.,         ato   of  oitrdoete, afolea- linan            srte
diffcrane  daftoit oso   ohnta             s sIttt oI-bait my of A.ea                               .an  their esio ceot    A Aos..da- or lodar- as      -eys no  Ac iantede  in
aegooets  19%0. l9O. end t*t dta.                                                          t,he.. Aoahcid foreaisie   P-rPonac
Porolanior Projentiote                                                                       aeraaatc...rof-19oonf.pa   roo -ioa , Ar            ist, antrec         -snasatc
I.,slninym   Ol     nnn  poptaiooproact-n  o:re dae   olM                                        h'o   eoe   a   ost   tlehn   n  crtoopedcneto
Projaclion  raaeir  fob-         tth    pontropito  tia   tenet. oais-                        Antonoplad  pania.
an.d f-rilll it1t-d. for yrjo-o arcr.                                                             1ct             - nctmr  lalia
-eeo-n  oooia-c                 io  or- Pooo lo  tAst  to, noBroiart rhnoato -1  tonoI. noon rod ran--roe   onl1, note an  fees
tha, rhblr,       arohiehedseraeiondt-thsasarcnraahrorltdocfltoentrepiI                                                                    syttaaepeeenaaIg f reepatlne
celianonatni   T Ia  s ittand only altar f-iiltYX ratsdecline- torI.ar    colseOtcO.o;nral.ooldnc ta    gd 6-tt
terenptactrot lene  of cottnrpoaifort.otnrot-ateonio                                               tot  Ao o-atd  enAitean   -angihs of pri-_r~dia .. tl io
tantdonta   sis  ttepoetdcaatn lc    ftepplncnsoynn pfp-l  arababe or aAoo  oha offtloin  cohot  ga
loiheyas Dlf.endilhersne. rdacttntof f-niitlyareto-n-plcn-                                                                         -dnaosho-oniaatnftst-  -npon_d  aeson;aa.. e
fra   sesl 2sey   1o-toto   i  neonhad - Tba Yarn eh-tsa -lonorY y  oa  o                             crlPe tnta.  ocni-a. o    -eohen  tra-initotofns Ifor popile
sire cttt A  -a-ohd.                                                                                oaoof 12 no 17 padre of4oge;nor..p..d... rgac                         ..or   anratty
ictal ott-  1960. 1970  andif    data,9n .aanthlcl.idani 1   n  ce Inonr-a  africAoperat ..                                                                      i         dpe-
oly; 1900.tIP  and A 1979 Iota.                                                               "Pin0 I -nohan ceic-          ,ys. end secod- Try - Iott   toenaco d to
Popiro   s  ucin   rrenl-cidenI-iras   . okitg-gae  (11-                                             or lt  sod socodory tene. dinidrd by o~-b-  of tastha   in nit
hi yea.-   edre 6rl   Aj              -Ioo   -nnor    pntise    fai-yrrcy-                         co:r......dlotrol
laln    9. tfl  an 9Bt  deno.                                                          idl   lroorn                         Ifrnnt -t.iroa.. teb   tt   edcini
year. poosirn  for.- 19I-0-At, 19W-Pc.- and 1900-80i.
Popolirlo  Growh cant                  ll. Ieeoj-ra- Anoo. goa   tenet of ....t rope-            co-innyan-Iodn5  l..                                                       .r
ppltoL19Iff 0, 1970.nd190, -dana.0P.                                                                                 .
Irdabot  Rt Ia  ch....ol  - A--no    Ii d  iatha per  nh heasnd dof sia-yr               Poi.nctesIa  toao   noalr -  Al  ye.o  ren- ncr  fo.rA                               t
p     Iolto;  90  1970. Ia "Iff  Oct-,                                                        rtdint-cptrt  elcprtfcnn    fpoeain   nttd-rt
nutty reta  ccat  flo-peer  --erg- toding tn 1900,1t9P0.  -e  1980.                               cotco-tt-erboliehad  lica...itot
PsmilyPlo     _n-hopoon.A,At..Ietleho.....dsl -...Iaooa_re~fatcporo                                  haceiaalehooadcple                          '    --catnra  farhoaocI       a
PAmLlo.la....      Ia_    (arno  oen=           a=ao-)  Pareo ft "fri'd                              Iooa irfaadlnyas.etergcaelnf T   laeao    inffac
str    f cbntd-b-aiot      ( 11-44 ytrt .  h.   ie..ntoni           d-ri..a.                 tas'ptlrolio               e   hoso    rosl            - thoashatamart-
ollnrnldno-eineeergg -op.                                                                        ce;co'dit gera  _tetct appet  define    cpriditra1
re dn-onmoe   p-ia 'fY no raioding  g-at1nPl name.  f   fatonidered
prodacirn  o  sit  ind  _dtiai.   Prdrir  ar .oc   ed nod faso and                         'ii ken.1clddoint tn  foa. inongdataioci  no. dmintg_ iaa
ince    f ecasrI ahlA  are eible and totii          i....et  It.. a  cf~fee and
teaat  eontaded)   daggreasf  prodocI- of  -eh n.oriry  Is boce  onBO fa loRCEf
notions  Ireaf  prdne  prIint siahc; 1961-t5, 1970. and 0990 dana-                              fodlaL_bor rotor tiorania..    - cocaca lysio    esn,incding
Peacpn   oteo   aois  preto   eotats  -oepiad  trt                                                   erYd  fooiclen -    tocyd   otar -lodingbierne.  tdna   t
tray0 r.giVialan  of nan foci         l:.cpt a  oalal  inratr   pct pleanotaingpillrioo.olaee                                               tirifi-  to nations  -r riis ate
par ysp    -nsilahi  .cpplife  r-tne  doencoaoior   err   ente   optha   90  1900 an  f90daa
ar     'he.o  ....i. In  ic. ...   fap.. erld  ais   ad, sads,                             Ir...anenI-raaalbo   ans ..                       cata   f  oa  la.borfr.
foolta  ot  in fodpoenit- d Ptaea  i  ietthoic                     aqinara  oet    ecn   -Lbrfrc   tt rIfn._trair,   hooing nod
ernietareecnienetAprI  hosd onp,,         Igho  caI o    ora   ol                              iahiop  asprata    f octal Ibra  force  1900. 1970 en  1f80 dens.
tiny sod helthnoreig   _toLt_ea             l  -rp-ttoa  body Nhiit -.~ sa..-Yo(anet                                   b-tir  oc   narng    oero  on   sssce
.-iea  dilistlroion  of poplio  an   l ing  10 Percen  forctaa.n.lnnttp    ae   n   o  en...rnPBp of tota IAn   force
ho.tehold 1e-1;19-A.90an  1f1 Oats                                                                 0900  19100n  1900 Oar.
Pa np It com          _     Y       .,l o fpy     prot,!, (iaeyndy  -Prtncoroof Pencpt         Patton -r-torh'io  ise   p--en I - ico sl, and female     ae op            rl a
ne   opy of food Pen day.   itsyl    f.fod i, defnda               -n.R-nttnysaa naaAa   os., male, and freola  labor forte.
foiaetaOc at  ootrec   tthiahd   p   tr  ponie  annOlnt                                 anenon, o1f ias.1  colt and fa-ieppoalc    f alaeresyaninly;
ollonanne orttieaoofioitptontccrndaoad 20rSna fo iea1                                 190. I970.a-dl1980tdAra           f TheentbtdnIl'  p.ni            .i...nrt.
poise proiti, nf nhioh 10 gnat   hold be animal proei -,  Th,  stod-                               rat tannin   ag-cr    -tronro  o  ebe pooai.   so   ogn                 rend A
f                                 Ao~~~~~~~~~~~~rtd rood nonnep;196 iA-65, 1970 sod 1977 dens                                        tohetae1 laborfre
Pannsii  -rtanotio tros animal and Pois-Proneia  -opply of food A-
rated fran onierle  ,d poIesIag-a   Pan- dy, 1961-6n. 1970 and 1977 data.                     INClOME DISTRffIBTION
Chld .Saea i-i_trr  lane  ro ihocnd   -  rIa  d-she Pen th.t.od in                                P---ora  of Pr bore ico-  (both in  -oh rod kctd) -   -i-danc  by eriMta
-sagro.Pl    pata  tohlirmo  Inirsnafop hir.adaatillcn                                             5Peno.ioresi'tlprnn.por                        00 0c00tn   ..Idp--ac   40 p-rnai
trite dons d-ni-d trot lifa  tiblet, 19600. 1970 and 1980 dent-                                    of h..c.inid,.
fiEALTH                                                                                            PoVRtnt TANGlT  .OUPi
lfe i..... ocy atnit  Ieas  - OA-raga noslr of yers of life   eann.h   olsn    aiae    n   nyapafnr   rmrso    Yoat  Ien-ic.
tbirth; 190T97   a   10   an.ad ehri he f---prndrihcn ida..thlenacti-n
Intet trtatno  ace(rettnrsdt  -.-Ito  death. at lafant, aider on  feat                      Esticeem-,       otnoen    oe   ani(a   e i to -                   amen end tota   -
.ceialat  asteW r actr-aPi of aeolanorl    coa,-1s.adna   - ftc-                                 =otninaoll  adaqaede   1seseta   a-od-eoncasi 
esereh ashtho  fro   pr-rctd torebaes. springs, and sttt    elfa                                 atrinr    aea   noetnti   n-hr    feeaeprrpa
Pe.etea   ofterr-en-epyitae    i   tahtea  ao npros  Incoc  of the  -raty.  mAma 1e-e  ia dene.                                                                     rm   h   aa
fosara   trP-o I.r taard  otcrthen 200 ctr   rm    bes   s  be                             leritib adj_rnet for high-.. los  of fining  to sabererse
tanIderda  hein  sithftrecasi  acs f abet bens-n aelcra                                        ln   de Po..tlIlior bel1. AbsaOt-  P-neey Ianoc  t.e-e  qetrosat -tba
reeo_sle           _ soeeArid tagy that rh   oceea             fe at the -eseaId                   and tal.-I  Painte  at prolatie  laths. a ad  -a>.1             ee5bsl)
Anet=    eny i   ase ed.   istpr.l its        I per  ofthday,  In f-abiaR  the
finally's cater tends.,"
sa fsaefe   b   tta-e,    cycea  -r tbe ea f pit petnls andaimi-
FePsioLeetsr Pbyfo  o-PapItatieruntidd by src    f pr-mIing  pyhpc-                                                                        grn tcdSan    gat  DiUisia
nets qalitfia  free a-dira Itela  tt rlay ice_                                                                                     PR,stel  delpyi  an   yrjat            Ppamrce-
Pcencaia  ac  Macasslatet -Papeat-ie  dinhici by t.-        ofPrti-                                                                                 198f
aLc.a   eae  aisg  toss   tiseaeesa    ttn   oces  c



20
Population:   1.6 million  (mid  1981)                                                                PEOPLE'S REPJBLIC OF THE CONGO                                          ANNEX  I
GNP  per  capita:  US$900  (Bank  Atlas  estimate                                                      ECONOMIC INDICATORS (1)  /a                                            Page  4  of  7 pages
for  1980)                                                         EOMCIDCTR    1                   aPg
Est.      Est.
1975       1976       1977       1979       1979       1980       1981        1982
National Accounts
(In current CFAF Billions)
GDP at market Prices                     164,4      180.3      188.0      198.3      255.0      369.5      508.5       596.9
Gross Domestic Investment                 64.3       55,9       50.0       54.3       65.0       137.0      165.0      180.0
Gross National Savinas                    119       -1.0        3.7        7.6       41.5      102.0       137.6      154.7
Ieports of Goods and NFl /b              104.9      120.0      122.7      120.2      124.0      216.6      286.5      379.8
Exports of Goods and NFS lb               59,0       72.8       85.7       86.2      120.3      215.8      314.3       403.5
Gross Domestic Investment as 7
of GDP                              39.1       31.0       26.6        27.4       25.5       37.1       32.5       30.2
Gross National Savins as Z
of GNP                               7.5       -0.6        2.1         4.1       17,7       30.4
Imeorts of Goods and NFS as I
of GDP  /b                          63.8       66.6       65.3       60,6        48.6       58.6       56.3       63.6
Exports of Goods and NFS as x
of GDP  lb                          35.9       40,4       45.6        43.5       47.2       58.4       61.8       67.6
Annual Rates of Growth in Z
GDP at market Prices (nominal)            20.0        9.7        4.3        5.5       28,6       44.9       37,1        17.4
SDP at market Prices (real)                1.0       -0.5       -3.5       -2.0        9.5       24.8       20.1         6.4
Gross Value Added bs Sector
(In current CFAF Billion)
Aariculture Livestock Fishers             21.0       21.4        0.0       27.8         10 30.6             40.0        45.0
Forests                                    2.8        2.9        0.0        4.0        0.0        5.5         5.9        5.5
Oil and other ainina                      36.9       43,9        0.0       31.9        0.0      129.9      221.7      252.2
Industra                                  11.2       16.9        0.0       22.6        0.0       26.5       29.5       32.8
Construction and Public Works              5.2        7.0        0.0        6.0        0.0       17,5       28.0        43.0
Transport and telecom.                    15.8       16.3        0.0       17.7        0.0       32.6       39.5        47.7
Services and Commerce                     29.4       25.9        0.0       41.3        0,0       57.7       68.6       81.4
Public Administration etc. Ic             30.8       28.2        0.0       36.6        0.0       45.2       50.3       58.0
As 7 of total Gross Value Added
Agriculture livestock I fishers           13.7       13.2        0.0       14.8        0.0       10.5        8.3         7.3
Forestry                                   1.8        1.8        0.0        2.1        0.0        1.6         1.2        0.9
Oil and other  ining                      24.1       27.0        0.0       17.0        0.0       36.9       45,9       40.9
Industry                                   7.3       10.4        0.0       12.0        0.0        7.5        6.1        5.3
Construction and Public Works              3.4        4.3        0.0        3.2        0.0        5.0        5.8        7.0
Transport and telecom.                    10.3       10.0        0.0        9.4        0.0        9.3        8.2         7.7
Services and Commerce                     19.3       15.9        0.0       22.0        0,0       16.4       14.2        13.2
Public Administration etc. /c             20.1       17.4        900       19.5        0.0       12.9        10.4        9.4
SOIRCEICentre National de la Statistiaue et des Etudes Economioues, Ministry of Plan
and Bank Staff estimates for sears for ahich no official data are available.
In order to Preserve consistency, some adJustments have been sade by Staff,
la Fiscal Year is Januara I - December 31.
/b There are discrepancies between National Accounts data and those
reported in the Balance of Payments on international trade and factor
services Paysents and receipts. It is considered that the balance of
Pasments data are more consistent and reliable and the figures used here
are consesuentl1 those taken from the balance of Pasments information,
/c This catecory includes most importantly the value added conventionally
calculated for Public administration, but it also includes other non
market activities.
W.A. CP 11 S
04/24/83



21
Population; 1.6  million  (mid  1981)                                              PEOL'S REPUiLIC OF THE £098                                               ANNEX  I
GNP  per  capita:  US$900  (Bank  Atlas  estimate                                                                                                            Page  S of  7 pages
for  1980)                                        ECONOMIC IIIDICATORS  t2)
Eat.        Est.
1975       197)       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (IN CFAF BILLIONS)
(CASH BASIS)
Current receipts                                  44.3        47.8       51.9       56.3       51.7      117.3      209.7      241.4
of which Oil taxes and rosalties             11.7       14.1       14.1       13.1       22.7        58.8      126.1      134.9
(as Percent of total)              26.4       29.6       27.2       23.2        43.9       50.1       60.2       55.9
4                                                   Current expenditures                               39.2        43.1       50.8       5B.0       54.8       74.4       97.7      134.5
of which salaries I wages                    20.1       23.0       25.1       29.7        31.7       36.3       40.8       53.8
interest Payments                   1.3        1,7        2.0        5.1         3.4        8.2       12.0       20.3
Current surplus (including adjustments)             5.0        4.7        1.1       -1.7       -3.1       43.0      111.9       106.9
Investment expenditures                           18.2         8.5        2.5        5.0        4.5       27.0       52.0       82.0
Debt amortization                                  2.5         2.3        2.0        4.5        4.5       10.0       16.2       29,0
Total capital expenditures                        20.7        11.3        4.5        9.15       9.0       37.0       68.2       111.0
Financing total                                    15.7        6.5        3.3       11.3       12.1       -6.0      -43.7         4.1
(As Percent of 0DP at market Prices)
Current receipts/GDP                          26.9       26.5       27.6        28.4       20.3       31.8       41.2       40.4
Total investment expenditures/GDP             11.1        4.7        1.3        2.5         1.8        7.3       10.2       13.7
Total debt service PaYeents/GDP                2.3        2.;        2.1         4.9        3.1        4.9        5.6        8.3
Financing total/GDP                            9.5        3.n        1.8         5.7        4.7       -1.6       -8.6        0.7
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
(IN CFAF BILLIONS -- END PERIOD)                                                                                            Aug. 82
Monea and wuasi-money                             29.1       33.)2       34.5       36.9       44.9       61.4       92.1      103.3
Credti to the Government (net)                    10.1        11.;       16.8       20.0       20.7       21,6        4.4        9.1
Credit to the Economy  /a                         29.3       38.1        38.9       39.4       45.6       56.0       94.2      115.5
(Percentages or index numbers)
Mones 0 auasi-mones /GDP                           17.7       18.E       18.4       18.6       17.6       16,6       18.1       17.3
Brazzaville consumer Price index  /b             100.0      107.2       122.7      135.1      146.1      156.7      183.3      205.0
(1975 = 100)
(Annual changes in Percent)
Credit to the Government (net)                   119,8        16.1       42.4       19,1        3.1        4.5      -79.5      105.5
Credit to the Econoes  /a                         20.1       29.8         2.4        1.3       15.6       22.8       68.2       22.6
Mones and auasi-soney                             13.6        16.6        1.8        6.9       21.7       36.7       50.0       12.1
Brazzaville consumer Price index  /b              17.4         7.2       14,5       10.1        8.1        7.3       17.0       11.8
SOURCE:Data Provided by various asencies of the Government of the Conon,
Adjustments and estimates are made by Bank Staff in order to miake the
Presentation more comPlete than what is readils available, Also,
reclassitication is used to make the data consistent with
standard definition of variables.
/a Including Public enterprises.
/b This consumer Price index is first established in 1964 and) does not
adesuately reflect the prices increases for average fail Les.
6.A. CP II B
04/24/83



Population: 1.6 million (mid 1981)                                                                22
GN'P  per  capita:  US$900  (Bank  Atlas  estimate                                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO                                               ANNEX  I
for  1980)                                               ECONOMIC INDICATORS   (3)                                                Page  6  of  7 pages
Estimates
1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981       1982
Balarc2 of Pasvents (Billions of CFAF)
Ex:ports of soods and rion-factor services            59,0       72.0        85.7       86.2       120.3      215.8       314.3      403.5'
of which Crude ol                               25.6       34.9        39.3        48.1       74.9       153.7      2s5.5      336.2
Imports of asods and non-factor services            104.9       120.0       122.7      120.2       124,0      216,6       286.5      379,8
of which Oil sector                             36.9        40.4       41.9        36.9       38.0        86.1      230.4       175.3
(Resource dap:defic.t with -)                       -45.9       -47.2      -37.0       -34.0       -3.7        -0.9       27.8        23.7
Net ir,vestment income and interest                   -6.8       -9.3        -8.9      -12.9       -20.4      -34.7       -55.5      -70,5
Net other factor services receipts                     0.2       -0.4        -0,4        0,2         0.7         0.5        0.0         0.0
Net unreauited private transfers                      -5.4       -5.4        -5.7       -0.9        -6.7      -13.6       -100      -14,5
(lalance ori current account)                       -57.7       -62.3      -52.0       -47.6      -30.2       -48,6      -37.7       -66,0
Net unresuited Public transfers                        7.4        9.5         5.4       10.5         9.0       13.4        12.5        15.0
Net direct foreisn investrernt and
M.1 L. loans to Private sector                     20.9        22.3       29.5         7.0         2.6       16.7        23.1       44.0
Public sector M. t L. loans (net'                      S.7       13.2         8.1       32.7        13.3       35.6        10.7       92.8
:Oisburserent                                   12.5       15.0        12.0       37.2        20.4       46,8        55.0      151,7
boeortizatiox                                    3.8        1.0         3.9        4,5         7.0       11.2        27.7       58.9
Iotal net trade credit                                 7,3        2.7        -0.7        0.4         5,6      -15.1        28.8       -9.0
Other short-term capital (net)                         0.2       -2.5        -3.3       -3.4        -0.8        0.5        25.7        0.0
Other capital not elsewhere included                  -0O0        0.0        -0,2       -0.1        -0.1       -0.2        -0.0       -0.3
Monetary sector capital   /a                           2.8        0.7         2.2       0Q8         -0.4        0.1         1.4         3.1
Errors and omissions   /c                              4,0       14.2         6.0       -1.13        4.4        8.9        -7.4
Overall balance                                       -6.4       -2.2        -5.0       -1.0         3.3       11.2        18.0
Total financina   lb                                   6.4        2.2         5.0         1.0       -3.3      -11.2       -18.0
Gross official foreign reserves                        3.2        3.0         3.4        2.4         9,7       20.9        36.8       12.9
(end-Year)
Net foreisn assets (end-Yeur)                         -O.9       -2.6        -7.1       -7.7        -3.0         8.8       23.6         9.2
U.S0  1.O0= CFAF (PercDd 3oerase)                   214.3       239.0       245.7      225.6       212.7      211.3       271.7      328.6
SDR 1.00= CFAF (Period everase)                   260.1       275.9      286,8       282.3      274.8       274.9      319.8       362.8
SOURCE:Sats Provided bh  various asencies of the Governeent of the Conao,  Adjustment,
reclassification and estimates are wede bs Bank Staff,
/a Two depost banks (UCB and 0CC) and Post Offics.
/b  Including changes in arrears, and changes ir reserves and related items.
,c The effects of exchanse rate fluctuations on asset values are not fully
reflected in the variables used here nor in this adjustment item.
0.4.  CP  0I
04 /24/03



Population:  1.6  million  (mid  1981)                                                    23
G.0P per  capita:  US$900  (Bank Atlas  estimate                                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CON60                                                 ANNEX  I
for  1980)                                          ECONOMIC INIDICATORS (4)                                                   Page  7 of  7 pages
(In millions of U.S.  unless otherwise specified)
Estimates
1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
EXTERNAL DEBT /a
Gross disbursements; Total                      120.6       81 9       90.5      227.5      138.3      198.0      307.0       461.6
of which IBRD I IDA                             4,0       10,2         3.3      20,1       11.2         2.9       18.5       10.4
Private creditors                    48.8       23.0       11.7      101.8       51.5      151.5      241.7       343,8
(                                                             Suppliers                          48.2       19,7        5.4        19.9       25.8        9.2       47.0      135.6
Financial sarket                    0.6        3.3        6.3       81.9       25.8      142.3      194.8      208,2
Commitsents [Total                               95.0      236,6       84.3      157.2        99.6     319.0      544.6       421.4
of which IBRD and IDA                           0.0       38.0        8.5        0.0        0.0       35,0
Private creditors                    34.3       50,1       26.0       91.1        37.4     213.5      426.2      343.8
Suppliers                          30.4       27.1        3.6       32.6        2.4       24.0      187.2        6.5
Financial market                    3.9       23.0       22.4       58.5       35.0      189.5      239.0      337.3
Debt outstanding and disbursed; Total           373.5      421.0      510.5      778.3      862.5      941.5   1u106.1   1,288.5
of which Bank and IDA                          34.8       43.0       44.2       62.0       62.7       61.3       78.8       87,7
Debt service; Total                              36.4       25,7       38.3       30.9      111.2        99.0     107.6      270.9
(as % of exports)                              13.2        0.4       11.0        8.1       19.7        9.7        9.2       22.6
of which IBR. and IDA                           3.9        3.8        4.6        5.4       14.1         .13        4.5        5.0
(as X of Total)                              10.6       14.9       12.1       17.6       12.6        8.4        4.2        1.8
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)            5.2        5.8        5.1        7.1        4,6       10.2        11.1       10.8
Official creditors                              3.6        5,2        3.5        3.5        3,2        4.1
Private creditors                               7,9        7.8        8.8       10.0       1O.8       13.9
Averaae maturity of new loans (wears)            10.1       17.0         9.9       8.8       10.6       15.7          7.4       8.0
Official creditors                             10.6       19.6       11.2       11.2       11.5       22.8
Private creditors                               9.4        7,2        6.9        6,9        6.7        7,7
Exchange rates
USS 1.00= CFAF (Period av.)                 214.320   238.982   245.671   225.638   212.723   211.302   271.729   328.600
US) 1,00= CFAF (End Period)                 224.280   248.490   235.250   209.000   201.000   225.800   266.890   336. 25
SOURCE:World Bank Debtor Reporting Systea and Balance of Poaments data Provided by the
Government with adjusteents by Bank Staff,
la Stock variables are measured as End-of-Period figures. For conversion ot
floW variables such as disbursements and debt service P?riod average
exchange rates are used to obtain U.S. S figures,
W.A.  CP II B
04/24/83



24                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of March 31, 1983)
Ln. No. 1349-COB   Second Education Project: US$8 million Loan of May 7,
1977; Effective Date: November 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project provides for strengthening of educational planning and              3
creation of a primary teacher college, and education publications unit, a
technical teacher training department and a forestry school. Project
implementation is about two years behing schedule due to delays in contract
awards for civil works and equipment procurement. However, construction of
the five project institutions are expected to be completed by the end of
1983. The fellowship program has been satisfactorily implemented. The
Government has negotiated a contract for technical assistance with UNESCO.
Cr. No. 971-COB    Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project;  US$5.0
million Credit of April 11, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project provides for technical assistance to the Ministry of
Mines and Energy and to the national company HydroCongo; a management
(diagnostic) study of HydroCongo in a first phase followed by the
implementation of the study's recommendations; an aeromagnetic survey of the
Central Basin (Cuvette), a feasibility study of a steamflooding pilot project
in the offshore Emeraude field; training and other studies. The main
components have been completed with some minor changes while technical
assistance including for legal advice, petroleum exploration and auditing is
continuing.
Cr. No. 1047-COB   Second Railway Project; US$30.0 million Credit of June 19,
1980; Effective Date: April 24, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project provides for completion of civil works on the realignment
of the CFCO railway, purchase of machinery for maintenance of earthworks and
consulting services for supervision and contract management. With the
exception of the long tunnel, works have progressed satisfactorily and are
virtually complete. Major difficulties have been experienced in the
excavation of the long tunnel, due to the difficult terrain and water inflows
on both construction sites. Recent progress has been hampered by severe
ground swelling on the western side requiring extensive reinforcing, and water
inflows on the eastern side requiring a lengthy grouting campaign. These
problems appear to have been overcome and work is now advancing normally. 390
meters remain to be excavated and daylighting is expected to take place in
October 1983, with completion of all tunnel works by September 1984. This
represents a delay of several months over previous forecasts, resulting in
additional costs. These increased costs, coupled with a shortfall in
contributions from one of the co-financiers and government measures such as
the abolition of preferential fuel tariffs for the contract have resulted in a
financing shortfall of some $45 million for which the Government is seeking
additional contributions from other co-financiers. A co-financiers conference
is being held in April 1983 to this end and to re-apportion shares of project
financing according to resulting estimates of funds available from each co-
donor. The results of this conference and the consequent revised financial



25
ANNEX II
Page 2of 2
situation of the project will be reviewed during a forthcoming field
mission. Operational performance of ATC has suffered a setback due to
frequent derailments, poor labour relations, delays in Government approval of
tariff increases and in payment of &overnment outstandings, and a tendency by
ATC to overinvest. These factors have materially affected ATC's ability to
comply with all the financiaL covenants of the Project Agreement. Urgent
representations have been made to the Prime Minister requesting measures to
put these issues right.
Cr. No. 1179-COB   River Transport Project: US$17.0 million; Credit of
March 10, 1982; Effective Date: August 8, 1982; Closing Date:
September 10, 1985.
The project provides for purchase by the Agence Transcongolaise des
Communications (ATC) of new river transport equipment, including timber
barges, line pushers, tugboat, passenger vessel and miscellaneous floating
craft, rehabilitation and upgrading of river port facilities at Brazzaville,
Mossaka and Ouesso, expansion of training facilities for river transport
personnel, construction of river-training works, purchase of data processing
equipment and software, and training and technical assistance. In addition,
funds are provided for technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport in
setting up a planning unit as well as to the Office Congolais du Bois (OCB),
the Government timber marketing Board. The project was declared effective on
8/8/82 and procurement of equipment and civil works as well as technical
assistance services are substantially completed in accordance with Association
guidelines. ATC's river transport services are experiencing improved
performance and other project covenants are being met. Substantial progress
has been made in attracting new investors ia the forestry sector, due to the
improvements in ATC's river transport servi3es and to the new equipment for
timber transport from the northern forests.
Ln. No. 2227-COB   Third Highway Project: US$12.7 million Loan of December 21,
1982; Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project provides for a 3.5 year time slice of a rehabilitation
and maintenance program for unpaved roads in two pilot regions, including the
provision of (a) equipment for highway maintenance , workshops and the testing
of soils and materials; and (b) technical assistance for training of road
maintenance personnel and technical assistance for the management of
workshops, for highway planning and for the development of a local
construction industry.  The project is not yet effective due to administrative
delays in the Government's services. However, the technical assistance for
road maintenance personnel and for the management of workshops is in the field
and bidding documents for highway maintenance and workshop equipment have been
finalized.



26                     Annex III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
WOOD-PROCESSING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:              3 years
(b)   Project prepared by:                            Government,
consultants and
SCBO
(c)   Date of the first Bank mission to              April, 1979
consider the project:
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:         April 1982
(e)   Negotiations completed:                        May 4, 1983
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                  September 1983
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurance that it would monitor river and
rail transport capacity in relation to timber traffic demand and ensure that
such capacity is expanded as required to meet demand (para. 38).
The Government, Agro-finance S.A. and Les Silos du Sud-Ouest have
provided assurances that they would:
(a)   not require SCBO to pay any dividends or make any other
distribution of its share capital nor pay any interest on, or
principal of any subordinated debt prior to completion of the
project or thereafter if it would cause the current ratio to fall
below 1.3 (para. 51); and
(b)   provide in proportion to their holdings of SCBO shares such
additional funds as may be required to complete the project and
comply with financial standards in the Project Agreement (para.
51).
The SOBO has provided assurances that it would:
(a)     subject to the Bank's approval, conclude marketing
agreements and extend or enter into new such agreements
three months prior to their termination (para. 41);
(b)     submit to the Bank for comment by June 30, 1984 a proposal
for the establishment of SCBO's marketing organization



27                      Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(c)     have its accounts and firancial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 53);
(d)     not incur any debt unless SCBO's projected internal cash
generation would be at le!ast 1.5 times projected total debt
service (para. 51);
(e)     maintain a debt to equity ratio of no more than 67:33 and a
current ratio of not lesE than 1.3:1 (para. 51);
(f)     not declare any dividends or other distribution of share
capital prior to completion of the project or thereafter
unless SCBO's current asEets would equal or exceed 1.3
times current liabilities after the distribution (para. 51)
and;
Special conditions for loan effectiveness would be the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SCBO and the
Shareholders' Agreement, and the cross- effectiveness of the proposed loan
from BNDC and suppliers' credits (paras 47 and 48).






_                    I                  l iD                 '9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  i0',j                   So  M000 .IMPS
0*'                         \                            ees>co.fe>ut.5\nCENTRA. AFRICAN  RP_BL C
C'                                                                                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/A F R I C A;| n  - f =
\ / = \ \j~~~~~;7:                       /-        '      -~ '  >\r
N ~  ~ ~ ~ c.K RCOf-'// ---, 2
fA ME N R0 0                                                   -
-21 I                                      oSnb>b-^                                  W      0iSO1                               N!F
X X   b; ~~~~~rS                                              (\2
b                                              NAPFO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- <   >  g  <  g ronE lle~OOO'M      Sore                                             2 o o gm7   7_  XEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
07 ,1 9 i Abn3g i <H > / / A)t, S~' ,.< L2tOUESO WOOD-PROCESSING PROJECT 1
9\~~ ~~~~~                                                                                                               / Z  -A  RI /    -i -! oeplnt
'M9 D                                            .an, j? 80mbong <g,,,7 ME.ASSAY                         ,             P=  , te
0                                                                          P _    d S            Fer  :DrUCe.OF
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~er 0 0ool --ecssSare
0,L 121 -gu hemeCloDe   Z   A 0  R-    -L-
e 0 0~~~~~~~~~~'                                          t~~ 
1 2                   z~~~~~~~'  A iElo.eE                                                  M LESOI



