Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 26242
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
MALI
HOUSEHOLD ENERGY
(TF 28304-ML)
June 23, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
1988              US$1.00            298.00
1989              US$1.00            319.00
1990              US$1.00            272.00
1991              US$1.00            282.00
1992              US$1.00            265.00
1993              US$1.00            283.00
1994              US$1.00            555.00
1995              US$1.00            499.00
1996              US$1.00            512.00
1997              US$1.00            584.00
1998              US$1.00            590.00
1999              US$1.00            616.00
2000               US$1.00           712.00
2001               US$1.00           733.00
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBD         community-based development
CDD         community-driven development
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GEF         Global Environment Facility
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
MTR         mid-term review
NEAP        National Environmental Action Program
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PPAR        Project Performance Assessment Report
PTI         Program of Targeted Intervention
Fiscal Year
Govemment:        Januaryl - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation     : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Departnent  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation       Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                  Ms. Nalini Kuniar



i
OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence In evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http:/Aworldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnablllty: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ..............................v
Key Staff Responsible ..............................v
Preface ..............................                                                       vii
Summary ..............................                                                        ix
1. Background ..............................1
2. Project Design and Implementation ..............................3
Project Design .............................3
Project Financing Plan .............................4
Project Implementation .............................5
3. Analysis ..............................5
Relevance .............................5
Efficacy .............................6
Efficiency .....................................9
Outcome ............................                                                  10
Sustainability ............................                                           12
Institutional Development Impact ............................                         14
Bank Performance ............................                                         14
Borrower Performance ............................                                     15
4. Evaluation Findings .............................                                          15
Outputs Versus Outcome .......................                                       16
Community-Based Development/Community-Driven Development Aspects of the
Project .............................                                             16
Project Design Issues ............................                                    18
5. Lessons .............................                                                      19
Bibliography .............................                                                    21
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .............................                                       23
Annex B. Borrower Comments .............................                                      25
This report was prepared by Nalini Kumar, who assessed the project in October 2002. The report was
edited by William Hurlbut. George Gamer Woodall provided research support. Soon won Pak and Helen
Joan Mongal provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                ES*                    PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory        Satisfactory      Moderately Unsatsfactory
Sustainability                   Likely             Likely               Non Evaluable
Institutional Development     Substantial         Substantial             Substanbal
Impact
Bank Performance              Satsfactory         Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory        Satisfactory            Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division
of the Bank. The Evaluation Sunmmary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently
verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                    Task Manager/Leader       Division Chief!      Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                      Willem Floor          Magaye Gaye           Nadjib Sefta
Completon                      Willem Floor      Ananda Covindassamy       David Craig






vii
Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Household Energy
Project, for which a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant for US$2.5 million (SDR
1.6 million) was approved in June 1995. The grant became effective in October 1995 and
closed in December 2000, one year behind schedule. An Implementation Completion
Report (ICR; Report No. 22473) was submitted by the Africa Region on July 17, 2001.
This report was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based on the
ICR, the GEF Project Document (Report No. 14350, June 1995), review of Bank files
and a survey of relevant literature. An OED mission traveled to Mali in October 2002
where it discussed the project with Bank staff, relevant government officials,
nongovernmental organizations, beneficiaries, donors, consultants, and academics. The
cooperation and assistance of all stakeholders and government officials is gratefully
acknowledged as is the support of the staff of the World Bank Country Office in Bamako.
The visit by the OED mission to Bamako coincided with that of a team evaluating the
transitional phase of support by Netherlands for Mali's Household Energy Strategy. This
report benefited tremendously from discussions with that team and the draft report
produced by them. The report also benefited from the preliminary findings of a desk
review carried out in OED Community-Driven Development: Lessons from the Sahel-An
Analytical Review. Since the project involved participation of village communities in
forest protection and management, the assessment findings will inform a forthcoming
OED evaluation of Community-Driven Development (5DD).
Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for
comments before being finalized. Borrower comments are reflected as footnotes
throughout the report and also included as Annex B.



ix
Summary
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department on the Household Energy Project in Mali for which a
Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant for US$2.5 million was approved in June 1995.
The grant became effective in October 1995 and closed in December 2000, one year
behind schedule.
One of the most important causes of Mali's serious environmental problems has
been over-exploitation and indiscriminate destruction of its forest resources. As in most
Sahelian countries, fuelwood and charcoal meet 90 percent of the domestic energy needs
of the country. The overarching objective of the Household Energy Project was to
improve the management, and promote rational use, of energy resources. GEF
involvement was to help support the environmental policy objectives of the Government
of Mali with particular emphasis on the reduction of CO2 emissions and abatement of
forest resource depletion. Lessons learned from the IDA-financed Forestry I and II
projects in Mali and the Household Energy project in Niger informed the project design,
although not as thoroughly as they might have. The project design was ambitious and
complex, even though there were essentially only two main components, one related to
household energy demand and the other to household energy supply. On the demand side,
the private sector was to play the lead role in marketing a variety of fuel-efficient stoves,
and the project was to provide support for the identification, design, and implementation
of a marketing program. The supply component was to focus on mobilizing popular
participation in the management of the natural forests and in restructuring the fuelwood
trade so that traders increasingly got their suppliers from managed forests.
The project was co-financed by GEF and the Netherlands, while Germany and
France provided parallel financing. The project's objectives were sound and relevant for
the household energy sector. The PPAR rates outcome as moderately unsatisfactory
rather than satisfactory because, although reasonable success was achieved in meeting
several of the quantitative targets, several fumdamental issues that are crucial to efficient
fuelwood supply management were not thoroughly addressed, and there were significant
shortcomings on the demand side. It is also difficult to say how much of the long-term
development objective of reducing CO2 emissions was achieved. Though the project was
designated a Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI), it is also difficult to tell how much
the project actually improved the living standards of the urban/rural population,
particularly of the poor, as there were no indicators to measure changes in living
standards.
The PPAR rates sustainability as non-evaluable at this stage. The project closed in
December 2000. The Netherlands provided funding for a transitional phase. However,
several challenges, such as establishing effective monitoring and control of fuelwood
markets, harmonization of the village level rural markets with the decentralization
framework, remain, and if they are not addressed appropriately sustainability will be
unlikely. A follow-on Bank project has been prepared (expected to go to the Board in
June 2003); this will provide an opportunity for the Bank to address the shortcomings.
Institutional development impact is rated substantial. Bank performance is rated
unsatisfactory because project design had significant shortcomings despite the long



x
preparation period, and supervision was also wanting on several fronts. Borrower
performance is rated satisfactory.
The PPAR reports on several important design and implementation issues that
need more attention in such an operation. In addition, since the project design
incorporated a participatory approach, the design and implementation of the demand and
supply components have also been assessed on their Community Based Development
(CBD) and Community Driven Development (CDD) aspects. The experience of the
Household Energy Project also offers several important lessons for similar interventions
in Mali and elsewhere:
* The importance of budgeting adequate time and resources in a follow-on project
to consolidate the achievements and overcome the challenges of the predecessor
project cannot be overemphasized. Issues that need urgent attention have been
highlighted throughout the report. Unless this is done effectively the gains made
in setting the pieces of a sound strategy in place may be lost.
*   It is important that appropriate incentives are provided to Bank and Borrower
project teams to design performance indicators that monitor outcomes. Only then
can effective results be achieved. Unless outcome is emphasized, during
implementation, project teams become preoccupied with meeting output targets,
and progress on.outcome gets neglected.
*  Given the poverty alleviation mandate of the Bank, in a PTI intervention it is
important that development objectives are framed partly in terms of poverty
reduction. This should be done in a way that is monitorable and should be backed
up in design by a monitoring and evaluation system capable of measuring poverty
impact.
Gregory K. Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation



1.     Background
1.1   Mali is a large, landlocked country in Sahelian West Africa. With an annual per
capita income of US$240, it is one of the poorest countries in the world with some of the
worst social indicators.' More than 60 percent of its population of about 10 million lives
below the poverty line. Though poverty is primarily a rural phenomenon in Mali, it is also
on the increase in urban areas.
1.2    Agriculture and livestock together provide livelihood to about 80 percent of the
population and account for nearly 50 percent of the country's GDP. Agro-industries (75
percent of industrial GNP) dominate the industrial sector.2 Less than a third of the
country's land area is arable. Desert or semi-desert conditions are prevalent in much of
the northern part of the country. Here pastoralism is the dominant production activity.
The rapidly rising population in the country has put increasing pressure on the fragile
natural resource base, and, along with recurring droughts, has contributed to the process
of desertification in the Sahel region. Agricultural production, even in the southern part of
the country, where rainfall is relatively abundant but variable, is constrained by a poor road
network and market infrastructure, inadequate storage and processing facilities, high
exposure to climatic risks, weak institutional and legal environment, and inadequate
technical skills. Agriculture production-of yams, cassava, maize, sorghum, groundnut,
and beans-is also largely rain-fed. The country has significant irrigation potential but little
of it has been tapped. Rice remains the principal irrigated crop in Mali. Commercial crops,
mainly cotton, are primarily grown for export. The importance of gold as a source of
export revenue has increased tremendously in recent years.
1.3   As in most Sahelian countries, fuelwood and charcoal meet 90 percent of the
domestic energy needs of the country. The modem energy sector is largely undeveloped.
The household sector is the largest energy consumer representing about 88 percent of
total energy demand. The high demand for fuelwood energy puts a tremendous strain on
the wood resources of the country. Mali is lightly forested with around 9 percent forest
cover and an additional 14 percent of other wooded land.3 There are wide variations in
the distribution of the forest/tree cover. Some areas in the southern part of the country,
like the Sikasso and Koulkoro regions, are quite heavily forested, whereas a large part of
the north is semi-desert or desert with sparse or no vegetation. The use of charcoal as an
energy source has been expanding rapidly, primarily in the urban areas. The increasing
demand for charcoal from major cities has created pockets of deforested areas around
urban centers and along access roads in.the southern part of the country.
1.4   Forest resources in Mali are the property of the State, their exploitation governed
by a restrictive Forestry Code. The Malian Forest Service was created in 1935 to protect
the local forest resources against the destructive activities of the local people through
various control instruments (for example, permits and fines). But forest legislation
1. The UNDP 1995 Human Development Report ranked Mali 172 out of 174 countries.
2. As noted in Future Energy Requirements in Africa's Agriculture, an FAO contribution to the African
Energy Program of the African Development Bank.
3. FAO Web site: http://www.fao.org/forestry/fo/country/indexjsp?geo_id=68&lang_id=I



2
enforcement was heavy-handed and the under-staffed and under-equipped forest service
had little success in enforcing the Forestry Code and adequately managing the forest
resources. The repressive measures also created frustration and resentment in the local
populations.4 The local population had no control over whom the forestry agents gave
official permission to exploit the local forest resources, and hence had little incentive to
use the resources in a sustainable manner themselves. The overall result was uncontrolled
exploitation of forest resources.
1.5   In the past two decades, and especially since the popular uprising of March 1991,
which toppled the former single-party regime of President Traore, there has been growing
interest in decentralization (which is also considered a crucial step in the fight against
poverty) and greater willingness to encourage participation of communities in forest
resource protection and management. Given the fragile ecosystem, the government
attaches high priority to environmental protection and is attempting to reorient forestry
and household energy laws and strategies toward greater participation of the rural
population with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors.
1.6    The government formulated a comprehensive household energy strategy with
assistance from the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) in 1992.
This strategy was to be part of the National Plan to Prevent Desertification, which was
initiated in 1987. The strategy aimed to facilitate access of both the urban and rural
population to modem forms of energy and protect the natural environment against
uncontrolled and damaging exploitation of biomass. The Household Energy Project under
assessment was based on this strategy and was prepared by the government with funds
available under a previous credit, the Second Power Project (Credit 1998).
1.7    The overarching project objective was to improve the management of and
promote rational use of energy resources. This primary objective was categorized into
long-term development objectives, implementation objectives, and specific project
objectives. The long-term development objectives were reduction in CO2 emissions,
abatement of forest resource depletion, and increased participation of the private sector in
the management of the household energy sector. A Global Environment Facility (GEF)
grant in the Climate Change focal area was to help support the environmental policy
objectives of the Government of Mali with particular emphasis on the reduction of CO2
emissions and abatement of forest resource depletion The main implementation
objectives were to promote popular participation in household energy activities, rational
use of household energy resources, and improved end use of household fuels. Specific
objectives were to create an enabling environment for project implementation, provide
technical assistance and training to peasants, charcoal makers, producers, and sellers of
stoves, and urban consumers to efficiently harvest and carbonize fuelwood, manage the
4. "Bush fires were entirely forbidden although fires at the start of the dry season have been widely
regarded as favourable to pasture development and the flowering of certain trees. When a forestry agent
detected a bushfire the entire village was punished and had to pay a fine. Villagers often recount how their
'chef de village' was humiliated and jailed until the village paid the fine. The relationship between the
Forestry Service and villagers has been very poor due to the way the laws have been enforced. Villagers
found forestry agents very repressive, and are still suspicious of programmes that increase the presence of
forestry agents in their village." IIED 1998.



3
natural forest in a sustainable manner, effectively market new energy end-use equipment,
and rationally use improved biomass and kerosene stoves.
2.    Project Design and Implementation
PROJECT DESIGN
2.1   The project design was ambitious and complex, even though there were essentially
two main components, one related to the demand and the other to the supply of household
energy. On the demand side, the private sector was to lead in marketing a variety of fuel-
efficient stoves and the project was to support the identification, design, and
implementation of a marketing program. The demand component was to support a
comprehensive information and education program on the rational use of energy, as well as
temporary subsidies to assist consumers in overcoming market barriers. By reducing the
market price of improved kerosene and charcoal stoves, the project hoped to overcome
consumer perception that the new product was financially out of their reach. This was
expected to increase consumer demand for the stoves, which was in turn expected to induce
a production increase. Information campaigns and price monitoring were to ensure that the
subsidy was passed on to stove buyers. While the kerosene stoves were to be imported,
charcoal and fuelwood stoves were to be locally produced and the project was to train local
blacksmiths in their manufacture. The government was to provide the supportive
environment for private sector entrepreneurs to produce and sell improved stoves.
2.2   The supply component was to focus on mobilizing popular participation in the
management of the natural forests and in restructuring the fuelwood trade so that traders
increasingly got their supplies from managed forests. It was to support the design of
fuelwood supply master plans for five towns, assist the preparation and implementation
of village forest management plans in about 260 villages, and support the design and
implementation of a carbonization program. The component was to also provide
institutional support for central and local government authorities to help with project
management and assistance for rural communities in implementing their management
plans. Comprehensive training, client consultation, and an information and education
program on forest management was also to be supported. The concept of a rural fuelwood
market was first developed under the Niger Household Energy Project in 1989 and the
idea was replicated in the project in Mali. The fuelwood market concept is an innovative
approach to sustainable management in the sector. These markets were to serve the need
of the urban areas and were to be located around major cities such as Niamey and
Bamako and along the main fuelwood supply routes (SOS Sahel 2000). Responsibility
for managing the forest areas was transferred to the communities. The supply component
was the larger component accounting for 70 percent of the planned resource allocation.
2.3   In addition to the national objectives, GEF involvement gave the project a global
environmental focus. Since net CO2 emissions from charcoal are considerably higher than
kerosene, the GEF grant was to be used to reduce the cost and market entry barriers for
first-time purchasers of kerosene stoves or cotton stalk briquettes instead of charcoal.



4
Moreover, the improved carbonization techniques were to increase the yield and quality
of charcoal produced.
2.4   The project was a Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI) and was expected to
improve living standards of the rural populations in affected areas. Improved stoves were
expected to also reduce the cost of cooking for low-income consumers. The project was
classified as environmental category C. Use of improved wood, charcoal and kerosene
stoves was to also contribute significantly to reduced indoor environmental pollution as
well as help achieve the government's long-term goals (see para. 1.7).
2.5   Lessons leamed from the IDA-financed Forestry I and II projects in Mali and the
Household Energy project in Niger informed the project design (though in reality to a
somewhat limited extent, as discussed later in para. 3.6). The experience of the earlier
projects highlighted the importance of policy and institutional reform to the success of such
interventions. The government introduced several reforms during project preparation to
help build a policy and regulatory environment conducive to the implementation of project
activities. These reforms consisted of (a) a law regulating the transfer of forest resources
control and management from the State to village management associations; (b) a decree
transforming the Forestry Department from a policing institution into a technical assistance
organization; and (c) a law governing the fiscal and regulatory framework for fuelwood
trade.
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
2.6   At appraisal, total project cost was US$11.2 million. US$5.5 million was to be co-
financed by GEF (US$2.5 or 22 percent of project cost) and the Netherlands (US$3.0
million). The remaining amount was to be provided in the form of parallel financing by
France and Germany. The government was to contribute US$1.2 million. The GEF grant
was to finance the import and sale of kerosene stoves at reduced retail price, including
information campaigns aimed at consumers and retailers, the purchase of equipment to
modernize kilns and training of charcoalers, the purchase of equipment, and training of
operators to carbonize and compress cotton stalks into briquettes. The Netherlands was to
co-finance the preparation and implementation of the urban fuelwood supply master plan,
the plan for recovery of dead wood reserves and the development and implementation of
forest management plans outside the Bamako and Sikasso areas. Germany was to finance
all wood stove activities, including promotional and marketing activities, the M&E
system for stove dissemination training and technical assistance. France was to finance
the design, development, and implementation of village management plans in the
gazetted forests around Bamako as well as in the Sikasso area.
2.7   Actual project cost was US$8.23 million. Only 16 percent of the estimated
amount was spent on the carbonization program. Expenditure on skills development and
public awareness was also significantly lower than estimated. The Netherlands funds and
the GEF Grant were fully disbursed. The Government of Mali contribution is reported to
be as planned-partly provided in funds and partly through waivers of taxes, customs
duties, and other fees and tariffs. GTZ provided support for an improved wood stove
program (about 2 million Deutch Marks). Cooperation Francais provided support for
forest control in the third region of the country (US$0.27 million), and AFD financing



5
was available for the management of classified forests around Bamako between 1996-
2000 (US$2.2 million).
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.8   Project preparation began in 1991 and was carried out in close collaboration with
the government and representatives of the private sector, NGOs, and consumers through
client consultation as well as donor meetings with the co-financiers and parallel
financiers. The project was approved in June 1995 and became effective in October of the
same year. The preparation period was long because the Bank required that major
structural, policy, and institutional changes be introduced up front. The mid-term review
(MTR) was held in December 1997. The project closed in December 2000, one year
behind schedule.
2.9   A Project Steering Committee composed of staff from the Ministries of Energy
and Rural Development was responsible for overall project coordination. Day-to-day
coordination and management was the responsibility of a Project Coordination Unit,
which also comprised members from both ministries. Several factors delayed the start up
of the project. Most of the project vehicles were to be procured in the first year of the
project but arrived in June 1998. There was delay in recruiting for technical assistance,
insufficient counterpart funds, and delayed adoption of the fuelwood taxation decree. The
implementing agency's unfamiliarity with Bank procurement rules also delayed start up.
The long project preparation period should have ensured that these key issues received
attention earlier. The project was extended by one year to make up for the slow start
during the first year of implementation. The rising US $/CFAF exchange rate adversely
affected the importation and sale of kerosene stoves. There was considerable NGO
participation in the promotion, production, and commercialization of charcoal and
kerosene stoves, in identifying and establishing rural fuelwood markets and village forest
management systems.
3.    Analysis
RELEVANCE
3.1   Project relevance is rated substantial. The project's objectives were sound and
relevant for the household energy sector. One of the most important causes of Mali's
serious environmental problems has been over-exploitation and indiscriminate
destruction of its forest resources. Project objectives were in keeping with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS; January 1995), the ESMAP household energy
strategy and the National Environmental Action Program (NEAP), under preparation at
the time of project approval. The project concentrated on three important aspects:
environment, private sector, and community participation-all recognized as important in
the CAS. As also acknowledged in other evaluations, the concept of the rural fuelwood



6
market is very relevant to the economic and political situation of Mali.' Implementation
of the improved stove program was also expected to contribute to reduced indoor
pollution, thereby improving working conditions for women.
EFFICACY
3.2    Efficacy is rated modest. As Box 1 notes, it is difficult to tell how much progress
was achieved on several of the objectives. The discussion in the rest of the report explains
why this is so. The project was reasonably successful in meeting several of its
quantitative targets. But several fundamental issues that are crucial to efficient fuelwood
supply management were not solved. In addition, there were significant shortcomings on
the demand side.
Box 1: Project Objectives and Progress on their Achievement
Objectives                                   Achievements
Long term development objective:                 *  Not clear how much the objective of reduction
*   reduction in CO2 emissions;                     in CO2 emissions was achieved.
*   abatement of forest resource depletion;     *   No reliable data available to show how project
*   increased participation of the private sector in the  investments may have reduced fuelwood
management of the household energy sector;      harvesting and use.
.   Difficult to say how much of the increased
participation in household energy activities can
be attributed to the project.
Implementation objectives:
*   promote popular participation in household energy  *  largely achieved;
activities;
*   rational use of household energy resources;  .  not clear how much achieved;
*   improved end use of household fuels;         *  not clear how much achieved
Specific objectives:
*   create an enabling environment for project   *  Partial achievement-monitoring and control
implementation;                                  of fuelwood markets not handled;
*   provide technical assistance and training to  *  Largely achieved;
peasants, charcoal makers, producers and sellers of
stoves and urban consumers to efficiently harvest
and carbonize fuelwood;                      *  Not clear how much achieved;
* manage the natural forests in a sustainable manner;
* effectively market new energy end-use equipment
and rationally use improved biomass and kerosene  *  Partial achievement
stoves.
5. <La mission d'evaluation trouve le concept 'Marche Rural' tres pertinent dans le cadre politique du Mali
et notarnment de la Lutte Contre la Pauvrete. Le concept 'Marche Rural' a des synergies importantes avec
la decentralisation et la bonne gouvemance. Premierement, le Marche Rural contribue a la
responsabilisation et a l'organisation villageoise a travers la SRG, la comptabilite inteme et exteme, la
negociation, la protection et la valorisation d'une ressource commune. Deuxiemement, le Marche Rural
commence a contribuer aux ressources de la Commune Rurale par le biais de la fiscalite. &>
"The evaluation mission finds the 'Rural Market' concept very relevant in the political framework of Mali
and in particular for the Fight Against Poverty. The "Rural Market" concept has significant synergies with
decentralization and good govemance. Firstly, the Rural Market contributes to responsabilization and
village organization through the SRG, intemal and extemal accountancy, negotiation, protection and
valorization of a common resource. Secondly, Rural Markets are beginning to contribute to the resources of
the Rural Commnune by means of taxation." Kerkhof Paul and Brehima Beredogo 2002.



7
3.3     More than 100,000 improved stoves (against an original target of 60,000) were
sold. There is no longer any direct subsidy on charcoal stoves and a large number of
improved wood and charcoal stoves are now manufactured locally indicating that there has
been success in promoting increased private sector participation in household energy
activities.6 However, it is difficult to say exactly how much of the increased participation
can be attributed to the current project as other donor-assisted projects also supported
improved stoves programs in the country.7 Less success was achieved in promoting
increased use of kerosene stoves and briquette production, promotion of which was
considered the most important factor in reducing CO2 emissions.8 The imported kerosene
stoves were not a commercial success for several reasons: (a) their high price because of
the rising US$-CFAF exchange rate; (b) the increase in the price of petroleum products;
and (c) technical problems encountered with some stoves.9 It is disconcerting that these
problems were not anticipated and adequately dealt with. Especially with such a long
project preparation period, it should have been possible to plan for such contingencies. For
example, a sensitivity analysis on the potential increases in petroleum product prices would
have given private investors a clear perception of the risks involved in entering the market.
With research, field testing, and demonstration the technical problems encountered could
have easily been dealt with. It is also not clear from project documents whether the project
design had unambiguously laid out responsibility for bearing the price risk.
3.4     On the supply side, fuelwood master plans were prepared for Bamako, Mopti,
Koutiala, Segou, and Kayes and were used to establish appropriate household energy
strategies for each town. Among other things, these plans were to also determine the
maximum annual sustainable wood supply in the catchment areas of the concerned
towns. A significant number of communities were mobilized and 200 village forest
management plans were produced and an equal number of rural fuelwood markets
(instead of the 260 planned at appraisal) were created. A substantial number of
6 The Borrower in its comments clarifies that the private sector played a significant role in all project
activities. They note that all physical realizations of the project were executed by the private sector. On the
demand side, all distribution, manufacturing, importing, sales, maintenance, training, animation and
information acts were undertaken by the private sector (artisans, smiths, conmmercemen, import-export,
NGO, communication professionals, etc).
7The Borrower in its comments clarifies that no other stove distribution program was in progress at the
same time as the project. However they do note that there have been other stove distribution programs
supported in the past.
8. "In particular, GEF support for this project will focus on reducing the first cost and market entry barriers
for consumers who wish to start using kerosene or briquets instead of charcoal." Para 19, page 6 Project
Document, Global Environment Facility June 1995.
9 The Borrower in its comments notes that the diffusion of kerosene stoves did in fact have a lot of
problems, such as: (i) the difficulty in getting well functioning stoves; (ii) the increase in the value of the
dollar as the stoves were imported, (iii) the increase in the cost of kerosene. They clarify that towards the
end of the project a well functioning stove was identified and imported. The project had planned on
distributing 20,000 kerosene stoves and it was able to distribute about 10,000. The Borrower further notes
that the increase in the value of the dollar and the price of kerosene (160 CFA at the beginning against
more than 400 towards the end of the project) effectively altered the distribution of the stoves. But this
situation cannot be blamed on the project which has no competencies in this regard. It was impossible for
the project to forsee this situation.



8
charcoalers were trained in improved techniques and numerous campaigns to sensitize
villagers to use wood resources in an efficient manner were held. However 320,000
hectares (against the planned 720,000 hectares) were brought under improved forest
management and the planned deadwood recovery did not take place.
3.5    The centerpiece of the supply strategy was the development of rural fuelwood
markets. Under this concept, a local community is given formal control over the area of
natural woodland that is traditionally recognized to be in its jurisdiction. Along with
control, the community is given exclusive rights to the sale of fuelwood produced from
that area in return for an agreement to manage the woodland sustainably. A rural market
for the sale of fuielwood from the area is established.
3.6    Crucial to the efficient functioning of fuelwood markets is an effective control
and monitoring system. Without such a system the fuielwood markets cannot be made
competitive. If dealers can cut wood from uncontrolled areas without penalty they will
have no incentive to go to fuelwood markets. Though the project helped establish 200
rural markets, the essential conditions for their effective operation-the monitoring and
control system-could not be established under the project. A higher taxation rate had
been established for wood coming from uncontrolled areas to encourage traders to get
their wood supplies from controlled areas where the rate was lower."' In theory, this
strategy prevents indiscriminate exploitation of natural woodlands. In practice, however,
such a strategy is very difficult to implement. Shortage of personnel and vehicles and
tight budgets make it difficult for forest agents to monitor the movement of wood from
uncontrolled forest areas. Moreover, it has been pointed out, that one of the reasons for
taxing wood is to get revenues for the government and since fuelwood markets operate in
definite areas, it is easier for forest agents to track wood coming from them and hence
fulfill any revenue earning quotas." Significant corruption and fraud in terms of
payments by transporters to forest agents have also been reported. The actual application
of the differentiated taxation rates in Mali has skewed the competitive balance against
rather than in favor of controlled markets (Foley, Kerkhof and Madougou 2002). It is
now widely accepted that the system does not provide the incentives to make the village
wood management system a sustainable activity. The importance of monitoring and
control was clearly recognized by a joint UNDP/World Bank report on the Niger
Household Energy Project on which the Mali project was modeled..2.3 Since the Mali
1o. In a controlled area a detailed management forest management plan has been prepared and agreed
between the community and the concerned government entity. Such a plan divides the wooded area for a
community into parcels, specifying clearly the order in which the parcels can be harvested and laying down
annual harvesting quotas.
11. Even then, the woodflow control system currently collects only about 10 percent of the potential
revenues.
12. "It was clear, however, that simply setting up such rural markets would achieve little in itself. Fuelwood
dealers, for example, would not willingly buy their supplies from markets run by well-organized local
communities if they could obtain the fuelwood they wanted more cheaply from areas where control over
cutting and the amounts harvested was weak or nonexistent. They would require financial incentives to use
the markets rather than the open woodlands, and controls and penalties would be needed to ensure that the
new system was not abused. In short, successful implementation of the rural market system required a
comprehensive planning, monitoring, taxation, and control system that covered the entire fuelwood



9
project was replicating the fuelwood market model developed for Niger, Bank staff
should have been aware of the significance of the shortcoming. Further, although
supervision missions recognized the problem, the importance of working out an urgent
solution apparently was not fully appreciated."4 Currently, lack of adequate monitoring
and control is having a large negative impact on the functioning of the rural markets in
Mali. An independent evaluation notes that already more than half the rural markets
established under the project are no longer functional.'5
EFFICIENCY
3.7    A qualitative assessment of efficiency supports a rating of modest. No economic
rate of return was calculated for the project at either the appraisal or the completion stage.
The ICR notes that this was because of the innovative and learning nature of the project.
Neither was any other measure of efficiency provided. This is a significant shortcoming
and an attempt at calculating an economic rate of return should have been made at least at
the ICR stage, particularly since the main parameters of the project are quantifiable.
3.8    The kerosene stoves were not a commercial success and it is difficult to say how
much of the success on the improved wood and charcoal stoves was because of the
current project as other donor and NGO efforts have also attempted to promote an
improved stove program in the country. The supply component was the larger of the two
components with 70 percent of resources going to it, and as already noted (para. 3.6),
crucial supply issues relevant to establishing sustainable resource management and
abatement of forest resource degradation have not been tackled. Though 320,000 hectares
were brought under improved management, 200,000 tons of deadwood that was supposed
to have been harvested during the lifetime of the project was not. In addition, the
improved carbonization program and the success in the promotion of improved charcoal
stoves may well have increased tree harvesting for increased production of charcoal. No
catchment zone of each major urban area." The Niger Household Energy Project World Bank Technical
Paper No. 362. Energy Series. Joint UNDP World Bank ESMAP. April 1997.
13. Effective control over fuelwood transport was the key to the proposed new system. If there were
substantial loopholes, enabling dealers to evade the taxes on wood from uncontrolled areas, the competitive
position of the new markets would be undermined. The answer was to upgrade the existing, largely
ineffectual, control system. The Niger Household Energy Project World Bank Technical Paper No. 362.
Energy Series. Joirit UNDP World Bank ESMAP. April 1997.
14. "It is now agreed that the taxation system will not provide the incentives to make the village wood
management systems a sustainable activity, and that this should be changed." PSR 08/21/2001
15. (< La presente evaluation s'est limitee pour l'essentiel aux Marches Ruraux crees ou finalises pendant la
phase transitoire ; les Marches Ruraux qui fonctionnent depuis 1997 n'ont pas ete enquetes. Malgre cette
limitation, plusieurs parametres etudies par la mission semblent coincider avec ceux des Marches Ruraux
cre6s dans la premiere phase. D'ailleurs, les difficultes vecues par les Marches Ruraux de la premiere phase
sont mises en evidence par le constat que la moitie n'est plus fonctionnelle. >>
"The present evaluation is limited essentially to Rural Markets created or finalized during the transitional
stage; Rural Markets which have functioned since 1997 were not surveyed. In spite of this limitation,
several parameters studied by the mnission seem to coincide with those of the Rural Markets created in the
first phase. Also, the difficulties experienced by Rural Markets from the first phase are highlighted by the
observation that more than half are no longer functional." Final Report of the Transitional Phase. Paul
Kerkhof and others. November 2002.



10
reliable data are available to show how project investments may have reduced fuelwood
harvesting and use.
OUTCOME
3.9    On balance the assessment rates outcome moderately unsatisfactory. OED rates
outcome as moderately unsatisfactory when a project is expected to achieve its major
relevant objectives but with major shortcomings. The shortcomings outlined under
efficacy are significant.
3.10   It is also difficult to say how much of the long-term development objective of
reducing CO2 emissions was achieved. The ICR reports that 130,000 tons of C02/year
were abated (ICR, Annex 1) and claims that the global objective of reducing CO2
emissions was achieved through the introduction, sale, and use of improved fuelwood and
charcoal stoves (ICR para 4.1 page 4). It is not clear from the ICR how the amount of
CO2 abated per year was calculated. While introduction of improved stoves will no doubt
result in fuelwood saving, the current assessment has concerns about whether overall
project activity did result in CO2 abatement on the order claimed for several reasons.
First, a significant part of the GEF grant was to promote use of kerosene stoves to
substitute for the use of charcoal (Footnote 8). However, the kerosene stove promotion
part of the project was the least successful subcomponent. Second, the project was
successful in promoting fuel-saving charcoal stoves. Though the ICR estimates this, there
is no reliable data to show how much saving in wood fuel harvesting and use was actually
achieved.'6 Moreover, researchers argue that the link between fuel-saving stoves and
prevention of woodland depletion is very weak." Third, the promotion campaigns
supported under the project helped increase the use of improved charcoal stoves and
hence increased charcoal consumption in the cities. 18 Data supplied by the Household
Energy Unit shows that charcoal consumption has increased substantially in the major
cities. The percentage of households using charcoal in the city of Bamako increased from
3 percent in 1978 to over 60 percent in 2000. Charcoal use in the city increased from
16 The Borrower in its comments claims that data exists at the project level to show the real savings in fuel
consumed and reduction in C02 caused by improved stoves. The assessment does not deny the existence of
data. It notes that the ICR provides an estimate on the amount of saving in woodfuel harvesting and use and
assumes that the ICR estimate is made on the basis of the available project level data. However the
assessment has concerns about the reliability of the data especially since the ESMAP study shows that the
link between woodland depletion and stove use is tenuous.
17. "Any connection between woodland depletion and stove use is, however, at best, tenuous. There are so
many variables affecting woodfuel use in any particular area that pinning down the effect of a certain
number of improved stoves is virtually impossible without impracticably detailed surveys over a
considerable period. Most deforestation, in any case, is a result of clearing land for agriculture rather than
woodfuel harvesting." ESMAP 2001
1s The Borrower in its comments notes the following: "I1 est indeniable que les fourneaux ameliores
economisent beaucoup plus de charbon que les fourneaux traditionnels et pour les memes quantites de bois
les meules ameliorees produisent beaucoup plus de charbon. Le projet n'a pas encourage les producteurs de
charbon a produire beaucoup plus, c'est la demande des consommateurs qui en est le principal moteur." ( It
is undeniable that improved stoves save much more coal than traditional stoves and for the same quantities
of wood the improved charcoaling techniques produce much more coal. The project did not encourage coal
producers to produce much more, it is the demand of consumers which is the principle engine).



I1
15,800 tons in 1990 to 80,000 tons in 2000. Other studies have also reported the
increased use of charcoal in cities in Mali.'9 While the improved stove designs may be
promoting efficiency in charcoal use, increased use of stoves increases overall charcoal
consumption. Researchers note that this can have a negative impact on the process of
promotion of alternate sources of energy.20 Fourth, as noted by an independent
evaluation, the life of the improved charcoal stoves is between 2 to 4 years. It is not clear
how many of the improved stoves that were marketed were used to replace units that had
broken down.2' 'Fifth, through the improved carbonization program the project led to
improvement in the yield quality of charcoal. This may have encouraged full-time
charcoalers to produce more rather than less charcoal.
3.11   The ICR claims that the project benefited women in a major way both in the
urban and rural areas-in the urban areas directly because of the cleaner cooking
environment fostered through the improved stoves and indirectly because improved
stoves reduced energy expenditures allowing more income for meeting other household
needs. In the rural areas it is argued that since women are often major actors in the wood
fuel chain they have benefited from the creation of fuelwood markets and the improved
charcoaling techniques. However, monitoring indicators did not track how the project
may have benefited women. Some studies have actually shown that women are often
losers when a fuelwood market is established. 24Though the project was a PTI, it is also
19. "The urban shift from fuelwood to charcoal is illustrated by the case of Bamako, Mali where in 1990
over 85 percent of families used wood as their everyday household fuel. The figure is under 50 percent
today, and in 1997 charcoal (which had previously been kept for such special uses as tea-making and
barbecuing) replaced wood as the primary fuel in Bamako." Unasylva 2002. The Borrower in its comments
however notes that the tremendous increase in demand of wood charcoal consumption was not due to the
project and that this phenomenon has been present in cities (particularly Bamako) before the project.
20. "Improved charcoal stoves, for example, may encourage greater use of charcoal and slow the shift to
alternative fuels." ESMAP 2001.
21. << En ce qui conceme la reduction de l'emission en CO. par les foyers ameliores, il reste a montrer
quelle proportion des foyers ameliores diffuses grice au projet representent une augmentation du nombre
total, par rapport aux foyers ameliores qui remplacent les unites amorties a la fm de leur vie utile. C'est la
condition de 'permanence' de 1'UNFCCC qui est important: si les fourneaux am6liorees ne sont
fonctionnels que pendant 2, 3 ou 4 ans, il manque de la permanence. )>
"Concerning the reduction of emissions in CO. by the improved stoves, it remains to be seen which
proportion of the improved stoves distributed during the project represent an increase in the total number,
compared to the improved stoves which replace units at the end of their service life. It is the condition of
'permanence' of UJNFCCC which is significant: if the improved stoves are functional only for 2, 3 or 4
years, it lacks permanence." Kerkhof and Beredogo 2002.
22 The Borrower in its comments does not agree with the findings of the independent evaluation. It notes
that the assertion does not have any basis. According to them the reality is that the only part of the
improved stoves that deteriorates quickly is the grill (combustion chamber). The element is simply replaced
by blacksmiths in the event of deterioration for a few hundred CFA and the stove can continue to be used
for long periods.
23. Thus, for example, the document by Foley and others (2002) summarizes the verbal responses of
affected people that were interviewed. The women's response: "The men get their money, and marry new
wives. We have to walk longer distances to gather firewood. Some of us even made some money from
firewood collection but this no longer happens. And then there is the gum collection which earned us cash.
But now the gum tree is being cut for firewood and we are left without."



12
difficult to tell how much the project actually improved the living standards of the
urban/rural population, particularly of the poor, as there were no indicators to measure
changes in living standards. Studies do show that the charcoal sector has considerable
importance as a source of livelihood in several West African countries. However, at the
time of project launch-as acknowledged in project documents-for most Malian
households the shift from wood to charcoal was considered a luxury. It is not clear how
many of the lower-income urban and rural dwellers switched to charcoal as a result of the
project-supported information, education, and communication program and because of
the available subsidy.
SUSTAINABILITY
3.12   On balance, sustainability-the resilience to risk of net benefits over time-is
rated non-evaluable. The project closed in December 2000. The Netherlands provided
funding for a transitional phase.25 However, several challenges remain, and if not
addressed appropriately, will make sustainability unlikely. A follow-on project supported
by the Bank has been prepared (expected to go to the Board in June 2003) and provides
an opportunity for the Bank to address the shortcomings. The Household Energy and
Universal Rural Access project intends to support the Government of Mali's efforts to
increase access to energy services to help achieve its poverty reduction targets including
those linked to the Millennium Development Goals. Besides providing support for
accelerating the use of modem energy in rural and peri-urban areas and energy sector
reform processes, the project envisages building on the achievements of the recently
completed Household Energy Project. However, it is not clear from the available project
documents how much the emphasis in the household energy sector will be on "scaling
up" versus dealing with critical constraints. If project implementation does grapple with
the major constraints, sustainability will become likely. It would be important for the
region or ESMAP to study the Household Energy Sector in Mali on completion of the
new project.
3.13   Some of the most significant issues for sustainability are raised here. First, the
mere passing of policies and laws does not ensure sustainability of project results and it is
necessary to grapple with the constraints that hinder implementation. Differential tax rates
on wood coming from controlled and non-controlled markets have been established.
However, monitoring and control has to be made effective to allow the markets to function
effectively. An evaluation recently carried out on the transitional phase shows that the issue
24 The Borrower in its comments does not accept the fact that women could be losers. They note that
carbonization activities are generally undertaken by women and a study was done to appreciate the role of
women in the functioning of rural wood markets. According to the Borrower this study showed that all the
small needs of villagers are satisfied by the sale of fuelwood and charcoal. This assessment does not deny
the important role that women could play in the creation and working of fuelwood markets. It simply notes
that monitoring indicators did not track how the project may have benefited them and it quoted a study that
noted that women may have actually lost out. Conversation with women during field visits also confirmed
that the benefits to them may have been limited.
25. The support from Netherlands was for an initial transitional phase of 15 months from January 2001 to
March 2002. However, the period was extended by three months until June 2002.



13
did not get as much attention as it deserves in the transitional phase either.26 The
government lacks the budgetary resources to enforce monitoring and control. The
possibility of making a private entity responsible for monitoring and control is being
explored. It is not clear how this would work and whether this proposal adequately
considers the implications of putting the private sector in a policing role. Some donors
favor the establishment of a cooperative system. However, there is still no consensus. A
challenge for the Bank would be to ensure that coordination among donors helps build a
consensus toward an effective solution.
3.14   Second, responsibility for managing wood resources is being moved to the
communities. However, unless they have a stake in managing the forest lands there is a
possibility that they may lose interest. Conversation with village communities during the
assessment mission found that at present the returns in terms of increased prestige for
communities in managing their wood resources may be significant, but economic returns
are low.
3.15   Third, though fuelwood supply master plans were prepared for each of the five
towns, little has been done to ensure that these strategies are continuously updated. Since
these documents were to be used for planning the establishment of the rural fuelwood
markets and for setting annual supply quotas it is imperative that they be updated
regularly. The preparation of these plans required a significant amount of fieldwork and
data analysis. Budgetary resources and technical expertise would also be required for
updating them. However, despite accounting for about 28 percent of total project cost,
foreign technical assistance in the Household Energy Project was not provided in a way
that it would result in sufficient transfer of capacity to the country level to make this
possible. A critical challenge for the Bank during the implementation of the new project
is to ensure that local technical capacity does get built and a strategy for updating
fuelwood supply master plans on a continuous basis is established.
3.16   Fourth, as recognized by the ICR itself, the harmonization of village-level rural
markets with the decentralization framework still remains to be done. Most fuelwood
markets exist at the village level and the basic unit of local forest management is
generally a village whereas under the decentralization framework the rural communes
and not the villages are the lowest level of administration. Analysts note that though
legislation allows the commune to delegate management of natural resources to the
village if a rural commune decides to maximize income from levies on resource
exploitation against the conservation goals of a particular village, there is little that the
community can do.
26. ((La CCL n'a guere contribue a l'amelioration de la reglementation, de la fiscalite et du contr6le
forestier. Elle a effectue trois missions de contr6le forestier selon les rapports disponibles a la mission, un
niveau d'activite que nous estimons largement insuffisant pour une periode de 15 mois. >
"The CCLs (Wood Fuel Cell Offices) hardly contributed to the imnprovement of regulation, taxation and
forest control. It carried out three forest control missions according to reports available to the mission, a
level of activity which we consider largely insufficient for one 15 month period." Final Report of the
Transitional Phase. November 2002.



14
3.17  While diversifying into wider energy issues in the new project may have its
advantages, given the limited institutional capacity in the country it is important for the
Bank to be aware that there could be some critical challenges. First, such an effort may
overtax the limited institutional capacity of the government. Second, attention to issues
like effective monitoring and control could be diluted. Third, as a consequence less
attention could be given to crucial second-phase challenges. For example, during the first
project fuelwood markets were established only in those areas where there were no
boundary conflicts over areas of natural woodlands. Although more than 300,000
hectares are under village management, this is less than 15 percent of the total forest area
in the country. During the second phase it will also be important to explore whether the
concept can be applied in those areas where conflict and disagreement over boundaries
between communities exists. In Mali, boundaries and rights over woodland have
traditionally been determined generally by customary rules. Woodland limits are rarely
codified in the Sahel and there are no maps or boundary markers (SOS Sahel 2000).
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
3.18  Institution development impact is rated substantial. The project provided
institutional support to central and local government with project management, the private
sector received support for the production and sale of improved stoves and considerable
capacity was built in the communities to implement their forest management plans. Prior to
project implementation a substantial number of legal and policy changes were introduced.
Responsibility for control and management of the natural forests has been transferred from
the State to the villagers in several communities; a regulatory framework has been put in
place which, at least on paper, penalizes the purchase of wood and charcoal that was
obtained from unmanaged forests. Fuelwood supply master plans for five towns were
developed and 200 rural fuelwood markets were created. NGOs helped with the
identification and creation of fuelwood markets. The project experience has made it clear
that large-scale management of woodlands through sharing of responsibilities between the
government, the communities, and the private sector is possible. However, substantial
challenges remain as already noted on both the demand and supply fronts.
BANK PERFORMANCE
3.19  Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. Several important factors did not
receive the attention they deserved.
3.20 First, there were some fundamental weaknesses in design as noted by paragraphs
4.10 to 4.13.
3.21 Second, Bank performance was wanting in adequately transferring the lessons of
experience from Niger to Mali. This was especially important given that the OED
Evaluation Memorandum on the ICR rated the outcome of the Niger Energy Project
unsatisfactory and its sustainability unlikely. Other reports on the experience of the Niger
project also showed that control was key to effective supply management (footnote 12
and 13). Even before the fuelwood markets were created, the underpaid and understaffed
Forestry Service in Mali had little success in enforcing the Forestry Code and adequately



managing the existing forests. Monitoring and control had always been a weakness. It is
unfortunate that the importance of strengthening monitoring and control to allow for
effective functioning of fuelwood markets was not adequately emphasized. Bank
supervision missions recognized that monitoring and control was a major issue yet did
little to push for a solution.
3.22  Third, despite the significant amount of project resources that were devoted to
technical assistance, domestic technical capacity was not sufficiently developed.2"
Transfer of knowledge to local counterparts should have been an important part of the
technical assistance component. If the issue was not given sufficient attention at the time
of project design, it should have at least been emphasized and corrected during
supervision.
3.23  Fourth, despite the long preparation period, key aspects of project preparation
were neglected, such as timely recruitment for technical assistance, lining up of
counterpart funds, and strengthening procurement capabilities.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
3.24  On balance, borrower performance is rated satisfactory even though there were
some issues that affected implementation as noted in paragraphs 2.8 and 2.9. Though
some responsibility for the lack of an effective control and monitoring system is the
Borrower's, it is important to remember that the concept of fuelwood markets was new to
Mali and the implementing agency was looking to the Bank for direction, guidance and
technical expertise. The emphasis in the project and the message from Bank supervision
missions was on outputs and not outcomes (see paragraphs 4.2 and 4.3 for a detailed
discussion). Mission conversations with government and implementing agency officials
in Bamako revealed that the importance of efficient monitoring and control to the
functioning of fuelwood markets is now well appreciated. The officials are keen that the
new project consolidate the gains of the Household Energy Project.
3.25 All goods, works, and services procured were in compliance with IDA
procurement procedures. The government passed the necessary policies and laws as
required before the project became effective.
4.    Evaluation Findings
4.1   The assessment notes several important issues that merit consideration. In
addition, since the project design incorporated a participatory approach, the design and
implementation of the demand and supply components have also been assessed on their
Community Based Development (CBD) and Community Driven Development (CDD)
27. As planned, technical assistance and consultancies were to account for 16 percent of total costs. Actual
expenditure on these was much higher-28 percent of total costs. A significant percentage of technical
assistance was provided through international experts. Conversations with government officials revealed
that despite considerable amount of resources being spent on it, foreign technical assistance did not result in
sufficient transfer of knowledge to the local counterparts.



16
aspects. Box 2 describes the use of the CBD and CDD terminology and the various levels
of participation as outlined in a recent OED report.
OUTPUTS VERSUS OUTCOME
4.2.  The project experience shows that despite the emphasis on results in the Bank,
greater emphasis was placed in project design on achieving outputs than outcomes. The
emphasis in monitoring was also on physical output targets-number of fuelwood
markets formed, number of hectares brought under improved forest management, number
of stoves marketed, etc. It is not surprising, therefore, that though several physical targets
were achieved, it is difficult to say how far the project was successful in promoting the
rational use of energy resources or abating forest resource depletion in Mali.
Undoubtedly, the project had the potential to help the country build a system that can
promote rational use of energy resources, but since the focus of implementation remained
on achievement of outputs, progress on outcome, crucial to building such a system, did
not receive the attention required. The underlying assumption seems to have been that
achievement of outputs would somehow result in achievement of effective outcomes. The
follow-on project has to avoid being caught in the same trap.
4.3   Analysts might argue that, on the demand side, increased private sector
participation was an outcome that was achieved. However, as already noted, since no
baseline was constructed it is difficult to tell how much of the achievement on this
objective was because of the current project.
COMMUNITY-BASED DEVELOPMENT/COMMUNITY-DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT ASPECTS
OF THE PROJECT
4.4   Both the demand and the supply components incorporated a participatory
approach. On the demand side the emphasis was on consultation and information sharing.
The preparation phase involved field surveys, client consultations, and consumer testing.
Programs of radio advertisements in local languages and demonstrations of energy-
efficient appliances were executed by NGOs and private sector operators.
4.5   On the supply side, the central idea was transfer of control and responsibility over
local resources from the forest service to the local communities-a collaborative
arrangement between the Forest Department and the communities in the management of
natural resources. In the pre-1990 era, village communities, no matter how concerned
they were about destruction of the forests in their neighborhood, had no legal rights to
control or direct the fuelwood harvested. With collaboration, the boundary of the natural
woodland over which village jurisdiction was exercised was agreed between the village
and the government authority and the local community had exclusive rights to the sale of
fuelwood produced from it. The forest service could no longer give out permits to traders
as in the past and played no direct role in policing the forest area. The forest area was to
be managed in accordance with a management plan agreed between the community and
the government. The experience of the project shows that the principle of subsidiarity
(delegating control to the lowest appropriate level) appears to have been applied very
realistically-the State leading in such matters as demarcation and planning, and



17
preparation of fuelwood master plans for the towns, and leaving local management to the
local population.
Box 2. Community-Based Development and Community-Driven Development
No clear distinction between CBD and CDD approaches exists either in the literature or in the Bank. In the
mid-1990s the terms were used interchangeably. Again, though it is not stated anywhere, there is increasing
consensus within the Bank that projects with higher levels of participation-those that give control over
resources and decisions to communities (that is, those that collaborate and empower or are substantially
"driven" by the community)-are now understood to be CDD and distinguished from CBD, which gives
less control over decisions and resources but is nevertheless participatory. Bank experience shows that
during the early years of experimentation with the participatory process, in the 1980s and early 1990s,
lower levels of participation (information sharing and consultation) were more common. The latest CDD
projects put greater emnphasis on empowerment, as it is believed that when communities are in charge of
their own development the considerable potential and social capital at the grass-roots level can be
harnessed to improve the livelihood of the people. The World Development Report 2000/2001 defines
empowerment as the strengthening of the capacity of poor people to affect decisions that have a bearing on
their lives, and removing barriers that prevent them from engaging effectively in political, social, and
economic activities. In the past, CBD was used as a broader term that covered al four levels of
participation (information sharing, consultation, collaboration, and empowerment).
Source: Community-Driven Development: Lessons from the Sahel An Analytical Review. The Operations Evaluation
Department 2003.
4.6    For such collaboration to work effectively both the parties should have an
incentive to participate. For the Forest Department, reduced direct control over forest
resources also meant diminished responsibility for directly patrolling the forest areas. For
the communities, direct responsibility for managing the forests was a new experience. For
them the very idea of keeping traders out, selling fuelwood at a price determined by the
villagers themselves, and collecting taxes on behalf of the government brought a kind of
power and prestige. Moreover, analysts argue that communities are likely to be more
inclined to regulate their own use of forest resources if they know that they have power to
control access and the level of use by others.28 However, several issues that remain
unsolved have implications for the incentives of the communities to manage the
woodlands.
4.7     First, as noted in para. 3.16, and as recognized by the ICR (para. 5.2), in the
current decentralization framework, the commune is the lowest level of administration
whereas most rural markets are at the village level. From the villagers' viewpoint the
implication is that in case of a legal dispute the court would be unable to recognize the
right of the village community.
4.8    Second, villagers met during field visits voiced concern about the excessive rates
of taxation that leave little financial incentives for them to manage the forests. As noted
by several reviews, unlike in Niger, in Mali a much greater proportion of the tax collected
28. "Villagers are increasingly convinced that resource use must be regulated. However, they are unlikely
to exercise restraint in their own use of resources, when they have no power to control access and levels of
use by others. This implies in the Malian context that villagers want an official recognition of their local
regulations and need to receive assistance with their enforcement." IIED 1998.



18
from fuelwood markets goes to the central government. Although a portion of the tax
going to the central government was intended to be invested in forest management, the
details of these arrangements have yet to be worked out (Foley, Kerkhof and Madougou
2002). Currently the villagers are hopeful of benefits materializing in the near future.
Some villagers met by the mission expressed the desire to be able to market the wood
products themselves so that they could receive the profits currently going to
intermediaries. But it is easy to see that if they do not gain materially in a short time
villagers may loose interest in managing the forest area collaboratively.
4.9   Third, as analysts note, the issue of sharing of benefits within a village community
also needs adequate attention. As noted by a recent report on local forest management in
the Sahel where there are socioeconomic and ethnic differences in a village attention may
need to be given to draffing of sharing mechanisms for usufruct and management (SOS
Sahel 2000).
PROJECT DESIGN ISSUES
4.10  Though it built on the experience of earlier projects in Mali and to a limited extent
on the Niger Household Energy project, ex-post analysis reveals several fundamental
weaknesses in project design.
4.11  First, the project portrayed the transfer of forest management responsibility to
village communities, and increased participation of the private sector, as a reduction in the
role of the government. Since monitoring and control of supplies from fuelwood markets
was left with the goverpment, in effect, the policing role of the Forest Department was
changed from that of patrolling the forest areas to patrolling the supply of fuelwood coming
from controlled and un6ontrolled forest areas. The government was entering into a
partnership with the cor,mumnties and the private sector in managing forest resources. This
was a different role to the one that they had played in the past, but it was not exactly a
reduced role. The emphasis in the Bank on private sector development may have been
responsible for this interpretation. But, the fact remains, that since the project design
emphasized the idea of a reduction in the role of the government, adequate attention was
not given to the critical issue of strengthening the capacity of the government to adequately
control and monitor the fuelwood trade. Moreover, since the project projected the change in
role as a reduced role for the goverrunent there was natural resistance from the government
officials to the change.
4.12 Second, the ambitious project design was not grounded in reality and quality at
entry was unrealistic. Even before the project with the restrictive forestry code the major
problem was poor enforcement as the means available to the Forest Service were meager.
At project design, thought should have been given to how such an under-staffed and
under-equipped department would be able to effectively control the fuelwood trade. In
addition, in the case of imported stoves, the project design should have given careful
attention to the issue of who would bear the price risk.



19
4.13   Third, as analysts note the emphasis of this Bank project, like that of several
others, was on fuelwood production and harvesting to the neglect of other forest uses.'
Communities generally rely on forests and woodlands to meet a variety of needs. The
emphasis on fuelwood alone may bring about significant changes in the socioeconomic
fabric of society. With the emphasis on forest protection and management for fuelwood
production, nomadic pastoralists may lose out. Where fuelwood is given priority,
production and harvesting of non-timber forest products may receive less attention,
negatively affecting the income of certain sections of the village community (footnote
23). In other cases, fuelwood harvesting may be at the expense of valuable construction
timber, which may have been the main source of livelihood for another section of the
community.30 Greater attention and care is needed in project design and implementation
to how the emphasis on fuelwood might effect the different benefits that villagers get
from a forest land and if necessary provide adequate safety or buffer mechanisms.
5.     Lessons
Lesson I. The importance of budgeting adequate time and resources in a follow-on
project to consolidate the achievements and overcome the challenges of the predecessor
project cannot be overemphasized. Issues that need urgent attention have been
highlighted throughout the report (see paragraphs 3.6, 3.13 for example). Unless this is
done effectively the gains made in setting the pieces of a sound strategy in place may be
lost.
5.1    Putting the policy and legal framework in place, transferring forest management to
communities, and establishing rural markets is only the first phase. The more important and
possibly more difficult second phase is to consolidate the gains-ensure that the fuelwood
markets function effectively, and the communities have a vested interest in managing the
forest resources and can see benefits flowing to them. The follow-on energy project does
intend to build on the achievements of the household energy project, but since it is also
diversifying into wider energy issues it is not clear how much attention will be given to
effectively consolidating gains and addressing the shortcomings.
Lesson 2. It is important that appropriate incentives are provided to Bank and Borrower
project teams to design performance indicators that monitor outcomes. Only then can
effective results be achieved. Unless, outcome is emphasized, during implementation,
29. "Many donor interventions have focused, for example, upon fuelwood production as the primary goal
of woodland management, but while this may be the most important source of income in some areas, in
others it is not. Moreover, the relative importance attached to fuelwood production in comparison with
agriculture, cattle rearing and other activities in any particular area can vary greatly with time and
circumstances. Livestock rearing, which is often neglected, or regarded as a problem to be dealt with in
woodland management projects, can play a particularly important role." SOS Sahel 2000.
30. "Equally resource exploitation may be biased towards one use such as firewood -production at the
expense of valuable construction poles or high quality fodder, because the management institution is
dominated by commercial firewood interests. This is particularly the case when urban commercial firewood
interests are supported and protected by the forest service." SOS Sahel 2000.



20
project teams become preoccupied with meeting output targets, and progress on outcome
gets neglected.
5.2   In the Household Energy Project monitoring indicators were defined in terms of
the number of operational fuelwood supply master plans, number of improved cook
stoves sold, number of rural markets established, and number of charcoalers trained. This
diverted attention from more important outcome issues like whether the established rural
markets were functioning effectively or not, whether moving forest management
responsibility to the communities actually resulted in improved protection, and whether
selling efficient stoves actually led to fuelwood saving and increased incomes.
Lesson 3. Given the poverty alleviation mandate of the Bank in a PTI intervention it is
important that development objectives are framed partly in terms ofpoverty reduction. It
is necessary to do this in a way that is monitorable and back it up in design by a
monitoring and evaluation system capable of measuring poverty impact.
5.3   The Household Energy project was a PTI and was expected to improve living
standards of rural populations in affected areas and stabilize employment opportunities in
the fuelwood trade. Low-income consumers were also expected to benefit from the
increased and proper use of kerosene and charcoal stoves. However it is not possible to
assess how far it was successful in improving rural living standards as there were no
monitoring indicators established to do so.



21
Bibliography
ESMAP 1991. Mali. Issues and Options in the Energy Sector Report No. 8423-MLI.
ESMAP 2001. Sustainable Woodfuel Supplies from the Dry Tropical Woodlands.
Foley Gerald Paul Kerkhof and Djibrilla Madougou 2002. A review of the Rural Firewood
Market Strategy in West Africa. Africa Region Working Paper Series Number 35.
HED 1998. Elaborating a Local Convention for Managing Village Woodlands in Southern Mali.
Issue Paper No.78. Thea Hilhorst and Amandi Coulibaly December International Institute
for Environment and Development Drylands Programme.
Kerkhof Paul and Brehima Beredogo 2002. Evaluation Finale Strategie Energie Domestique
Phase Transitoire rapport final.
Maiga Alassane B. 2001. The Forest Revenue system and Government Expenditure in Mali. A
paper prepared for the FAO work program component on financing sustainable forest
management Working Paper FSFM/WP/06
ODI 1986. Mali As a Case Study of Forest Policy in the Sahel: Institutional Constraints on Social
Forestry by Chun L Lai and Asmeen Khan Social Forestry Network. Network Paper 3e.
October.
ODI 1992. Forest Policies Forest Politics. ODI Agricultural Occasional Paper 13. Edited by Gill
Shepherd.
RPTES. 1995. Local Forestry Control in Burkina Faso, Mali , Niger, Senegal and the Gambia: A
Review and Critique of New Participatory Policies. A Regional Synthesis Report. Dr.
Jesse Ribot. January 1995.
RPTES 1996. Review of Policies in the Traditional Energy Sector. Regional Report Burkina
Faso, Mali, Niger, Senegal, The Gambia. Westem Africa Department World Bank.
SOS International 2000. Local Forest Management in the Sahel. Towards a New Social Contract.
Paul Kerkhof. Edited by Gerald Foley. UK. London.
Unasylva 1992. Natural Forest Management in semi-arid Africa: Status and Research Needs. J
Fries and J. Heermans. An International Journal of Forestry and forest industries. FAO
No. 168.
Unasylva 2002. Charcoal production and use in Africa: what future? By P. Girard. Wood Energy
Volume 53. No. 4 (No. 211).
World Bank 1995. Niger Household Energy Project Energy Note 4.



23                                        Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
MALI HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                               11.2               8.23                  73 %
GEF Grant amount                                   2.5               2.5                  100%
Cofinancing (Netherlands)                          3.5               3.5                  100%
Parallel Financing
Cancellation
Institutional performance
Project Dates
Original                       Actual
Appraisal                                                                           05/08/1995
Board approval                                        06/22/1995
Signing                                               07/24/1995
Effecliveness                                         12/31/1995                    10/27/1995
Closing date                                          12/31/1999                    12/31/2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                         Actual US$ 000
Preappraisal                                 78.0                                 292.0
AppraisaVNegotiations                        27.8                                 73.9
Supervision                                 135.5                                 584.1
ICR                                          8.0                                  35.3
Total                                       249.3                                 985.3



24                                      Annex A
Mission Data
Types of       Date      No. of    Specializations
problems   (monthlyear) persons      represented         Perormance RaUng
Implementat  Development
on           Objectives
Progress
Identification/  10/1993     3    Sr. Energy Planner,
PreparaUon                        Sr. Energy Spedalist,    S             S
Financial Analyst
Appraisal      05/1994       3     Sr. Energy Planner,
Sr. Energy Specialist.   S            S
Financial Analyst
05/1995       3    Sr. Energy Planner,      S             S
Sr. Energy Specialist,
Financial Analyst
Supervision    11/1995       2    Sr. Energy Specialist,   S             S
Sr. Energy Planner
05/1996       3    Sr. Energy Planner,      S             S
06/1996            Sr. Energy Specialist,
12/1996            Financial Analyst
06/1997       3    Sr. Enbergy Planner,     S             S
11/1997            Sr. Energy Specialist,
Financial Analyst
11/1998       3    Sr. Energy Planner,      S             S
04/1998            Sr. Energy Specialist,
Financial Analyst
02/1999       3    Sr. Energy Planner,       S            S
Sr. Energy Specialist.
Financial Analyst
Completon      10/2000       2    Sr. Energy Planner        S            S
(2x)
1     Consultant
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Govt. of Malai/Min. Energy & DNEF
Other Partners: Netherlands (Cofinancier)
FOUOWLON OPERATIONS
Operatfon                                         Credit no.       Amount            Board date
(US$ million)
Household Energy and Universal Access Project (FY03)



25                                Annex B
Annex B. Borrower Comments
MINISTERE DES MINES, DE L'ENERGIE          REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
ET DE L'EAU                           UN PEUPLE - UN BUT - UNE FOI
DIRECTION NATIONALE DE L'ENERGIE
UNITE DE PILOTAGE DE LA STRATEGIE
ENERGIE DOMESTIQUE
Observations sur le rapport d'6valuation r6trospective de la phase I de la
Strat6gie Energie Domestique effectu6e en octobre 2002 par le D6partement
de I'Evaluation de la Banque Mondiale
L'examen du rapport d'evaluation retrospective de la phase I de la Strategie Energie
Domestique appelle de notre part les commentaires et observations ci-apres:
D'une maniere. generale, nous estimons que l'evaluation n'a pas bte menee de
maniere approfondie; ce qui a conduit le plus souvent a des assertions qu'un
examen minutieux aurait pu eviter.
Une des difficultes rencontrees pendant ['6valuation est la barriere linguistique qui
n'a pas contribue a une meilleure comprehension des actions menees par l'equipe
du projet: un examen des differents documents techniques aurait pu eclairer
davantage l'equipe d'evaluation qui s'est basee essentiellement sur le rapport
d'achevement du projet qui a dure 05 ans et qui ne peut etre qu'un resum6 et ne
peut cerner tous les aspects, certains details essentiels pouvant etre occultes.
En outre, 1'evaluation cite des documents non produit par le projet, en particulier
l'equipe de l'evaluation s'est appropriee le rapport a Evaluation finale de la Strategie
d'energie domestique-phase transitoire )> de Mr Paul Kerkhof, rapport controverse et
largement critique par la partie malienne qui n'a pas partage ses opinions, et qui ne
concerne que la periode transitoire (anvier 2001- juin 2002).
De maniere specifique, nos observations et commentaires sont les suivants:
A- Des resultats et de l'Efficacit6 (volet demande)
L'evaluation note que les Resultats marainalement atteints et l'Efficacit6 est iuaqe
marainale. Cette affirmation est AtayAe par les arguments ci-apres: (i) l'introduction
des FA n'a pas permis la reduction des emissions de Co2; (ii) la r6duction des
emissions de Co2 devrait etre faite par les rechauds a kerosene dont l'introduction
n'a pas ete un succes; (iii) le projet aurait encourager la consommation du charbon
de bois par les campagnes de promotion des foumeaux a charbon; (iv) la duree de
vie des FA est estimee a deux ans et on ne sait pas si les FA diffuses ont contribue a
remplacer les anciens foyers diffuses par d'autres programmes et enfin (v) le
programme de l'amelioration de la production charbonniere aurait encourager les
charbonnier a produire beaucoup plus de charbon; (vi) la participation accrue du
prive aux activites energie domestique serait difficilement imputable au projet.



26                               Annex B
Par rapport aux arguments cites ci-dessus, nos commentaires sont les suivants:
1. Un examen plus approfondi aurait pu demontre que I' explosion de la
consommation de charbon de bois n'est pas le fait du projet; ce
phenomene s'est instaI6 dans les villes (notamment 3 Bamako) avant
l'avenement du projet . L'une des reussite du projet a ete de mettre en
evidence l'existence du phbnomene et les raisons objectives qui le sous
tendent. Aussi, afin de contenir le phbnomene, le projet a t il propose des
solutions techniques qui sont: (i) le remplacement des fourneaux traditionnels
par des fourneaux ameliorbs plus economes en charbon pour les memes
utilisations; (ii) I'amelioration de la production charbonniere par une
augmentation de rendement des meules traditionnelles et une formation des
charbonniers; et (iii) la promotion des briquettes combustibles. 11 est
indeniable que les fourneaux ameliorbs economisent beaucoup plus de
charbon que les fourneaux traditionnels et pour les memes quantites de bois
les meules ameliorees produisent beaucoup plus de charbon. Le projet n'a
pas encouragb les producteurs de charbon a produire beaucoup plus, c'est la
demande des consommateurs qui en est le principal moteur.
2. La durbe de vie des foyers ambliorbs est estimbe a deux ans par la mission
d'bvaluation. Ceci est une affirmation qui ne repose sur aucun fondement . Ce
chiffre a ete avance depuis les annees 80 et aucune v6rification reelle ne la
confirmbe. La rbalitb est que l'616ment du foyers ambliorb qui se dbteriore le
plus vite est la grille (chambre de combustion); c'est bLiment est simplement
remplace par les forgerons en cas de deterioration pour quelques centaines
de F.CFA et le foyers continue d'etre utilisb pour de longues periodes encore
jusqu'au remplacement de la grille.
3. Les foyers diffuses par le projet sont soit mixtes (a bois- et charbon de bois),
soit a charbon uniquement. Ainsi tous les consommateurs (pauvres ou riches)
peuvent les acheter. Une partie des foyers diffuses par le projet a certes pu
servir au remplacement d'anciens equipements diffuses par d'autres
programmes. Cependant, il faut noter d'une part qu'aucun autre programme
de diffusion n'etait en cours en meme temps que le projet, et d'autre part un
regard sur les zones couvertes par le projet permet de constater que plusieurs
zones n'avaient jamais fait l'objet d'aucune d'action de diffusion de foyers
.ambliores. Le projet a permis la formation de plus de 800 producteurs (dans
15 villes du pays); leur production ne saurait se limiter au simple
remplacement des foyers dbteriorbs. Un examen des resultats des
programmes ant6rieurs de diffusion des foyers aurait permis de se faire une
idee sur la diffusion des foyers par le projet.
4. Par rapport aux economies reelles de combustibles occasionnees par les
foyers ameliores et la reduction des emissions de C02 des chiffres existent
au niveau du projet. Des enquetes consommations ont etb conduites et les
resultats sont disponibles. Le projet a pu ainsi mettre en evidence les
economies reelles que les menages(urbains et ruraux) realisent en termes de
combustibles et d'argent, les benefices que realisent les producteurs de
foyers, etc. Aussi, est- il surprenant de constater que la mission d'bvaluation
nie l'existence de ces donnees. La mission d'evaluation peut contester les
chiffres mais elle ne peut pas affirmer qu'ils n'existent pas.



27                                 Annex B
5. La diffusion des rechauds a kerosene a effectivement rencontre beaucoup de
problemes dont: (i) la difficulte d'avoir un r6chaud performant; (ii) le
rencherissement du taux du dollar car les rechauds sont importes-; (iii) le
rencherissement du coOt du kerosene. Cependant, vers la fin du projet un
rechaud performant a et6 identifib et importe et sa diffusion etait en cours lors
de l'evaluation. Le projet avait un objectif chiffrb de 20 000 unites et il en
diffuse environ 10 000. Le rencherissement du dollar et l'augmentation du prix
du kerosene (160 Fcfa/l au debut contre plus de 400 Fcfa/l vers la fin du
projet) ont effectivement affecte la diffusion des r6chauds. Mais cette situation
ne saurait etre imputee au projet qui n'a aucune comp6tence dans ces
domaines. 11 lui etait impossible de prevoir cette situation. Par ailleurs, il n'a
jamais e  dit que les objectifs de reduction des emissions de C02 du projet
seront atteints uniquement par les rechauds a kerosene, mais par l'ensemble
des equipements qui seront diffuses. A l1'vidence, 20 000 rechauds a
kerosene ne peuvent pas atteindre ces objectifs.
6. Le secteur prive (formel et informel) a et largement implique aux activites du
projet. En fait, toutes les realisations physiques du projet ont ete executees
par le prive. Du c8t6 de la demande toutes les actions de diffusion, de
fabrication, d'importation, de vente, d'entretien, de sensibilisation -
information - animation ont et realisees par le secteur prive (artisans -
forgeron, commercants -import - export, Ong, Gie, professionnels de la
communication, etc). Cela est mis en evidence dans les differents documents
du projet. En plus la mission d'6valuation de la Banque a rencontre
pratiquement les representants de tous ces operateurs.
B- Des resultats et de I'Efficacite (volet offre)
1- L'application de la l6gislation forestiere a Wt6 arbitraire (en Page 2):
11 faut plut6t dire que l'application de la reglementation n'etait pas totale, car le
service charge d'assurer le contr6le forestier ne disposait pas d'assez d'agents et de
moyens pour assurer le contr6le efficace de l'exploitation.
2- Elaboration de 200 plans d'amenagement sur une pr6vision de 260 ( en
Page 8, point 3.4):
Le retard de demarrage des activites du projet a serieusement joue sur le
recrutement de I'assistance technique pour elaborer les schemas directeurs
d'approvisionnement et la definition d'une methodologie de creation des marches
ruraux de bois-energie, qui sont necessaires pour la mise en place d'un plan
d'amenagement villageois.
Par ailleurs, les plans d'amenagement sont elabores pour les massifs forestiers
viables qui peuvent faire l'objet d'exploitation pour un minimum de 5 ans.
3- Augmentation de la production du charbon de bols (en page 10, point 3.8):
La consommation de charbon a augmente effectivement, mais dans le cadre de la
Strategie Energie Domestique la Cellule a introduit des methodes ameliorees de



28                               Annex B
carbonisation qui permettent d'augmenter la production ( meule traditionnelle produit
7 kg de bois pour produire 1 kg de charbon tandis que les meules ambliorees
vulgarisees par le projet produisent 2,5 kg a 3 kg de charbon pour la meme quantite
de bois) donc un avantage certain pour r6duire l'abattage du bois.
4- Le document de monsieur Foley fait ressortir que les femmes sont grandes
perdantes de marches (en page 12, point 3.11 ):
Une telle affirmation n'est pas acceptable par nous, d'autant plus que les activites de
la carbonisation(petite meule) sont generalement menees par les femmes et une
etude a 6t6 faite pour apprecier le r6le des femmes dans le fonctionnement des
marches ruraux de bois.
Cette etude fait ressortir que tous les petits besoins des villageois sont satisfaits par
la vente du bois de chauffe et du charbon de bois.
5- La rentabilit6 6conomique faible (en page 13, point 3.14):
En parlant de rentabilite economique faible, nous pensons qu'il faut relativiser ce
propos. L'enquate n'a certainement pas cible les SRG dont la rentabilite 6conomique
est certaine, notamment la rbalisation d'infrastructures communautaires a travers la
construction et equipement de salles de classes, le recrutement et paiement des
salaires des enseignants, I'electrification des lieux publics et centre de sante de
village, I'epargne villageoise, les banques de cereales, etc...
I



