Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22473
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28304)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.6 MILLION (US$2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT
07/17/2001
AFTEG
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2001)
Currency Unit = CFAF
FCFA 100 = US$ 0.13
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 760
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP                Executing Agency for Public Works
(Agence d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Interet Public)
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CED                   Household Energy Cell (Cellule Energie Domestique)
CCL                   Woodfuels Cell (Cellule des Combustibles Ligneux)
CFD                   Caisse Fran9aise de Developpement
CSER                  Center for Solar Energy Research
DGIS                  Dutch General Directorate for Development Cooperation
EDM                   Electricit6 du Mali
ESMAP                 Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FAC                   Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (France)
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GTZ                   German Organization for Technical Cooperation
IEC                   Information, Education and Communication
MMEH                  Ministry of Mines, Energy and Hydraulics
MRD                   Ministry of Rural Development
NDSA                  National Departnent for Social Affairs
NEHD                  National Energy and Hydraulics Department
NEAP                  National Environmental Action Program
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
NPPD                  National Plan to Prevent Desertification
NWFD                  National Waterways and Forests Departnent
PIRL                  Project to Inventory Wood Resources in Mali
RM                    Rural Market
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SEL                   Solar Energy Laboratory
SED                   Strategie Energie Domestique
SOE                   Statement of Expenditures
SEP                   Special Energy Program
UNFM                  Mali National Women's Union (Union des Femmes Maliennes)
UPS                   Project Coordination Unit (Unite de Pilotage de la Strategie)
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    David Craig
Sector Manager/Director:    Ananda Covindassamy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Willem Floor



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      6
6. Sustainability                                                                          7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        9
9. Partner Comments                                                                       10
10. Additional Information                                                               10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      16
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         17
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     18
Annex 8. Implementation Unit Completion Report                                            19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00 1682                                      Project Name: MALI HOUSEHOLD ENERGY
PROJECT
Team Leader: Willem M. Floor                              TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: July 18, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: MALI HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT                  LIC/TFNumber. TF-28304
CountryIDepartment: MALI                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/15/92                                 Effective:  12/31/95          10/27/95
Appraisal:  05/08/95                                  MTR:  12/01/97              12/01/97
Approval:  06/22/95                                Closing:  12/31/99            12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF MALI/MIN ENERGY & DNEF
Other Partners:  Netherlands (Cofinancier)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Willem Floor
Country Manager:     David Craig                                Nadjib Sefta
Sector Manager:      Ananda Covindassamy                        Magaye Gaye
Team Leader at ICR:   Willem Floor
ICR Primary Author:   Willem Floor
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=EEghly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Two types of project objectives were identified in the original SAR; (a) long-term development
objectives, and (b) specific project objectives.
(a)Long-term development objectives: of the project included reduction of C02 emissions,
abatement of forest resources degradation, increased private sector participation in management of



household energy, and the promotion of the rational use of household energy resources.
The specific objectives of the project were as follows: (i) create an enabling regulatory and policy
environment for project implementation; and (ii) provide technical assistance and training to peasants,
charcoal makers, producers and sellers of stoves and urban consumers to efficiently harvest and carbonize
fuelwood, to manage the natural forest in a sustainable manner, and to effectively market and use improved
kilns, biomass and kerosene stoves.
The basic principle underpinning this project was that the Government would establish a conducive
policy environment, but would leave commercial decisions to the private sector.
Assessment of Objectives:
The project objectives were sound, appropriate and in line with the country assistance strategy and
IDA sector policy. Experience from the IDA-financed Forestry I and II Projects suggests that structural,
institutional, and organizational changes needed to be adopted before engaging in other forest management
projects in Mali. The project was designed taking into account lessons leamed from these two projects as
well as from the household energy project in Niger, through the enactment of policy reforms related to
forest resource pricing and fiscal policies, the reorganization of the forestry service, and a pro-active policy
to promote local participation in the integrated management of forestry resources.
The project's objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report
no. 13746-MLI) reviewed by the Board in January 1995, the completed Bank's CESP for Mali, and the
National Envirom-nental Action Program (NEAP), all having similar goals. In fact, the project focus on,
and integrate in its approach, three important elements of the CAS, environment, private sector involvement
and popular participation, to bring about increased opportunity and poverty alleviation in rural areas.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The project focused on the rational use of woodfuel resources for household energy
markets and consisted of two main components covering demand for and supply of woodfuel for
household energy.
On the demand side, the focus of the project was to enhance the role of the private sector in
marketing a variety of fuel-efficient end-use appliances. To assist poor consumers to overcome
market barriers to these energy products, subsidies were made available on a temporary basis and
in a transparent manner. Reducing the market price of improved kerosene and charcoal stoves,
both with little market penetration in Mali, was thought to help overcome consumer perception
that the new product was beyond its reach and help expand the market, which in turn would
reduce the cost of energy to the consumer.
On the supply side, the main focus was to mobilize popular participation in the management of
the natural forest, and restructure the fuelwood trade so that woodfuel traders would increasingly
get their supplies from managed, rather than natural forests.
- 2 -



The project components are summarized below.
Woodfuel Demand. This component consisted of identification, design and assistance to
implementing a marketing program for the sale of improved biomass and kerosene stoves. 17,000
kerosene stoves were to be imported from a number of sources by commercial businessmen, who
would in turn resell them. 65,000 charcoal and 60,000 fuelwood stoves, and a combined version,
were to be manufactured locally through a training program for blacksmiths with a focus on using
locally available materials.
Woodfuel Supply. This component consisted of: (i) design of four woodfuel supply
master plans for the main towns and determination of the maximum annual sustainable wood
supply in the catchment areas of the towns concerned; (ii) preparation and assistance to
implement village forest management plans in about 260 villages in five administrative regions of
Mali; and (iii) identification, design and implementation of an improved carbonization program for
400 full-time charcoalers and assistance to interested local private entrepreneurs to carbonize and
compress cotton stalks to replace charcoal. An active participation of impacted communities was
considered essential to promote the objectives of this component.
Energy Sector Institution Building. Provision of institutional support to: (i) central and
local governmrents to help with project management; (ii) the private sector with the production
and sale of improved stoves; and (iii) assist rural communities in implementing their forest
management plans. This capacity was created via the project sponsored Household Energy Unit
with the intent to raise awareness, implement the project within Direction Nationale de l'Energie
and to use a decentralized approach via NGOs to implement the project. Additional regulatory
and institutional support was sought within government to ensure full and active participation of
both the government and affected groups.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Program. This included two parts:
(i) IEC and systematic consumer consultation, executed by private sector operators, focused on
the importance of the rational use of energy through the proper use of improved stoves; and (ii)
launching of a comprehensive training and client consultation program on forest management
tailored  to  village  communities  and  the  creation  of  rural  woodfuel  markets.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry for the project was satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with
the CAS. The Government was committed to the objectives of poverty reduction which were to
be achieved through investing in infrastructure and better management of natural resources.
- 3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement with respect to the project specific objectives was satisfactory.
All of the long-term development objectives have been addressed. First, prior to the start of the
project the Government put in place a new regulatory framework (laws and their implementation
arrangements) that aims to restructure the fuelwood sector around the main urban centers so that
the supply of fuelwood is managed rationally and the environment, protected. Further, to
encourage conservation of woodfuel by promoting improved stoves and substitute fuels and by
establishing economic pricing of fuelwood. As to the abatement of forest resources degradation
woodfuel supply master plans for the five target towns were developed. These plans indicate,
amongst other things, where and how much wood can be harvested, based on village forest
management plans by rural communities, of which 200 were developed. The wood harvested
under environmentally sustainable conditions were marketed through 200 rural markets, which
were managed by the village communities themselves.
The global objective of reducing C02 emissions was achieved through the introduction,
sale and use of 150,000 improved woodfuel stoves and 85,000 improved charcoal stoves.
Through the sale and use of improved stoves the rational use of household energy resources was
promoted, which benefitted rural and urban areas. At the same time, the project addressed in this
way the issue of poverty alleviation and gender concerns successfully. Woodcutters harvested
wood in a sustainable manner and managed the forest so as to ensure regeneration. Charcoalers
converted wood more efficiently into charcoal, while urban households used less fuelwood and
charcoal. Because 65% of the actors involved in the woodfuel chain are women they also have
benefited from the creation of the rural markets and the improved charcoaling techniques,
resulting in increased income. In urban areas, women benefited directly through reduced energy
expenditures, leaving more income to meet other households needs. This does not take into
account the savings that were achieved through the better management of the natural forest,
because these were only coming measurable towards the end of the project.
However, despite the project's success, project implementation has experienced several
delays that resulted in the project's extension by one year. During the mid-term review, the
implementing agency noted the following principal reasons: (a) insufficient counterpart funds at
project start; (b) delayed adoption of the fuelwood taxation decree; (c) delay in recruiting the
technical assistance; and (d) the newly constructed project building was taken by the GoM
without reason. It was vacated in early 2000. Despite these delays, the project achieved its
objectives.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Wood fuel Demand. This component was executed satisfactorily, and attained its goals
which included identification, design and assistance to implement a marketing program for the sale
of improved biomass and kerosene stoves. In total, over 100,000 units, well over the originally
target 60,000, were sold directly through the initiatives sponsored by the project. In addition,
many charcoal and fuelwood stoves were constructed by other non project stove-artisans though
the number is unknown. The success of this component can be attributed to a number of factors
-4 -



including marketing, supporting initiatives and money making opportunities for artisans, and
recognition by the population that the use of the stoves would save money by reducing woodfuel
consumption.
The success of improved stoves varied amongst models. The improved charcoal and
fuelwood stoves, manufactured in Mali by local blacksmiths, were very successful in attaining a
relatively high market penetration in the target areas. However, the 10,500 imported kerosene
stoves, imported mainly from China, Niger and India, were not a commercial success because of
the rising US$-CFAF exchange rate and consequently their price put them out of the reach of
most consumers. This unexpected price hike was compounded by the increase in the price of
petroleum products. Some of these imported kerosene stoves also experienced some technical
problems (e.g. explosions, fire, etc.).
Woodfuel Supply. This component was executed statisfactorily. The major achievements
under this component consisted of the following: (1) design and effective completion of woodfuel
supply master plans for the towns of Bamako, Mopti, Koutiala, Segou and Kayes; the results
were used to determine the most appropriate household energy strategy for each town; (2)
effective preparation and assistance for the implementation of village forest management plans in
200 villages (with an area of between 1,000 to 2,000 ha, 320,000 ha in total). There was also the
creation of an equivalent number of rural markets (RM) via sub-contracts with private
businessmen for the sale of sustainably harvested woodfuel products from these villages.
Although this figure is below the initial target of 260 villages, the sub-component was very
successful in achieving the objective of improved forest management and promoting sustainable
practices; instead of 720,000 ha only 320,000 ha were brought under management. This was
mostly due to the fact that only 200 instead of 260 rural markets were created, partly because the
design team had assumed an average size of a village forest of some 2,600 ha. In reality this
figure was only 1,500 ha. Also, 200,000 tons of dead wood were supposed to have been
harvested, which the project did not do. However, most of that wood has been cut spontaneously
by villagers during the project's lifetime as a result of the project's IEC program and the creation
of rural markets in the area concerned and (3) identification, design and implementation of an
improved carbonization program for existing full-time charcoalers was completed. This program
led to the conversion of more than 300 charcoalers to the improved Casamance kiln and
installation of at least 100 kiln chimneys. In addition, tests of traditional kiln techniques used by
informnal part-time female charcoalers were conducted. The Casamance kiln success can be
attributed to the 20% higher charcoal yield, reduced production time, and improved product
quality.
However, a crucial part of this component, a control system for woodfuel trade, did not
function well. The new system called for decentralization of control to the local level but was met
with some resistance from central authorities. Thus, the control system for regulating the cutting,
transporting and monitoring of harvested woodfuel did not function as well as planned.
Energy Sector Institution Building. The project created or strenghtened capacity in the
energy sector in the following areas: (i) project management, by central and local governments
institutions; (ii) design and implementation of forest management plans, by the rural communities;
- 5-



and (iii) production and marketting of improved stoves, by the local private sector operators.
Capacity was also created in the central unit responsible for overall implementation of the
Household Energy Strategy (SED), with the objectives of continuing raising awareness at the
national and local levels, disseminating the knowledge and the experience in particular within the
Direction Nationale de l'Energie and of further decentralizing implementation via NGOs and
private sector operators. In addition additional regulatory and institutional support was provided
to governnent units to ensure full and continous participation of both the government and
affected groups.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Program. This component was
very successful and was crucial to the success achieved in the demand and supply components.
This comprehensive program, including a systematic consumer consultation and various activities
and radio advertisements in local languages, was successfully executed by local NGOs and private
sector operators. These activities raised awareness and educated users to the importance of
demand and supply initiatives and how active participation in these areas would have a direct
monetary impact on a household income and standard of living.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because of the innovative and learning character of the project it was decided during the
appraisal decision meeting that no Economic Rate of Return would be calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Because of the innovative and learning character of the project it was decided during the
appraisal decision meeting that no Financial Rate of Return would be calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project helped establish a specific small, lean, and effective project coodination unit
(UPS) responsible for assisting rural populations improve the management of energy resources by
controlled harvesting and better carbonization and in promoting more efficiency stoves in urban
areas. The project demonstrated to the GoM that private sector development and management of
these activities is feasible. The project also created a critical mass of technical expertise that is
now able to assist in the process of improved management of energy resources.
The UPS trained relevant staff in areas such as GIS, word processing, cartography,
carrying out of surveys, project monitoring and execution, procurement, and communication. The
project's staff also showed ability in training private sector operators in the creation of rural
markets, developing management plans, commercialization of improved stoves (including the
setting up of an after-sales service) as well as in monitoring their execution of these activities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was new and innovative in Mali. It was expected to encounter technical and
institutional obstacles though it was assumed that the structural policy and institutional reforms
introduced by the Government would help reduce these obstacles. The major risks were: (a)
- 6 -



complex coordination and implementation arrangements; (b) uncertainty whether consumers
would accept and buy the new kerosene and woodfuel stoves; (c) uncertainty whether the villages
would participate in the management of the natural forest and the viability of decentralizing the
responsibility for forestry management to the local population.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors that the borrower could have controlled included speed of project implementation
and the formation of a national coordination committee to coordinate the implementation of all
activities in the household energy sector. The delays encountered here were not significant but
could have been addressed in a more expeditious manner.
A second factor that could have been better managed was the devolution of control to the
local level.  This process of decentralization was not well accepted by the Government,
particularly by the Forestry Department which is responsible for fuelwood control and tax
collection. This has resulted in significant implementation problems at the onset of the project.
In addition, the process of decentralization received a wide attention, but there was no clear vision
of how to implement such a process and what the goals were. In theory, decentralization and
natural resource management fit well, but the current forestry laws only recognize municipality
level rural markets (RMs) but not those at the village level, where most RMs are.
5.2b Factors not Controllable by the Borrower
Factors beyond the control of the borrower was the importation and sale of kerosene
stoves by private businessmen. These stoves were not a commercial success because the rising
US$-CFAF exchange rate and their increased price put them out of the reach of most consumers.
This unexpected price hike was compounded by the increase in the price of petroleum products.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency had problems in getting the project off the ground due to
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, in particular procurement rules. Training in procurement and
discussions with the Bank team helped the implementing agency overcome these problems and
thereafter it performed in a highly satisfactory manner.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
The cost estimate for the project was $5 million of which GEF contributed $2,5 million
and the Government of the Netherlands the other $2,5 million. Overall financing was just enough.
The project closed with a zero balance, but could have disbursed more, if additional funds would
have been available. However, excellent project and financial planning by the executive agency
made for a smooth ending of the project. The project was extended by one year so as to allow to
make up for the slow start during the first year due to lengthy procurement procedures and other
start-up problems.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating.
The project's sustainability is likely. However given the newness of the concepts
introduced by the project and the infant nature of village woodfuels markets in Mali, additional
time is necessary to frmly establish natural resource management and household fuel practices
-7 -



within the targeted communities and to ensure the commercial viability of the woodfuel markets
and trade.
The project results are considered to be sustainable because of the existence of a
transparent and pro-active regulatory framework for the sector. This regulatory framework has
led to (i) transfer of responsibility for control and management of the natural forests from the
State to the village communities and the creation of rural woodfuel (RM) markets; (ii) creation of
a transparent regulatory framework that penalizes the purchase of wood and charcoal that was
obtained from unmanaged forest and cut in an inefficient manner, while promoting the
management of natural village forests; (iii) gradual reduction of the Government's role and
increased role of the private sector in the management of the household energy sector; and (iv)
reduced energy expenditures by households through the purchase and proper use of improved
biomass and kerosene stoves.
The communication, education and information effort should however be continued to
support the introduction of improved stoves and most importantly to complete the transfer of
authority and management of fuelwood supply zones to the local level and the inclusion of the
majority of villages in these zones.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Because of the Government's policy and its regulatory framework that has been put in
place it is expected in the rural areas where village management plans have been developed and
rural markets created that the villagers (woodcutter, charcoalers, managers of rural markets) will
continue to operate as they have done during the project. The same holds for the producers of
improved stoves. In fact, the sale of these improved stoves has continued after the project's
closure by the private sector operators trained by the project and more than 15,000 have been
sold since the project closure. The control system has remained in place, and although it is in need
of restructuring it will continue its normal functions. Finally, all operational units which are part of
the regular line ministries which have participated in the project will continue to operate as before.
This is moreover all due to the fact that the approach taken in the project was a programmatic one
nationwide rather than a project based one.
With respect to future operations in the energy sector in Mali, the Government plans to
support initiatives to improve forestry management through increasing local control and building
capacity to develop woodfuel supply masterplans for key towns. Considerable opportunities exist
to build upon the project's achievements to expand the prograrn to increase penetration in urban,
peri-urban and rural areas. These opportunities also exist in a wide range of technical options such
as solar energy.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA performance in project identification and design was satisfactory. The project was
the first of its kind in Mali and the implementation arrangements worked well.
7.2 Supervision:
-8 -



Project supervision was satisfactory and the Bank was responsive throughout the
supervision phase of the project. Three main problems were identified by Bank supervision
missions: (i) insufficient enforcement of woodfuels management and taxation; (ii) revision of
Decree 95-422/P-RM goveming taxation rates for charcoal and fuelwood (originally scheduled to
be enacted in December 1996). This decree was issued in October 1999 to support efforts to
enforce control of woodfuel entering the cities of Bamnako, Segou, Mopti, Koutiala and Niono.
Eighteen forestry contracts were issued to private operators. This resulted in an increase in
revenue of 60% although the total collection of 120 million CFAF in 1998 was well below a total
potential collection of 1 billion CFAF; and (iii) confiscation by the Government of the building
that was to house the executing agency. The building was returned six months before the closing
date of the project. Of these three problems, only the enforcement continue to be unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. There were several minor issues of concern
raised by the implementing agency staff including complex and cumbersome Bank procedures,
more training for project staff and increased communication between Bank management in
Washington and project directors in-country. None of these issues was seen as a major obstacle
to the successful completion of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the project identification and design is satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower performance on project implementation was satisfactory but some problems
were encountered including the failure to pass a decree on taxation of charcoal and fuelwood and
failure to return promotion the project implementation agency's building. These problems found a
satisfactory resolution but delayed project implementation.
As part of this ICR, a detailed audit was undertaken and concluded there was no
procurement problem and that all goods, works and services procured under this project were in
compliance with IDA procurement procedures.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performed in a highly satisfactory manner with effectiveness,
technical expertise and sound financial control. Monitoring, evaluation and reporting of the
project's implementation were very sound as was the completion of technical studies.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Government performance was satisfactory even though the project at its inception suffered
from implementation delays. As irnplementation progressed, the delays encountered were much
lower.
8. Lessons Learned
For the project to succeed it requires government support embodied in new, transparent
regulations, review and approval of forest management plans, and provision of technical
assistance. The government thus has to create an enabling environment, but commercial decisions
-9-



are to be left to private economic agents in the woodfuel market chain.
Ownership of the project by the villagers is also essential for the project's success. This is
achieved by involving local participants in most features of the project. Villagers are encouraged
to take an active role in the sustained use of forested areas by being given exclusive user rights
over the land.
The project also has to provide basic training in management and accounting, and villagers
should be left with the responsibility for settling any disputes concerning ownership rights to the
forested areas. Villagers want to form rural markets only when it is clear that it is beneficial for
them to do so.
The project also requires appropriate level of taxes and fines and institutional capabilities
for the enforcement of tax collection and penalties for avoidance. Further, that the collection of
taxes should be subcontracted to the private sector and be done at the village level. Finally, that
distortions and perverse incentives that may have crepts into the fiscal system should be removed
immediately. Experience has shown that it is possible to have an effective woodfuel control
system, if the system is managed by others than regular government agency, and that this should
be left to the private sector.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See attached report -Annex 8 -
(b) Cofinanciers:
The Netherlands carried an evaluation of the project in 1999 and concluded that the project was
successful.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Most of the project implementation was carried out by NGO's and by Private Sector.
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 10-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator           |                      Project in SAR (1999)         Actual/Latest
Abated C02 ton/year                                    30,000                     130,000
Reduced Firewood consumtion/tons/year                  30,000                     400,000
Output Indicator:
Indicator                                  Project in SAR (1999)         Actual/Latest
Sale of Improved Stoves:
Wood                              160,000                    150,000
Charcoal                          68,000                     100,000
Kerosene                          17,000                      10,500
Rural Markets                                          260 (1)                     200
Managed Forest (ha)                                   720,000                   320,000 (2)
Dead wood Recovery                         200,000 tons                  Page 5 para 2 wood supply
Improved Carbonization                            400 efficient kilns        100 efficient kilns (4)
(kilns Installed)
1. Based on assumed average village forest size of 2, 600 ha (page 5).
2. Reflects real average village forest size of 1.50 ha (page 5).
3. Dead wood was harvested, but not in the context of project implementation (page 5).
4. Reflects the fact that in Mali some kilns are shared by charcoalers.
-1 1-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  -   ;Actual/Latslt  Percentage of
Project Cost ByiComponent                            US$ m   6illion  US$ million   ___A ________
A. Fuelwood Master Plans                              0.88            0.95            108
B. Village Forest Management Plans                    2.00            2.36            118
C. Carbonization Program                              1.10            0.18             16
D. Kerosene and Charcoal Stoves Program               1.00            1.22            122
E. Institutional Support and Monitoring Program       1.44            0.61            103
F. Skills Development and Public Awareness            1.30            0.55             47
G. T.A., Consultancies, and Studies                   1.77            2.36            133
Total Baseline Cost                                   9.49            8.23
Price Contingencies                                  1.01
Total Project Costs             10.50            8.23
Total Financing Required              10.50           8.23
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Pr ourment Meithod
Expenditue Category        CB iNC         B                         N.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.30          0.00          0.80         1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.60           1.20         0.20          2.80         4.80
(0.60)        (1.20)       (0.20)        (0.00)       (2.00)
3. Services                  0.10          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.10
(0. 10 )      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0. 1 0)
4. Consultants               0.00          0.00          1.80          0.80         2.60
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.80)        (0.00)       (1.80)
5. Operating Cost            0.00          0.00          1.30          0.60         1.90
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.30)        (0.00)       (1.30)
Total                      0.70          1.50         3.30          5.00         10.50
(0.70)       (1.20)        (3.30)        (0.00)       (5.20)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                Pro  0        l l:            N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other
1. Works                     0.00          0.22          0.00         0.00         0.22
(0.00)       (0. 1 9)     (0.00)        (0.00)       (0. 1 9)
2. Goods                      0.40         0.36          0.00         0.00         0.76
(0.40)       (0.32)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.72)
3. Services                   0.00         0.48          0.00         0.00         0.48
(0.00)       (0.43)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.43)
- 12 -



4. Consultants                   1.44            0.08           0.00           0.80          2.32
(1.44)         (0.08)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.52)
5. Operating Cost                0.00            0.00           2.99           1.40          4.39
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.62)         (0.00)         (2.62)
Total                         1.84            1.14           2.99           2.20          8.17
(1.84)         (1.02)         (2.62)         (0.00)         (5.48)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate       -       -      -
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Scheme for Fuelwood       0.31      0.00       0.57      0.85       0.00       0.00    274.2   0.0    0.0
Supply
Forestry Village Planing  1.00       0.00      1.00      0.68       0.00       1.60     68.0    0.0   160.0
Program of Carbonization  0.84       0.00      0.26       0.16      0.00       0.00     19.0   0.0    0.0
Diffusion of Plate warmer  0.66      0.00      0.34       1.08      0.00       0.00    163.6   0.0    0.0
Coal program and Fiber
Program
Institutional Support and  0.30     0.70       1.14      0.62       0.47       0.80    206.7  67.1   70.2
Follow up Program
Awareness Campaign and    1.30       0.00      0.00       0.55      0.00       0.00     42.3    0.0    0.0
Training
Technical Assistance      0.52       0.00      1.25       1.56      0.00       0.00    300.0   0.0    0.0
counsel and Project Studies
- 13-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return not calculated (see Para 4.3 and Para 4.4)
- 14 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No, of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1993                3   Sr. Energy Planner, Sr. Energy      S             S
Specialist, Financial Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1994                   3   Sr. Energy Planner, Sr.             S              S
Energy Specialist, Financial
Analyst
May 1995                    3   Sr. Energy Planner, Sr. Energy      S             S
Specialist, Financial Analyst
Supervision
November 1995                2   Sr. Energy Specialist,Sr.           S             S
Energy Planner
May1996, June                3   Sr. Energy Planner, Sr. Energy     S              S
1996, December                   Specialist, Financial Analyst
June 1997, Nov               3   Sr. Energy Planner, Sr. Energy      S             S
1997                             Specialist, Financial Analyst
November 1998,               3   Sr. Energy Planner, Sr. Energy      S             S
April 1998                       Specialist, Financial Analyst
Feb 1999,                    3   Sr. Energy Planner, Sr. Energy      S             S
Specialist, Financial Analyst
ICR
October 200                 2    Sr. Energy Planner (2x)            S              S
I    Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               78.0                       292.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    27.8                        73.9
Supervision                             135.5                       584.1
ICR                                       8.0                        35.3
Total                                   249.3                       985.3
- 15-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Ncgligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OSector Policies                          OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
O Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development               O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
? Gender                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specif)            OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 16 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfwtory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS *S Ou O HU
• Supervision                                        OHS OS  OLU  OHU
Z Overall                                            O HS Os OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
3 Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
• Government implementation performance              0 IfS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
• Overall                                            OHS * S O U O HU
-17-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Back to office reports and aide memoires
2. Project Status Reports (PSRs)
3. Mid-term review report
- 18-



Additional Annex 8. [Annex Title]
Implementation Completion Report
- 19 -



REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
MINISTERE DES MINES, DE L'ENERGIE ET DE L'EAU
MINISTERE DE L'EQUIPEMENT, L'AMENAGEMENT
DU TERRITOIRE, DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT ET DE L'URBANISME
DIRECTION NATIONALE DE L'ENERGIE
DIRECTION NATIONALE DE LA CONSERVATION DE LA NATURE
STRATEGIE ENERGIE DOMESTIQUE
20



1.1.1. Introduction:
Le present document fait une synthese du rapport d'achevement des activites du Projet
pendant toute sa duree  de vie, c'est A dire du ler janvier 1996 au 31 ddcembre 2000
conformement aux differents Programmes d'Activites adoptes par le Comite Directeur et les
bailleurs de fonds.
1.1.2. Etat d'execution physique
Conformement aux differents programmes d'activites, les actions ci-apres ont ete
executees:
a) Rapport d'avancement:
Depuis le demarrage du Projet SED, en tout 10 (dix) rapports d'avancement semestriel ont e
elabores. Le present constitue le demier, c'est A dire le rapport d'achevement de la phasel de la
SED.
b) Arrete d'exoneration des marches prevus dans le cadre de l'execution du Projet:
C'est l'arrete n° 96-0483MFC-SG du 27 mars 1996 fixant le regime fiscal et douanier
applicable aux marches du projet ; tous les marches, conventions et contrats de l'UPS ont e
executes hors douanes et hors taxes dans le cadre dudit arrfte.
c) Audit des comotes de l'UPS:
Les comptes de l'UPS pour les exercices 1996, 1997, 1998 ,1999 et 2000 ont dtd certifies sans
reserves par le Bureau SARECI/PANNEL KERR FORSTER. L' audit de cl6ture est en cours
d'exdcution.
d) Comite National de Coordination du Secteur de I'Energie Domesticlue (COSED):
La creation d'un tel comite avait e  prevue par l'Accord de Don GEF n° 28 304 MLI du
24juillet 1995.          Le Decret de creation n° 96-047/PM -RM a ete signe le 14 fevrier
1996.
L'Arrete n° 96/1086/MMEH-SG fixant la liste nominative des membres du COSED a ete
signe le 10juillet 1996 par le Ministre des Mines, de l'Energie et de l'Hydraulique.
Le COSED a tenu en tout six sessions statutaires au cours desquelles, il a procede A une
analyse approfondie de la situation et a formule des recommandations qui ont l'objet de rapports
soumis au Gouvernement.
Le 31 mai 2000, le Conseil des Ministres a examine le rapport du COSED et sur la base
des recommandations, a donne son accord pour la poursuite du projet dans une seconde phase.
e) Assistance Technique Globale:
L'approche A la fois energetique et forestiere que le Gouvernement du Mali a adoptde
pour la gestion efficace du secteur de l'Energie Domestique, impose la mise en place d'une
structure et des modes de fonctionnement assurant l'interdependance, la coordination et la
pluridisciplinarite des actions entreprises. La mise en ceuvre des actions a necessite un certain
nombre de compdtences specifiques qui ont e  couvertes par des services de consultants fournis
dans le cadre d'un contrat global d'assistance technique(ATG).
L'objectif de I'ATG etait triple:
- assurer la formation (< sur le tas >> des cadres de la CED et de la CCL,
-  apporter, par des expertises court terme diversifiees et de haut niveau, un appui
methodologique A la conception et la planification des activites des deux volets de la
21



strategie,
-  apporter, par un conseiller technique A long terme place aupres du chef de la CCL, un
appui operationnel A 1'execution des activitds du volet Offre.
A la suite d'un appel d'offres international, le groupement de bureaux SEED/CIRAD-
FORETS/BTG/AFRITEC/BEAGGES a dte recrut6 pour un cofit total de 830.545.700 F.CFA
correspondant A 85 hommes-mois, dont 55 d'expertise court terme .
Le contrat a ete finalisd le 30 Janvier 1997 et le groupement a pris fonction a partir de
Mars 1997.
Le rapport final est attendu et une evaluation de l'action de I'ATG est prevue courant
2001 pendant la phase transitoire.
D'ores et ddjA, on peut affirmer que l'apport de l'ATG a dtd d'une grande utilite pour le projet qui
a etd appuye dans les domaines le plus souvent nouveaux pour le personnel: le concept de marche
rural de bois-energie (MR), la methodologie de creation des MR; I'elaboration des Schemas
Directeurs d'Approvisionnement en combustibles ligneux (SDA) avec utilisation de logiciel
spdciaux ( Map-Info; ACCES), du Systeme d'Information Gdographique(SIG), interpretation des
donnees satellites, etc.
L'ATG a developpe une strategie de communication en milieu rural et urbain avec elaboration de
support visuel (affiches, brochures, tri-folios, livrets). L'ATG a aide a la formation aux techniques
de carbonisation: amelioration de fabrication de charbon  de bois (meule casamancaise);
fabrication de briquettes combustibles A partir de tiges de cotonnier(agglomerateurs).
Les expertises apportdes par I'ATG sont varides et diverses:
Volet demande : Le marketing, le developpement des foyers ameliores et rechauds, le briquetage
et la carbonisation de residus agricoles.
Volet offre : Le ddveloppement des marchds ruraux, la gestion des ressources ligneuses, le
contr6le du flux des combustibles,  l'exploitation forestiere (amdnagement, inventaire), la
cartographie, l'impact environnemental, la communication et l'animation rurales, la carbonisation.
Coordination: le developpement institutionnel, le suivi et l'evaluation, la communication.
1) Strategie de communication
la realisation d'actions publicitaires: La campagne de communication a ddmarrd en octobre
1998 et a consistd a l'installation de panneaux publicitaires sur les equipements d'dnergie
domestique sur certaines arteres de la ville de la capitale et certaines villes interieures: Sikasso,
Sdgou, Mopti, Gao, Tombouctou et Gao.
La campagne de presse:
Un film documentaire sur la SED a ete elabore a etd diffuse deux fois sur les antennes de la
teldvision nationale. En outre, des interviews de certaines personnalitds ont ete publiees dans la
presse ecrite (publique et privee) ; il s'agit de:
- de l'Ambassadeur des Pays Bas au Mali,
- du Directeur National de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie,
- du Directeur National de la Conservation de la Nature,
- d'un reprdsentant de la mission de decentralisation,
- du monde rural( une charbonniere), et
- d'un scientifique de l'IPR-ISFRA de Katibougou.
En dehors de ces deux types actions publicitaires, it a dte edite et distribue les documents de <<
prestige >) ci-apres:
- une brochure de prdsentation de la SED,
- une plaquette : Panel des consommateurs d'energie domestique de la ville de Bamako,
22



- une plaquette : Sch6ma Directeur d'Approvisionnement de Bamako en bois
6nergie(SDAB).
Ces documents tires en deux mille exemplaires chacun, ont fait l'objet d'une large diffusion en fin
de l'annee 1999 et au cours l'annee 2000.
Un bulletin semestriel d'information sur I'energie domestique a ete regulierement publie( 08
numeros en tout).
g) Construction des sieges Dour les deux Cellules:
Deux batiments ont e  construits pour abriter les deux volets du projet.
Cependant pour le volet Offre le Gouvemement avait requisitionne le batiment pour
abriter la Commission Nationale Electorale Independante (CENI), pendant trois ans. Ce n'est
qu'en fdvrier 2000 que le batiment a ete retrocede au projet.
h) ImDortation et commercialisation des rechauds a n6trole et fabrication de fourneaux A
charbon:
La premiere Convention signee avec la Societe SENAGRI a e  finalisee le 21 Janvier
1997 pour l'importation et la distribution de 2 000 rechauds.
Un avenant a ladite Convention a ete finalise en aout 1997 et a permis d'importer 4500 autres
rechauds.
En outre, dans un souci d'elargissement de la gamme de produits d'energie domestique un autre
dossier portant sur 2000 rechauds A petrole A meches a etd publie le 29 septembre 1997. Ces
rechauds A meches sont d'origine indonesienne, mais fabriques au Niger ou ils ont ete vulgarises A
partir de 1993 par le Volet Demande du Projet Energie II.
Une quatrieme convention portant sur 2000 autres rechauds A meches a e  signee en
novembre 1999 avec Mr Souleymane DRAME, commercant Import-Export, qui a mis plus 1500
rechauds sur les marches de Bamako, Sikasso et Mopti A partir de septembre 2000.
Quant aux fourneaux A charbon ameliores, suite A une serie d'Appel d'Offres publies A
partir de Fevrier 1997, des contrats pour la foumiture de services d'assistance pour la subvention
partielle et temporaire de ces foumeaux ont e  signds avec des Organisations(ONG) pour la ville
de Bamako et 14 autres localites du pays.
i) Atelier sur le Secteur de I'EnerLie Domestique:
Un atelier sur le Secteur de l'Energie Domestique s'est tenu les 29-30 et 31 Mai 1996 a
Bamako. L'objet de cet atelier dtait d'une part d'informer tous les intervenants du secteur sur les
nouvelles mesures d'ordre institutionnel, legislatif et reglementaire devant desormais s'appliquer
dans le secteur, d'autre part d'echanger d'experiences A travers des discussions sur des sujets
techniques. Les discussions ont ete axees sur le rapport d'analyse du Secteur de l'Energie
Domestique elabore par l'UPS avec l'appui des deux cellules.
A cet atelier ont pris part les representants des services techniques des Departements concernes,
les membres du COSED, la Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie du Mali, I'Association des
Consommateurs du Mali (ASCOMA) et les delegations du Burkina Faso, de la Gambie, du Niger
et du Senegal.
j) Selection d'artisans pour la fabrication de chemin6es Dour meules A charbon:
Suite A un appel d'offres restreint lance en Mai 1997, il a ete retenu un artisan de la place
A qui il a etd confie la confection des cheminees pour meules A charbon. L'echantillon foumi par
I'artisan attributaire a ete soumis A un test technique au niveau de la Cellule Combustibles
23



Ligneux ; ce test qui a ete concluant, a permis de signer le contrat avec ledit artisan et de lancer la
production des cheminees. Une centaine de cheminees ont ete produites et mise a la disposition de
charbonniers dans le cadre de la modernisation du secteur charbonnier.
k) Adoption du texte portant suspension des droits de douanes et taxes sur les equipements
d'enermie domestipue:
En vue de contribuer A l'abaissement du prix d'acquisition des equipements d'dnergie
domestique en plus de la subvention temporaire et partielle accordee par le fonds GEF, le
Gouvernement a accepte de renoncer au droits de douanes et taxes sur ces equipements pendant
une periode de cinq(5) ans.
A cet effet, un arrete a 6te signd par le Ministre des Finances sous le n ° 98-001/MF - SG
en date du 6 janvier 1998.
Cet arrete a permis A la societe SENAGRI d'importer hors taxes, hors douanes des
equipements pour la fabrication de briquettes combustibles et les pieces de rechange pour
rechauds A petrole pour une valeur d'environ 15 millions de F.CFA.
l) Mise en place des fonds de contrepartie:
Au 31 decembre 2000, 1'apport direct du Gouvernement au financement du Projet pendant
la periode 1996-2000 s'eleve A 250.923.234 F.CFA.(ceci n'inclut les salaires des fonctionnaires
affectes au Projet).
m) Acquisition de vehicules et motos
En attendant la mise en place des fonds de financement du projet, I'UPS a procede le 23
Mai 1996 A la reception de deux vehicules tout terrain acquis a partir du credit 1998 MLI qui a
servi de fonds de preparation du projet(PPF).
Les deux vehicules ont ete mis a la disposition des cellules pour l'execution des activites de
terrain.
L'essentiel des equipements roulants (13 vehicules et 15 motos) a ete acquis A travers un
marche attribue et notifie le 17 decembre 1996 suite A un appel d'offres international, A la Societe
Fran9aise de Commerce Exterieur (SFCE) qui n' a livrd lesdits equipements que le 12 juin 1997
pour les 13 vehicules et le 13 aofit 1997 pour les 15 motos.
Suite a un Appel d'Offres National lance le 15 janvier 1998, deux marches ont ete attribues
en septembre 1998; I'un A N'gary Transport pour le lot 1(3vehicules) et l'autre A Imacy pour le lot
2 (28 motos). Les lettres de marche ont e  signees et notifiees aux attributaires en debut janvier
1999. Les trois vehicules ont dte livres le 15 fevrier et les vingt huit motos le 23 mars 1999.
n) Coordination des Activites de la CED et CCL
Cette activitd a ete une action permanente de '1UPS et a consiste en la tenue de reunions
d'information et de concertation avec les Chefs de Cellules.
- Tenue de reunions avec les Chefs de cellules:
Des seances de travail ont dte tenues mensuellement en plus des contacts informels pour
discuter de problemes ponctuels. Au cours de ces rencontres, le Coordinateur et les deux Chefs de
Cellules discutent de l'etat d'avancement des activites du Projet, des difficultes et des solutions
adequates A apporter.
24



Par ailleurs, ils ont dte en contact permanent pour:
- la reception des differentes missions des experts court terme de I'assistance technique;
- la preparation et la participation A I'atelier sur le secteur de l'Energie Domestique (29, 30
et 31 Mai 1996);
- la reception des missions de supervision de la Banque Mondiale;
- la participation aux rencontres annuelles de concertation du projet avec les partenaires
financiers (bailleurs de fonds) et techniques du secteur de l'energie domestique ( 20 Novembre
1996, 5 ddcembre 1997, 4 novembre 1998, 9 decembre 1999).
- la participation aux diffdrentes sessions du COSED (17 mai 1996, 30 decembre 1996, 25
juillet 1997, 10 juin 1998, 7 juillet 1999 et 31 juillet 2000).
- la participation le 10 ddcembre 1997 A la reunion d'evaluation A mi-parcours du projet.
- la participation aux ateliers thdmatiques dans le cadre de la preparation de la seconde
phase du projet( du 23 fevier au 29 mars 2000).
D'une maniere succincte les activites de terrain des deux Cellules depuis le demarrage du Projet
ont consiste a:
Pour la Cellule Energie Domestique:
- la conduite de tests techniques et d'acceptabilite sur differents types d'equipement
d'energie domestique, A la suite desquels le choix a ete porte sur 2 types de r6chauds A petrole et 4
modeles de fourneaux A charbon ameliores;
- le choix portd sur SENAGRI, suite A un appel d'offres, pour l'importation et la
commercialisation des rechauds a petrole A pression. Une Convention a ete signee en Janvier 1997
avec SENAGRI et a permis la mise sur le marchd Bamakois de 2000 rechauds. La Cellule a
apportd un appui technique A SENAGRI pour la mise en place d'un reseau de distribution fiable:
identification de 7 points de vente dans la ville de Bamako, formation des revendeurs et initiation
de rdparateurs d'engins A deux roues pour assurer un service apres vente de proximitd. Par ailleurs,
a travers un avenant A la Convention , 4500 autres rechauds ont ete mis A la disposition des
populations de Bamako et d'autres villes du pays(Segou, Sikasso, Mopti, Gao, Koulikoro, Kayes,
Tombouctou, Koutiala).
- la finalisation du processus de signature de deux marches relatifs A l'importation de 4466
rechauds A petrole. Toutefois, la mise en oeuvre des deux marches s'est heurtee A de difficultds: a)
pour les 2466 rechauds A petrole A pression, I'attributaire du marche a notifie son incapacit6
d'executer le marche qui a ete finalement resilie en novembre 1998; b) en ce concerne les 2000
rdchauds A meches, I'attributaire ayant rencontre des difficultes A fournir la garantie de bonne
exdcution a demande A en etre dispense. Cependant les equipements n'ont e  mis a la
consommation qu'A partir de fin septembre 1999. 11 faut noter que ces deux marches ont ete
notifies depuis le 12 juin 1998.
Sur la base de la nouvelle convention signee en novembre 1999, Mr DRAME a mis A
partir de septembre 2000 sur les marches de Bamako, Sikasso et Mopti environ 1500 autres
rechauds A petrole A meches.
- la fabrication locale des rdchauds A petrole,
- le suivi de l'execution des contrats de services avec des organisations/ONG pour
1Pencadrement de la fabrication de foumeaux A charbon ameliores retenus et la mise en oeuvre de
la subvention liee A la vulgarisation de ces equipements A Bamako, Segou, Sikasso, Mopti, Gao,
Kayes et Tombouctou. Les actions de diffusion se sont poursuivies dans toutes lesdites villes . Les
contrats avec les ONG arrivds A terme, ont ete renouveles. A travers ces contrats plus de 100.000
25



unites ont ete diffusees sur un objectif previsionnel global de 68.000, soit un taux de realisation de
147%. Le coait des prestations des ONG s'est dleve A environ 136 millions de F.CFA. Le montant
de la subvention accordde A ces fourneaux s'eleve A 29.225.000 F.CFA.
Au cours de l'annee 1999 en plus des villes de Bamako, Kayes, Segou, Sikasso, Mopti, Gao et
Tombouctou, les actions de diffusions se sont etendues aux villes de Kati, Koulikoro, Niono, Bla,
Koutiala, Bandiagara et Dire.
- la reception et l'installation de 20 rafraichisseurs par dvaporation pour les tests
techniques et d'acceptabilite. Les localites suivantes ont dtd concernees: Bamako(8 unites),
deux(2) a Sdgou, Koutiala, Mopti et Gao; le suivi technique (instrumentation et mesure) est
termine ; le rapport technique a ete depose en mars 1998. Un atelier d'information operateurs
prives sur les evaporateurs a ete tenu.
-  la publication des huit(08) premiers numeros du Bulletin d'Information sur l'Energie
Domestique en rapport avec la Cellule Combustibles Ligneux.
-  la formation  en rapport avec le Projet Foyers Ameliores DNAS/GTZ  de
forgerons/artisans A Gao et Tombouctou dans le cadre de la fabrication de fourneaux A
charbon ameliores. La Cellule et le PFA ont procede A PNvaluation de leur plan
d'actions commun lancd en 1996 et ont elabore ceux des annees suivantes.
-  l'organisation de ventes promotionnelles de fourneaux mixtes A Gao et Tombouctou.
-  l'identification  et l'appui A linstallation  de deux  producteurs de briquettes
combustibles.
-  une enquete legere aupres de 100 menages ayant achete le rdchaud pour evaluer les
conditions d'utilisation de ces nouveaux equipements.
-  les essais de carbonisation des tiges de cotonniers.
-  des tests d'acceptabilite des briquettes combustibles aupres de 50 familles A Bamako.
-  le suivi de la production par l'op&rateur prive de plus de 10 tonnes de briquettes
combustibles.
- 1'execution de deux etudes portant d'une part sur les filieres d'approvisionnement en
matiere premiere pour la fabrication des fourneaux ameliores et d'autre part l'impact
social de la diffusion des produits d'energie populaire dans toutes les villes couvertes
par la SED.
-  le suivi de la confection par l'agence de communication, des panneaux publicitaires,
affiches et film documentaire.
Quelques retombees de la SED volet demande:
I Consommateurs
Fourneaux vendus, unites                           99 828
Economie par foumeau/jour, Fcfa                  6 488 820
conomies /an pour les consommateurs, FCFA    2 368 419 300
Participantes aux seances d'animation              15 034
2 Artisans forgerons
Chiffres d'affaires vente de foumeaux         249 570 000
Achat matiere premiere (ffits)                  99 828 o0a
Fonds de roulement                               8 800 500
Bdnefice net                                   149 742 000
3 Ongs
Prestations (titre des contrats), Fcfa         137 884 96
26



4 Emplois cr6Js
Artisans                                             561
Apprentis artisans                                   30
Reparateurs richaud+revendeurs                        8
ONGS                                                  50
Impacts environnementaux (97-98-99-2000)
Fourneaux etfoyers
Bois economise, tones                      I     325 504
r02 evite, tones                                2 649 87t
Rtchauds a p6trole
Bois substitue, tones                             79 114
C02 dvit6, tones                                 107 33
Quantitds de briquettes de rdsidus agricoles
Briquettes, kg                             |      38 080
p3ches et bfichettes, tones                           54
Actions m&diatiques
Spots et emissions radiophoniques                  1 752
Seances d'animation                                  227
TV (Spots' microprogrammes, doc., annonces,           81
etc..)
Activites au niveau des etablissements scolaires  2_
Foires et expositions                      _
Panneaux publicitaires                                3
Affiches                                           5 50C
Pour la Cellule Combustibles Ligneux:
-  le suivi et l'aboutissement des textes d'application de la Loi N°95-003 portant
organisation de                l'exploitation, du transport et du commerce du bois.
-  l'valuation du contr6le A l'entree de la ville de Bamako.
-  la mise en place d'un systeme de contr6le plus efficace aux entrdes de la ville de
Bamako.
-  des enquetes sur les professionnels du bois au niveau des villes de Kayes, Bamako,
Segou, Koutiala, Niono et Mopti.
-  le calibrage des moyens de transport de bois-energie au niveau des bassins
d'approvisionnement de Kayes, Segou, Koutiala, Niono et Mopti.
-  des enquetes diagnostics pour la ddtermination de la taille des sacs de charbon au
niveau des villes ci-dessus mentionnees.
-  l'informatisation du controle A l'entree de Bamako.
-  la revision du decret n0422-PRM du 16 Decembre 1995, fixant les taux et la repartition
des taxes per,ues A l'occasion de 1'exploitation du bois, ce decret porte presentement le
n°402/P-RM du 17 decembre 1998.
- l'organisation et la tenue de l'atelier technique sur la methodologie de creation de
marchds ruraux de bois, les plans d'Amenagement et de Gestion Simplifies.
-  la collecte d'information au niveau de certains modules du Systeme d'Information et
27



d'Evaluation Permanent (SIEP).
- la mise en place de 155 marchds ruraux de bois A travers 18 operateurs prives recrut6s
A cet effet: ainsi, au Mali on denombre un total de 242 marchds ruraux crees dont:
la CCL(155 MR); I'UGF(23 MR) et le BIT/Kita ( 64 MR) - pour une surface totale
mise sous quota de 526.240 ha. Les prestations des operateurs prives se sont chiffrees
A environ 169 millions de F.CFA.
Les marchds ruraux effectivement creds au compte de la CCL concement essentiellement le bassin
d'approvisionnement de Bamako. Pour les autres villes, le processus est en cours et sera finalise en
2001.
-      la publication des huit(08) numeros  du Bulletin d'Information sur l'Energie
Domestique en rapport avec               la Cellule Energie Domestique .
- le suivi de la construction du siege de la Cellule Combustibles Ligneux.
-   la conduite de 13 tests de carbonisation sur les meules ameliorees et traditionnelles.
-  la formation de 260 charbonniers et la vulgarisation de 103 cheminees pour meules
ameliorees.
- la finalisation et la validation des schdmas directeurs d'approvisionnement en bois-
dnergie de Bamako, Segou, Mopti, Koutiala et Niono.
-   la preparation et la mise en oeuvre de la campagne nationale d'information en rapport
avec les agences de communication (Wara Communication et ANC), recrutees A cet
effet;
- la finalisation de l'inventaire et de la cartographie de la zone du bois mort en 5Sme
region;
o) Reunions du Comite Directeur de l'UPS:
L'UPS a organisd les 19 Janvier et 02 Aouit 1996 les deux r6unions statutaires de son Comite
Directeur qui a examine le Rapport d'Activites 1995 de l'UPS, CED et CCL et a adopte les
Programmes d'Activites desdites structures pour les deux semestres de l'annee 1996 et les Budgets
y afferents.
Le meme exercice a ete effectue au titre de l'annee 1997 au cours de sdances tenues les 16 janvier
et 23 juillet 1997.
Pour l'annee 1998, le Comitd Directeur a tenu ses reunions le 19 fevrier et le 29juillet 1998.
Concemant I'annee 1999, les deux sessions se sont tenues respectivement le 02 avril et le 27
octobre 1999.
Pour l'annee 2000, les deux sessions se sont tenues respectivement le 21 fevrier et le 28 juillet
2000.
p) Autres activites
Le Coordinateur de l'UPS a participe du 20 Janvier au 9 Fevrier 1996 A Dakar au
seminaire sur la Passation des Marches de Travaux organisd par la Banque mondiale a travers
l'Institut Superieur Africain pour le Developpement des Entreprises (ISADE).Cette formation lui a
permis de mailtriser les Procedures de la Banque Mondiale en matiere de passation non seulement
de marches de travaux, mais egalement de foumitures, de recrutement de Consultants; toutes
choses qui ont constitue l'ossature du programme d'activites de la premiere annde du projet. Ont
egalement benefici6 de cette formation A differentes sessions:
- au niveau duprojet: les deux chefs de cellules, l'Assistant Administratif de la CCL.
- au niveau du Ministere de tutelle: Le Directeur, I'Adjoint , un Agent de la DAF du MME et le
Directeur National Adjoint de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie.
Par ailleurs, le Coordinateur et les Chefs de cellules ont participe A differents moments A
28



des seminaires/rencontres sous-regionaux, regionaux et internationaux, sur le bois-energie,
l'energie et l'environnement.
Dans le cadre du programme de la Banque Mondiale, << Revue des Politiques, Strategies et
Programmes du Secteur des Energies Traditionnelles(RPTES) »), le Coordinateur de l'UPS,
membre du Groupe Africain d'Appui(GAA), cree dans le cadre de la phase pilote de ladite etude,
et les chefs de cellules ont participe aux differentes rencontres organisees dans la sous-region.
Dans le cadre d'echange d'experiences, le projet a requ la visite de plusieurs delegations venues tour a tour
de: Gambie, Senegal, Guinde(Conakry), Burkina Faso, Niger, Mauritanie, Tchad, Nigeria, Madagascar.
1.1.3 DIFFICULTES RENCONTREES, PERSPECTIVES ET CONCLUSIONS:
a) Difficultes:
Les diff6rents problemes ayant freine le deroulement des activites du Projet peuvent etre
regroupees en deux categories:
* Difficultds d'ordre administratif
On peut citer:
- Retard dans la mise en place des fonds apres la mise en vigueur des accords de dons;
- Absence de fonds de contrepartie pendant les deux premieres anndes et insuffisance et
retard dans la mise a disposition des fonds alloues par la suite;
- Requisition d'un des batiments du projet par la Gouvernement pendant trois ans;
- Suspension des decaissements par les bailleurs de fonds pendant 9 mois, consdquence
directe des deux difficultes pr6c6dentes;
- La longueur des procedures de passation des marches( 9 mois au minimum);
- Retard de deux ans dans la revision du decret portant fixation et repartition des taxes
percues a l'occasion de 1'exploitation du bois-dnergie;
* Difficultes d'ordre technique
On note:
- les resultats souvent infructueux de certains des appels d'offres pour l' importation et la
distribution des rechauds a pdtrole a cause de la complexitd des dossiers d'appel
d'offres;
- divergence des points de vue du projet et de la Banque Mondiale en ce qui conceme le
taux de la subvention a appliquer aux 6quipements d'energie domestique;
- les lenteurs accusdes dans l'execution des contrats signes avec les operateurs privds
(creation des march6s ruraux, mise en ceuvre de la strategie de communication,
livraison des dquipements);
- l'insuffisance du contr6le forestier malgre les moyens humains, techniques et
financiers mobilises.
Ces difficultes ont eu pour consequence, la non atteinte de certains objectifs (nombre de rechauds
a pdtrole, non fonctionnalitd de certains marchds ruraux etc).
Aujourd'hui la quasi totalite de ces problemes ont trouvd une solution heureuse.
Le seul probleme technique qui persiste est celui lid au controle forestier.
En effet, malgre l'important appui apporte par le projet, la qualitd du contr6le n'est toujours pas
satisfaisante.
b) Perspectives.
Un certains nombre de mesures dont les resultats n'ont pas encore ete dvalues, ont dte entreprises.
Parmi ces mesures on peut citer:
- La restructuration effectude au sein des services forestiers, regroupant en une seule
direction les services de controle forestier et d'amenagement.
- La mise a la disposition de la DNCN par la CCL de 18 agents contractuels en octobre
29



1999 pour le renforcement du contr6le pour la ville de Bamako. Ces agents affectes
aux postes forestiers, dquipds par le projet, ont ete remuner6s en fonction des rdsultats
obtenus.
- la DNCN a procddd A un reddploiement du personnel et a instaure un systeme de
rotation des agents au niveau des postes de contr6le de Bamako.
La d6cision prise par le Gouvemement du Mali de concert avec les partenaires financiers de
poursuivre le projet dans une seconde phase permettra de venir A bout des difficultes rencontrees.
Cette phase verra l'dlargissement des activites du Projet A I'dlectrification rurale decentralisde
(ERD).
A la requete adressde en octobre 2000 par le Gouvemement du Mali, le Gouvernement des Pays-
Bas, A travers sa lettre n° 766/bam du 20 novembre 2000, a confirmd son interet pour la
consolidation des acquis, la levee des insuffisances de la phase 1 et la preparation de la seconde
phase. Cet appui du Gouvemement Neerlandais consistera A financer un plan d'actions sur une
periode de 15 mois A partir de janvier 2001.
Evaluation de l'execution du projet
L'evaluation A mi-parcours du projet, effectuee en d6cembre 1997, a fait des recommandations
visant A rattraper le retard accuse dans la mise en oeuvre du projet. II s'agit essentiellement de la
prolongation d'un an, c'est a dire l'extension de la duree du projet au 31 ddcembre 2000 et
l'ajustement du calendrier d'execution des activites.
La presente evaluation s'effectue sur la base du nouveau calendrier et des nouveaux objectifs
assignes.
A. Au niveau du Volet Demande:
Comme le montre le tableau n°l ci-dessous les objectifs en matiere de diffusion de
rechauds n'ont pas dte atteints pour I'annee 1998. Les raisons ont ete donndes plus haut
(resiliation du marche des 2466 rechauds a pression et retard accusd par le foumisseur pour
exdcuter celui des 2000 rechauds a meches). Toutefois, grAce A une revision des procddures en
matiere de passation des marches et du principe de la subvention, la situation s'est nettement
amelioree les annees suivantes avec des taux de rdalisation de 29% et 44% respectivement en
1999 et 2000 ; ce qui donne un taux global de 59 %.
Concernant les fourneaux A charbon les resultats obtenus sont tres satisfaisants ( les objectifs ont
6te largement depasses tout le long du projet): le taux global d'execution est de 147 % des
objectifs globaux.
II faut noter qu'un important travail prdparatoire est A la base des resultats atteints: il s'agit des
travaux de recherche et de tests techniques et d'acceptabilitd sur les dquipements vulgarises, des
actions d'information, de formation et de sensibilisation des artisans et des consommateurs par
rapport aux nouveaux dquipements.
La vulgarisation de pres de 100.000 fourneaux a eu des retombees positives dont on peut retenir:
- Une dconomie de plus de 2 milliards de F.CFA en 2000 pour les consommateurs.
- Un b6nefice net de pres 150 millions de F.CFA et un
chiffre d'affaires de pres de 250 millions de F.CFA pour les
artisans forgerons.
- La crdation d'emploi pour 565 artisans, 300 apprentis artisans.
- Une rdmuneration de pres de 138 millions de F.CFA au titre de prestations de service par les
ONG.
- Pres de 2.8 millions de tonnes de C02 dvite en 1997-1999-2000 par l'utilisation des rdchauds et
fourneaux.
30



Tableau n°l: Calendrier previsionnel d'execution des activites
1997         1998         1999          2000       Total
Pre  real.  Prev.  real.  Prev.  Real.  Pr6v.  Rd    Prev.  Real.
V.
Rechaud  650  6500  4000    0    7000  2000  3500  1547   17.00  10.04
sa         0                                                     0       7
p 6trole   _ _ __       _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __                     _ _   _ _ _
Taux %      100%          0%            29%           44%           59%
Fournea  18   20.00  10.00  1388  18.50  43.43  21.00  22.51  68.00  99.82
ux a     500            0      0     0      6      0      2       0      8
charbon_
Taux %      108%         139%          235%          107%          147%
B- Au niveau du Volet Offre.
Comme il ressort du tableau n°2, les resultats atteints en matiere des schemas directeurs
d'approvisionnement en bois energie des villes, sont tres satisfaisants : seul le SDA de Kayes, n'a
pas pu etre finalisd et adopte, et pour raison le manque de financement.
Les resultats attendus en matiere de creation de marches ruraux de bois sont egalement
satisfaisants, meme si certains marches ruraux ne sont pas totalement fonctionnels.
Cependant, des insuffisances ont ete notees:
-      la composante recuperation du bois-mort n'a pas pu etre mise en wuvre, faute de
financement;
- le point faible demeure le controle forestier qui malgre tous les moyens injectes reste
insuffisant.
Tableau 2:
2000          Total
1998                 1999
Prev.     Real. Prev.  Real Prev. Real. Prev. Rdal
Elaboration des Bko, Segou,  Bko,  Kia,   Mop           Nion  Bko,  Bko
SDA                Kla,      Segou  Mopti, ti          o      Segou, Segou
Des      villes    Niono            Niono  Kla                Mopti, Mopti
couvertes          Mopti                                      Niono Kla
Par la SED                                                     Kla  Niono
__________  ___ _    ___ Kayes _
Taux %                 40%            67%                         83%
31



Marches ruraux                                         .
de bois             75         37   140    75   75    78       245   190
Taux %                 49%                54%        104%         78%
Forets
amenagees.(ha)    225.000    60.000 420.00 -    90.00         735.00 320.4
0            0             0    14
Taux %                 27%               -         -               44%
Cheminees
vulgarisees         185        50    175    50 40              400   100
Taux %                 27%            29%           0%            25%
Rdecuperation de   Etude de
bois           reactualisatio Realise  PM*        PM*          PM*
mort(tonnes)         n         e
Des donnes
Taux %               100%
c) Conclusions:
ll ressort des evaluations effectuees par le Gouvernement des pays Bas (en octobre 1999)
et la Banque Mondiale (en juin 2000) que l'exdcution du projet est satisfaisant . En outre, a l'issue
de la serie d'ateliers thdmatiques tenus du 23 fevrier au 29 mars 2000, 1'dquipe du projet avec
l'appui des differents intervenants du secteur, a etabli le bilan assez complet de la situation : les
acquis, les faiblesses et les perspectives.
Ainsi, on note que plusieurs realisations depassent les objectifs initialement fixes: le
nombre de foyers amdliords vulgarisds, le nombre de Schdmas Directeurs d'Approvisionnement,
le nombre des marches ruraux operationnels. (voir annexe 1).
Cependant, cet etat d'avancement n'assure pas encore la durabilite de l'ensemble de toutes
les activites , notamment l'application de la legislation sur le bois-energie s'est averee difficile et
le contr6le insuffisant.
En consdquence, nous recommandons que la seconde phase soit immediatement lancee en
vue de consolider les acquis et corriger les insuffisances relevees.
Bamako, janvier 2001
Le Coordinateur
IsmaIl 0. TOURE
32



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27028
MALI I                                                            K
HOUSEHOLD ENERGY                                                                         \
PROJECT                                                                                             Al GERI A
o     CERCLE CAPITALS                      j                                               K.
@     REGION CAPITALS
*      NATIONAL CAPITAL
CERCLE BOUNDARIES                     j     \
REGION BOUNDARIES
-- INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES                |       \,
.            \TOMBOUC. OU RFGIVN\                                   Kidc
o  50  1 00 150 200  250                                                                         Bu-
I     I          I                                               OM    
KILOMETERS                              I
J  ,~'  ~,  -,                               %TCPT!                       OUENTA RHROSn G O   / g
KAYES                                                       TENNK   M 4Der  J N o o i OP raI
, jofouIobC                     I                   t , ocin   JEN  O      o o                                          
~~~~~~~~                                                                                              1~~~~~~~~~~~ 
jKen,e  0       OU K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  BDUETZ
,<Xv~~         *X:                       '     0Y       otoo ?                                                      'Mn IO                     OLG  ER LA
KAY   ~~~~*                kAT   Cm      il                0      T
0j J1 1   -\l L A  %      K I  ¢           ':z'gA.',-) 7   OIQ N                    denominations and  ony                          I          R
SX+q soc. tssuit t0AJC3{                                    on  this maf  do  not               SAHRLOH   .     A  IGE
k.r.,                                             C,~~~~~mpy  o     eprto
%Iondtbo  KodiolO                         any judgment on the legal   F                            . 
0K,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
);                dJk-                      or anyofenodny trtorseen                         )      P1S ASORI
I !   COTE   D   IVO IRE                                                                                   A or   acceptance   of  such  'O N   o rG f AEBE A
The ~T  L  boundaries.  coSH
G    31 Pt      RrGi N                       denom;notions and  any~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY 99



