Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9298
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1882-EC)
JANUARY 22, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mnav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONTRALORIA              The Borrower's Central AdministraUive Control Office
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
TBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MOP                      Ministry of Public Works
PCR                      Project Completion Report
PROCURADORIA             The Borrower's Central Legal Control Office
'JCCV                    Rural Roads Coordination Unit
VOC                      Vechicle Operating Costs



FOR OMCI4L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DtfectorGmf&I
Opefaton [vakuatim
January 22, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ecuador Sixth Highway Project
(Loan 1882-EC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Ecuador Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1882-EC)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1882-EC)
Table of Contents
PREFACE . . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .  . . . . . .                           1. . . . . .
Project Identity: .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
Background  .1...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Design and Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Implementation .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Project Sustainability  .8...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    a
Bank Performance ......................... . 8
Borrower Performance ....................... .  9
Project Relationship  .1.0..  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   I0
Consulting Services ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Pro4ect Documentation and Data  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   11
PART II .-  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .   12
Part III. - STATISTICAL INFORMATION .......  ..  .                 ..  ..  ..  ..      .   13
Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Loan Disbursements   .......................                                     15
Project Implementation  .....................                                   .    15
Project Cost and Financing  .............                         .....      .   .    16
Project Results.   ......................                                        17
Status of Loan Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .   20
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ECUADOR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1882-EC)
Pk"FACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sixth Highway Project in
Ecuador for which Loan 1882-EC in the amount of US$55 million was approved on June 6,
1980. The loan was closed on June 30, 1988 three years behind schedule. An amount of
US$7,500,000 was cancelled on June 29, 1989, the same date the last disbursement was
made.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division of
Country Department IV of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. On June
15, 1990 the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II
by August 15, 1990. However, no reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR was based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
ECUADOR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1882-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The Sixth Highway Project shared with the preceding Fourth and Fifth Highway
Projects. Loans 1231-EC and 1429-EC, the same sector development objectives of upgrading
the transport system and correcting institutional deficiencies within a broad plan of
fostering economic growth and development of public investments (para. 2.01 of the PCR).
In particular, the project objectives were to develop the feeder system in Ecuador,
strengthen road maintenance capability of the main, and of the rural roads network.
institutionalize transport planning and coordination, and strengthen personnel training
in the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), and in the provinces (para. 3.01).
Implementation Experiesuce
2.       Implementation of the project was delay.ed from the beginning by MOP's inability
to follow the clear and well balanced implementation program agreed on during preparation
and confirmed at negotiations.   It was further hampered by:  (a) lack of sustained
Government commitment to the objectives of the project; (b) slow contracting and defective
execution of engineering; (c) cumbersome procurement procedures; (d) undue and
contradictory intervention of other government agencies; (e) frequent changes of executive
staff in MOP; (f) insufficient counterpart funding; and (g) rain-induced extensive floods
during two successive years. The combination of all these factors delayed execution of
the project by three years, brought about   changes in project scope, and prevented
attainment of most of the implementation targets.   By June 29, 1989, 14Z of the Loan
proceeds were cancelled (paras. 5.01 through 5.07).
Resuits
3.       The project wis not successful in wc,tting its objectives: (a) the development
of a rational feeder road system was not a-l-&ieved; (b) the strengthening of the road
maintenance capability for main roads as well as for feeder roads was achieved only
partially, with maintenance expenditures of the main network dropping to 5SS of agreed
targets; (c) institutionalization of transport planninpg and .oordination was not achieved;
and (d) the training program achieved only 312 of the agreed targets. The economic rate
of return of twelve sample rural roads was satisfactory, however, that of the maintenance
program could not be confirmed (paras. 6.01 and 6.02).
Sustainabilitv
4.       The limited level of benefits obtained throug'  ciftual construction of rural
roads under the project may be sustainable up in the future because of poor construction



- iii -
and lack of permanent arrangements to guarantee their proper maintenance. Sustainability
of the strengthening of MOP's physical capability to carry out maintenance programs is
impaired by insufficient financing and absence of the will to carry out the training
programs and institutional strengthening measures required. Whatever progress was made
under the project in the areas of rural road planning and transport planning and
coordination may be lost in the near future because of absence of strong organizations
to carry them through (para. 7.01).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.       The careful preparation of the project and the comprehensive set of covenants
agreed at negotiations were not sufficient to ensure satisfactory implemer-tation of the
project. In retrospect, during negotiations the Bank should not have waived its original
recommendation to create the Rural Road Coordination Unit at the directorate level,
endowed with the authority required to carry *,o; adequate coordination within the Ministry
and outside.   This decision later proved to be a main source of weakness in project
implementation.   During implementation tne Bank should have been willing to take the
remedial actions provided in the Loan Agreement. At the operational level we believe that
future investment projects in Ecuador should be designed in tranches, or particular
attention should be given to ensure the institutional strengthening required for its
implementation, including precise policy conditionality linked to the disbursement
suspension provisions (paras. 8.01 and 8.02).
6.       MOP's weakness during project implementation was caused maInly by: (a) lack of
sustained commitment of the Government to the objectives of the project; (b) discontinuity
of high and mid-level staff assignment; (c) chronic shortage of qualified personnel; (d)
reluctance of mid-level staff to assume administrative and technical responsibilities;
(e) cumbersome bidding and contracting procedures; (f) extreme delays in the processing
of payments to contractors and consultants; (g) poor performance of most contractors and
consultants; and (h) reluctance of the Central Bank to ensure expeditious flow of funds
deposited in the Special Account. To attain greater effectiveness in the implementation
of investment projects, the Government would have to ensure firm commitment to project
objectives and timely provision of funds, streamline its administrative procedures,
strengthen coordination between public agencies and free technical decisions from
political interference. In addition MOP would have to correct its ingrained weaknesses
described above by: (a) ensuring greater permanency of managerial and technical staff;
(b) upgrading the technical capacity of its staff through increased monetary incentives
and sustained comprehensive training programs; (c) fostering decision taking capacity of
mid level staff; (d) streamlining administrative procedures; and (e) fostering managerial
and technical development of contractors end consultants (paras. 9.01 and 9.02).



ECUADOR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1882-EC)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.0      Project Identity:
- Project Name:  Sixth Highway Project
- Loan Number:   1882-EC
- RVP Unit:      Latin American and the Caribbean Region
Country Department IV
- Country:       Ecuador
- Sector:        Transport
- Subsector:     Highways
2.0      BackRround
2.01     The Sixth. Highway Project shared with the preceding Fourth and Fifth Highway
Projects (Loans 1231-EC and 1429-EC), the same sector development objectives of upgrading
the transport system and correcting institutional deficiencies within a broad plan of
fostering economic growth and development of public investment. It emerged from a study
of rural roads development in the three southern provinces of Guayas, Los Rios, and El
Oro, carried out under the Fifth Highway Project.
2.02     The policy context of this project was to strengthen the Ministry of Public
Works (MOP) capacity to coordinate countrywide planning and implementation of rural roads
programs among more than 50 executing agencies (provincial and municipal councils.
regional development organizations and other ministries), to strengthen the capacity of
three pilot provinces to gradually take over full responsibility for their respective
rural road networks and to assist MOP and the provincial councils (PC) of these three
provinces in the execution of road maintenance programs.
2.03 Despite initial progress, the project failed in the long run to attain most of its
broader objectives. The rural roads coordination unit (UCCV) never was given sufficient
authority to fulfill its coordination role; on the contrary, the number of rural roads
implementing agencies and the extent of their independent actions, even within MOP,
increased during project implementation. The impact of the project on the consolidation
of the rural road system to improve economic development was far below expe-tations.



-2-
3.0      Proiect ObJectives and Description
3.01     Project Objectives.  The project objectives were to: (a) support the development
of  the  feeder  road  system  in  Ecuador  and  related  planning  capability  in  MOP;
(b) strengthen the road maintenance capability for main roads as well as for feeder roads:
(c) consolidate the achievements of the Fourth Highway Project in transport planning and
coordination; and (d) strengthen the capability of MOP and three coastal provinces through
training programs.
3.02     Project Components.  Specifically, the project consisted of:  (a) improvement
of 1,500 km of feeder roads including final engineering and supervision in three coastal
provinces, Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro; (b) estab_ishment of a Feeder Roads Coordination
Unit (UCCV) and supply of technical assistance; (c) prepraration of a countrywide feeder
roads program; (d) implementation of four-year (1981-1984) programs for maintenance of
the national networks and of rural roads in the three provinces, including technical
assistance, purchase of maintenance equipment, spares and workshop equipment, and
improv3ment of workshops and warehouses, (e) technical assistance for transport planning:
and (f) comprehensive training programs for MOP and provir.cial personnel.
4.0      Proj,ect Design and Organization
4.01     Conceptual  Foundation.    The  project  was  designed  as  an  institutional
strengthening and infrastructure executiot, project to be prepared and implemented by MOP
in close coordination -with the PCs and other rural rr;ais implementation agencies.
Moreover, the project was to consolidate efforts under the two previous projects, to
strengthen MOP's capacity in road maintenance and to unify overall Transport Planning
and Coordination under one single authority. Unfortunately, this conceptual foundation
was not understood and shared by some of the many high level officials who in frequent
succession occupied important positions in MOP and the Government. Therefore application
and follow-up of these fundamental concepts was sporadic and often inconsistent.
4.02     Innovative Aspects.   The rural  roads component of the project was  quite
innovative because it aimed at the establishment of coordinated planning and
implementation  of  rural  roads  investments,  along  with  a  gradual  transfer  of
responsibilities for well-organized actions in this subsector to the provincial
governments. The scope and scale of the project (selection of 3 pilot provinces out of
19, and continuation of MOP's institutional strengthening efforts initiated under the
two previous (and at that time ongoing) projects were adequate for the attainment of the
above indicated objectives. However, the deteriorating economic situation and political
climate of Ecuador in the course of project implementation seriously affected MOP's
capacity to carry out satisfactorily the full scope of the project.
4.03     Preparation of the Project.  The project was carefully prepared with the help
of the technical assistance under Loan 1429-EC. Extensive investigatior. of the project
area led to the selection of 1.500 km of priority rural roads and definition of the first
year program. A complete set of comprehensive manuals for selection, feasibility studies,
engineering, construction and maintenance of rural roads were approved by MOP and the
Bank. MOP contracted the engineering required for the first year program. and specific
agree-ents were reached on the timing of contracting the engineering and the execution
of the rural roads program, taking into account the limitations imposed by the short dry
period (July-December) when these activities could be carried out.    Moreover,  all



-3-
agencies involved in rural road development were thoroughly investigated, the complexity
of their interrelation flagged and approaches to overcome them designed. For instance,
prior agreement had been reached on the content of the participation agreements between
HOP and the three provincial councils. The equipment, staffing, training, and financial
needs for implementation of adequate maintenance programs of the national highway network
and of the secondary and rural network in the three project provinces were properly
dimensioned and agreed. Finally, the technical assistance programs in highway maintenance
and transport planning were designed to complete the tasks initiated under the Fourth
Highway Project,  Loan 1231-EC.   To assure these  interlocking arrangements,  a very
extensive set of covenants were agreed during negotiations. The timing of the project
was appropriate since the new government ':hs' took office during project preparation
included the sector development and project objectives in its own Government Program.
4.04     Roles and Responsibilities.  During project preparation, the Bank recommended
establishing the rural road coordination at the directorate level, directly under the
Dirrctor General of Public Works, to endow it with the authority required to carry out
adequate coordination within the Ministry and outside. Unfortunately, during negotiations
MOP insisted on downgrading the coordination unit to a much lower level, so that later
this unit was unable to perform any meaningful coordination.   The gradual transfer of
responsibilities for rural road planning and construction to the provincial councils was
never implemented. In addition, MOP was unable to carry out the equipment procurement
process within a reasonable time, and the later drastic reduction of the maintenance
budget, far below agreed targets, forfe,ted the execution of an acceptable maintenance
program of the main network. Most importantly, the Government never - ok decisive action
for the creation of a unified transport planning and coordination agency, which was a
requirement under the earlier Fourth Highway Project  (Loan 1231-EC).   The lack of
compliance with the above institutional concepts was the main reason for accumulated
delays and chronic weaknesses of project implementation.
4.05     Contribution to SuccesslFailure.  In retrospect, it can be stated that during
project preparation all aspects of project design and organization required for efficient
implementation had been identified and carefully firmed up during negotiations. It was
the MOP's inability to comply with the agreed principles and actions that prevented the
project from being carried out successfully.
5.0      Project Implementation
5.01     Variances in the Implementation.   Despite careful preparation   (para. 4.03),
MOP was unable to implement the project promptly and efficiently. From the beginning,
legal and administrative difficulties of the Borrower delayed Loan Signature and
Effectiveness for several months.   Additional delays resulted from the slowness and
inadequacy of the engineering for the first-year program, and the unexpected execution
by the PC's of improvement works in many of the roads that had been included in MOP's
first year program.  Thus, the first dry season foreseen for execution of civil works,
July-December 1981, was lost. Similarly, internal squabbling in MOP about the technical
specifications and biddi.--3 documents impeded initiation of the equipment procurement
process during the firs. year of project implementation.   The technical assistance
programs for road maintenance and training and for transport planning were carried over
without interruption from the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC), however, contracting
of the technical assistance for rural roads was not initiated because of internal



-4-
discrepancies in MOP about the scope of the program and the percentage of participation
by foreign consultants because of contradictory interpretation of local law.  The low
level at which the UCCV had been established and .-he ineffectiveness of the project
coordinator contributed decisively to hinder adeqti .e progress.
5.02     These internal difficulties were carried over into the second year of project
implementation and were exacerbated by two successive complete changes of MOP authorities
(September and December 1981). By June 1982, the first 14 contracts for construction of
about 300 Km of rural roads were awarded, however, the second dry season (July-
December 1982) was again lost because of protracted contracting procedures, MOP's
inability to provide the required auvance payments in a timely way, and unusually heavy
rainfall. Changes in the procedures for contracting engineering studies caused further
delays in the engineering for the balance of vhe first year program and in the contracting
of the engineering for the second.   The first bids for equipment procurement were
submitted July 30, 1982  but, evaluation of these bids took almost a year.   In the
meantime, MOP introduced substantial changes in the list and technical specifications of
the remaining equipment to be procured under the loan, as well as in the bidding documents
to overcome weaknesses detected during processing of the first bid. On the positive side,
during 1982 the training program got off to a promising start, two instructors were sent
to training abroad, the project coordinator was replaced by a more effective engineer,
MOP and the Bank agreed on an amendment to the Loan Agreement to provide financing for
contracting supervision oi civil works, and MOP was finally able (after two years delay),
to award the contract for technical assistance required for implementation of the rural
roads program.
5.03     After another turnover of MOP authorities (March 1983) and careful analysis of
the accumulated negative experience during the preceding two years, MOP and the Bank
agreed ih  1983 on a completely revised program, a specific action plan for project
implementation, and a new set of deadlines for compliance with Loan covenants'.  These
new agreements resulted in improved project implementation from April to August 1983.
Construction of about 400 km of feeder roads (first year program) and engineering of
300 km got underway, the technical assistance program for Highway Maintenance and training
and for Transport Planning were completed and the technical assistance to UCCV got started
in July 1983. Ord-rs for US$7.8 million in maintenance equipment were placed that same
month and procur-.ent procedures for an additional US$12.0 million began. At that time,
a third (this t=me knowledgeable and active) project coordinator took over effectively
and the maintenance agreements with the three provinces were agreed on. Moreover, the
Government passed a law providing the road sector with generous financing from excess oil
revenues. An agreement was reached on the creation of a Subsecretary of Land Transport
within MOP and on arrangements to initiate studies for an effective control of vehicle
axle loads.
5.04     Unfortunately,  further difficulties  and delays arose by the end of 1983:
(a) construction of the first-year program progressed only 32 during the dry season
because of deficient engineering quality, unrealistically low prices without price
escalation and unseasonally heavy rainfall; (b) engineering of the second-year program
was interrupted to review its quality, while preparation of engineering of the third year
program was delayed again because of rurther changes in contracting procedures; (c) the
signed contract for technical assistance to the UCCV was belatedly objected to by both
the Contraloria and the Procuraduria; (d) the processing of equipment orders was bogged
down and the bidding for the balance of the equipment was delayed by several months



-5--
because of cumbersome administrative procedures inside and outside MOP; (e) the
maintenance contracts with the provinces were not signed: (f) the professional team
assembled for personnel training had been mostly disbanded; and (g) MOP had failed to
comply with the agreed actions for creation of a Land Transport Subsecretariat and for
initiating bidding procedures for the study on control of axle loads.
5.05     Despite  strenuous  efforts  by  the  Minister  and  the  Coordinator,  project
implementation deteriorated even further during 1984, mainly because of red tape within
MOP and disagreements between MOP, Contraloria and Procuraduria on enactment of. any
contract o- regulation needed for project implementation, further compounded by the
deteriorating economic situation of Ecuador. A new action plan for project implementation
agreed in April 1984 was only partially carried out.  On the positive side, the first
batch of maintenance equipment arrived by midyear, part of it subsequently delivered to
the three provinces, and the maintenance agreements with the provincial councils were
finally signed. Spare parts for about US$2 million had been purchased and processing of
procurement for the second batch of maintenance equipment finally got underway. On the
negative side, about 702 of the contracts for road and bridge construction were cancelled
due to lack of executing capacity by the contractors, and only a few contracts for about
80 km of roads and 133 m of bridges continued in active execution.   The change of
Government in August 1984 brought about a complete renewal in MOP's hierarchy, except for
the project coordinator, as well as the decision to entrust supervision of civil works
and of maintenance of rural roads to the newly created Subsecretariat in Guayaquil. This
positive regionalization policy did not coalesce because of legal and administrative
difficulties and caused further difficulties and additional delays in project
implementation, by that time more than three years behind schedule. The new Government
also decided to scrap the idea of creating a Subsecratariat for Land Transport within MOP
and to promote instead the formation of a Ministry of Transport.   MOP's budgetary
increases derived from oil revenues were allocated mostly to new construction projects
and not used to increase the maintenance budget adequately.
5.06     All Government efforts -uring the subsequent four years failed to consolidate
continuous progress in project implementation, despite three extensions of the Loan
Closing date from June 30, 1985 to June 30, 1988, and a reformulation of the project in
September 1985 reducing the project scope from 1.500 to 700 km and increasing funding
for procurement of equipment by 252.   Divergent opinions from the two successive
Ministers, the three successive Directors Generals and many other rotating directors
within MOP caused persistent delays in the bidding processes uf civil works and equipment.
Several attempts by MOP to award equipment contracts not complying with Bank guidelines
caused extended delays until agreement could be reached. In addition, whenever contacts
for civil works or equipment were finally awarded, preparation of the documents for
contracting by MOP's legal department took at least four months, and payment of advances
aditional to six months.   As a result of these compounded delays, the deadlines for
repeatedly agreed action plans were seldom met and little roads work could be accomplished
during the dry season.   Undue and contradictory interference by the Contraloria and
Procuraduria in general bidding and contracting procedures, and by the Central Bank and
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in the equipment procurement proceasing further
marred project implementation and finally impeded any progress. The idea of the formation
of a Ministry of Transport was later replaced again by the intent to create a
Subsecretariat, later by a fall back to the original idea of the creation of an
Interministerial Commission, and finally abandoned altogether. The study for control of
axle loads was completed in October 1985: however, its recommendations were never carried



-6-
out.   The increasingly deteriorating economic crisis in Ecuador, exacerbated by the
March 1987 earthquake, resulted in drastic reductions in fiscal allocations to 14OP, far
below approved budgets and, subsequently in MOP's inability to pay the contractors of the
vastly expanded civil works program.  By the end of the administration, in July 1988:
payments to contractors of the rural road program were about a year in arrears.  The
quality of road works executed was not satisfactory because of poor performance of the
contractors and inadequate supervision (para. 6.02).
5.07     The incoming Government coRfronted in August 1988 a complete financial crisis
and was unable to make any payments to contractors until March 1989. Thus, the additional
period for processing of disbursements until March 31, 1989, granted at Government request
by the Bank, was to no avail. The Loan was cancelled June 29, 1989, four years after the
original closing date, leaving an US$7.6 million balance undisbursed (142 of the loan
proceeds) while only 902 of the reduced rural road program and 872 of the equipment
procurement program had been completed.  About 100 km of roads were completed in. the
second semester of 1989, with own financing, raising the total length of roads improved
to 105Z of the reduced program (para.5.06).
5.08     Possible Avoidance of Variances and Risks.  The main variance between planned
and actual project implementation was MOP's inability to follow the clear and well
balanced implementation program agreed during preparation and confirmed at negotiations.
This program was based on the expectation that MOP would retain the fairly high level of
administrative effectiveness it had reached at the time of appraisal in November 1979.
This was not the case.  A deterioration of MOP's administrative capacity was already
detected at the time ot negotiations, in May 1980, and motivated setting up an unusually
large number of covenants to secure satisfactory project implementation. Unfortunately.
these risk-preventive measures were not sufficient.   MOP's deterioration worsened
progres6ively in the following years, reached its lowest level in early 1983, and improved
only slightly during the remaining years of project  implementation.   Other risks
concerning execution of rural roads maintenance programs in the three project provinces,
effective national feeder roads administration, and efforts to attain coordinated
transport planning were correctly identified. Preventing measures included well prepared
future agreements between involved agencies and detailed terms of reference for technical
assistance.  However, these precautions proved insufficient to overcome the engrained
difficulties.
5.09     Other Factors.  In addition to the above mentioned progressive deterioration of
MOP's executing capacity, other negative factors not foreseen were: (a) the impact of
the early 1980s oil crisis and the 1987 earthquake on the Ecuadoran economy, which reduced
the amount of counterpart funding available; (b) the unexpectedly high rainfall during
two successive years in the civil works project area; (c) the repeated change of policies
throughout two presidential administrations (1980-1988): and (d) the sometimes excessive
intervention  of  core  9,encies  in  all  processes  required  for  adequate  project
implementation.
5.10     Actions Affecting Implementation. The single action that most affected project
implementation was the Banks willingness at negotiations to forfeit its demand for
establishment of a strong Rural Road Directorate endowed with ample powers to coordinate
all initiatives and actions related to rural roads within MOP and with more than
30 agencies involved in rural roads administration. In view of MOP's failure to improve
project implementation, despite constant Bank recommendations for action submitted by,



-7-
and action plans agreed with, successive Bank missions, and confirmed by stern Bank
communications, at operational level we believe that this protject should have been
designed in tranches or that the Bank should have taken timely decisive action on
suspension of disbursements as a means to stimulate effective remedial action by MOP.
6.0      Proiect Results
6.01     Project Obiectives.  The project was not successful in meeting its objectives:
(a) The development of a rational feeder road system in Ecuador and related planning
capabil_ty in MOP was not achieved.   On the contrary, independent and often
counterproductive action on rural roads by other agencies went on and was
supported by ad hoc government financing. Moreover. MOP failed to coordinate
internal planning and execution of rural roads, and even created two additional
rural road units;
(b) The strengthening of the road maintenance capability for main roads as well as
for feeder roads was achieved only partially.   The  increased maintenance
execution capability obtained by MOP and the three provinces through extensive
procurement of equipment and spare parts did not have the expected results
because of the failure to carry out successful institutional strengthening and
personnel training programs, and because of the extreme reduction of funding
for maintenance. MOP maintenance expenditures in 1985 in real terms amounted
to only about 55Z of the targets agreed at negotiations and were not
substantially  increased in later years.   The three provinces carried out
satisfactory rural road maintenance programs from 1985 to 1987; however, no
information is available about work performed in 1988 and 1989. The agreements
between MOP and the provinces expired June 30, 1988. Only by the end of 1989
were new agreements signed; however, they only covered matters related to the
ownership of the equipment. Specific road maintenance programs were not agreed
until January 1990.
(c) No progress was made in establishing a central authority for transport planning
and coordination; on the contrary, the Land Transport Planning Directorate
established in MOP in the early 1980s, under Loan 1231-EC, in later years
experienced substantial weakening with significant reduction of its field of
action. The establishment of an adequate control system for vehicle axle loads
recommended in the study financed under this loan was not carried out; and
(d) Under the training program for MOP personnel only 467 staff were trained,
compared to 1,500 foreseen at appraisal.  No training efforts were carried out
in the project provinces.
6.02     Physical Results.  The main objective_.. of the project were not changed during
project implementation; however, in September 1985 significant changes were introduced
in the two investment components of the project. The project scope for construction of
rural roads was reduced froml,500 km to 700 because of the inability of MOP to implement
the original program in a reasonable time: and the allocation for equipment and spare
parts procurement was increased from a base cost of US$18.6 million to a total cost of
US$30.9 million, reflecting the fact that MOP's equipment fleet had aged considerably and
its composition needed a better balance. The weighted average economic return (ERR) for



- 8 -
the original 1,500 km program had been estimated at 45.52. In 1990 MOP prepared economic
confirmation studies for twelve of the completed roads, rendering a weighted average ERR
of 33Z.  However,  four of these roads had original average daily traffic above 300.
Therefore, in the confirmation study, as in ihe appraisal. only benefits from non-
directly agricultural related traffic was considered causing the ERR of these four roads
to fall slightly below 12Z.   If the substantial economic benefit derived,  from the
increased agrirultural production in the direct influence a-ea of each road is considered.
the ERR of all four roads rises above 99Z and the weighted average ERR rises to at least
53%. Quality of roads constructed was generally poor because of contractor disregard for
sound construction principles and technical specifications, coupled with weak supervision.
Repeated efforts by Bank missions and later by the rural roads technical assistance to
improve construction standards-through field visits, discussions of photographic evidence
(even at the highest level in MOP), and training courses for contractors, supervision
consultants, and MOP personnel-achieved only limited results.  The maintenance program
for the main network Liad been evaluated through the differential in net costs to the
economy with and without the program, assuring a substantial improvement in the condition
of the network (roads in good condition would increase from 28.62 to 71.5Z of the network;
roads in fair condition would decrease from 30.5% to 24.82; and roads in bad condition.
would decrease from 402 to 3.7Z), which would render a benefit-cost ratio of about 5.2:1.
The economic return was expected to be above 502. As no updated condition inventory of
the road network is available, no confirmation study can be carried out. However, it can
be inferred that the condition of the network has not improved significantly, due to
insufficient budgets and absence of adequate institutional strengthening.
6.03     Project Impact.  Although the project did not achieve the expected impact in
subsectoral growth and policies, nor on the economic development of the project provinces,
the rural roads completed under the project improved agricultural production and the
social and economic conditions of rural living in the areas they serve. The project's
possible impact on improvement of road maintenance administration was curtailed by
inadequate financing of the maintenance programs and by the failure to achieve
institutional strengthening of the maintenance divisions in MOP and the provinces. The
project also failed to achieve institutional strengthening of MOP's training organization
and of the Government's transport planning capacity.
7.0   Project Sustainability
7.01     The limited level of benefits obtained through actual construction of rural
roads under the project may not hold up in the future because of poor construction and
lack of permanent arrangements to guarantee their proper maintenance. Sustainability of
the strengthening of MOP's physical capability to carry out maintenance programs is
impaired by insufficient financing and absence of will to carry out the training programs
and institutional strengthening measures required. Whatever scant progress was made under
the project in the areas of rural road pl.nning and transport planning and coordination
probably will be lost soon because o.- the absence of strong organizations to perpetuate
the achievements.
8.0      Bank Performance
8.01     Preparation and Appraisal.   During project identification, preparation,  and
appraisal the Bank carefully and successfully recommended, and monitored all actions
needed to put together a well conceived and promising project (para 4.03). To guarantee



-9-
prompt and smooth implementation of the project, the Bank assembled a comprehensive set
of covenants which was even expanded during negotiations taking into account the weakening
of MOP's administration that was detected at that time. Unfortunately, at negotiations
the Bank did not insist on its recommendation for the creation of a strong rural road
directorate (para 4.04), which proved later to be a main source of weaknesses in project
implementation.
8.02     Supervision.  Supervision of this project was carried out during the first years
simultaneously with supervision of the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects and was therefore
not very time consuming. The Bank followed closely the difficulties progressively arising
in project implementation, and presented timely and repeated recommendations to prevent
deterioration and improve project implementation.  Given the clear agreements reached
during negotiations on project implementation and MOP's persistent failure to comply with
there agreements, or with deadlines of action plans agreed later on during project
implementation, the Bank should have applied the remedies foreseen in the Loan Agreement,
particularly suspension of disbursements. These remedies were not applied. con'.idering
that each new MOP administration vromised to take adequate corrective action. Based on
the negative experience with both the Fifth and Sixth Highway Loans, at operational level
we recommend that future investment projects in Ecuador should be designed in tranches
with precisely defined targets to be achieved in given timeframes to facilitate timely
application of corrective measures.   Alternatively, the Loan Agreement could include
precise policy conditionality, establish all arrangements needed to ensure the
institutional strengthening required for implementation of the project, and link them with
the standard disbursement suspension provisions.
9.0      Borrower Performance
9.01     Strengths and Weaknesses.   The effective participation of MOP in project
preparation, through its own staff and consultants, was greatly diminished by the change
of administration in 1979 to the extreme that by the time of negotiations, May 1980, the
weaknesses of the new MOP hierarchy became quite apparent. From then on initiation and
implementation of the project were increasingly hampered by: (a) lack of a sustained
commitmenit of the Government to the objectives of the project: (b) discontinuity of high
and mid-level staff assignment, newcoming inexperienced administrators and technicians
slowed down the process, took wrong decisions and often insisted on repeating the same
errors that had been previously corrected; (c) a chronic shortage of qualified technical
personnel due to low government salaries, which resulted in inadequate capacity to resolve
technical problems in a timely and effective manner; (d) reluctance of mid level staff
to assume administrative and technical responsibilities, leaving all decision-taking to
high level, mostly politically-motivated, administrators; (e) cumbersome bidding and
contracting procedures exacerbated by extreme and often contradictory intervention of
outside agencies; (f) extreme delays in processing payments to contractors and
consultants, resulting from the Borrower's overly complex procedures and documentation
requirements, both in MOP and in the Ministry of Finance; (g) poor performance of most
contractors and supervisory consultants; and (h) reluctance of the Central Bank to ensure
fast flow of funds deposited in the Special Account.
9.02     Lessons  and Experience.    Substantial  changes  in Government  policies  and
procedures and in MOP performances would be needed to attain greater effectiveness in
the preparation and implementation of investment projects. The Government would have to
commit itself to accept sound planning principles, to streamline its administrative,



- 10 _
budgeting, and procurement procedures, to improve its fiscal plicies, and to ensure
greater permanency of managerial and technical staff.   MOP would have to correct the
ingrained weaknesses described above by: (a) upgrading the technical capacity of its
staff through increased salaries and better use of technical assistance in road planning,
design, construction and maintenance received under Loans 1231-EC and 1882-EC: (b)
fostering decision-taking capacity of mid level staff; (c) improving internal coordination
and streamlining administrative procedures; (d) fostering managerial and technical
development of contractors and consultants; and (e) taking decisions based primarily on
technical and economic criteria.   Similar measures would apply to other possible
implementing agencies.
10.0     Project Relationship
10.01    Bank-Borrower Relation.  The Bank's consistent and repeated efforts to improve
project preparation and implementation did not succeed, because of weak MOP performance.
On the other hand, the repeated assurances by incoming new MOP authorities that they would
take adequate corrective actions induced the Bank not to apply sterner measures, such as
suspension of disbursements.   Despite repeated efforts, the Bank did not succeed in
ensuring more expeditious handling of financial aspects of project implementation by the
Ministry of Finance and by the Central Bank. In preparing future investment projects in
Ecuador, the Bank should ensure that all potentially unfavorable aspects have been taken
into account.
10.02    Internal Relations of the Borrower. MOP did not succeed in ensuring satisfactory
collaboration with the provincial councils of the three provinces for the implementation
of the project, nor with other Government agencies involved in rural roads for the
implementation of sound rural road policies and planning, Implementation of the project
was seriously affected by excessive interference from both the administrative and the
legal state control agencies (Contraloria and Procuraduria). To allow expeditious and
effective processing of future investment projects, the Government would have to
strengthen collaboration between public agencies, liberate technical decisions from
extraneous influences, and ensure firm commitment to the project objectives from all
agencies involved.
11.0     Consulting Services
11.01    The consultant services for highs  - maintenance and training and for transport
planning were carried over from the Fourth   ghway Project, (Loan 1231-EC) and performed
reasonably well, especially in transport planning.
11.02    Consultant services  for rural road planning and execution were deployed with
three years' delay, much too late to help overcome conceptual, technical, and organization
difficulties experienced during the critical first year .c prcject implementation. The
worthy efforts of these 'consultants to assist MOP in masLeri?' these difficulties were
mostly unsuccessful because of MOP's mistrust and unwillingness _o follow the consultant's
recommendat'ions.
11.03    Supervision of civil works execution by local consultants was mostly ineffective
because of: (a) flawed selection of a great number of individual consultants; (b)
unsatisfactory technical and administrative knowledge; (c) low wages and delayed payments;



- 11 -
and (iv) inability of MOP to provide the means of transportation for adequate supervision
of works agreed in the respective contracts.
12.0     Project Documentation and Data
12.01    The legal agreements for this project included 28 covenants, which, although
necessary  to ensure  satisfactory  implementation  of the project,  should have  been
consolidated into a lower number of important covenants with clear implementation
schedules.  The extensive appraisal report dealt in detail with all aspects requested
for satisfactory project implementation. Unfortunately, it was not adequately used by
the Borrower to get a better understanding of the project.   Data needed for   the
preparation of the PCR was readily available in Bank files.  The Aide Memoires agreed
after each Bank mission were particularly helpful in the preparation of this report.



- 12 -
PART II .- PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       On October 20. 1989. February 19, 1990 and May 11. 1990, MOP sent F. Completion
Report and complementary information containing material that was used in the preparation
of this report, however the documents sent did nor contain an independent analysis of
lessons learned from the operation, nor of Bank's and MOP's performance.  Therefore it
is suggested. that parts I and III of this report be sent to the Borrower requesting
comments on the Bank's analysis of key implementation issues.



- 13 -
PART III. - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Number
Project                         Year of
Title       Purpose            Approval         Status             Comments
1231-EC     Upgrading of a       3/30/76        Completed  US$10.5 million loan.
Fourth      49  km  high-                                   Civil    works    and
Highway    priority road,                                   technical  assistance
Project     and  improving                                  s u c c e s s f u 1 1 y
planning   and                                 completed  with  two
management  in                                 year delay.
the  transport
sector.
1429-EC     Upgrading   of      5/19/77         Closed     US$17.5 million loan.
F i f t h   the  transport                      06/30/85   Despite   four   year
Highway     system    and                                   extension  this  loar.
Project     correcting                                      failed to attain its
institutional                                  objectives,  none  of
deficiencies,                                  the    roads    were
construction                                   c o m p 1 e t e d .
o f    a b o u t                               US$3.5 million of the
130  km    of                                  loan   amount   were
roads.                                         cancelled.
1991-EC     Improving  the       5112/81        Ongoing    US$20 million   loan.
Puerto   standard    of                                     Delays  in  execution
Ila-        liv in g    of                                  of  roads  and  other
C h o n e   about   10,000                                  components  seriously
Rural       rural families                                  a  f  f e  c  t e  d
Develop-    by  increasing                                  implementation    of
ment        agricultural                                    t h i s    p r oj e c t .
Project     productivity                                    S i t u a t i o n    has
in an area of                                  improved in the last
about  170,000                                 two years.
ha.
2044-EC     Inmproving  the      7/22/82        Ongoing    US$17 million   loan.
Esmeral-    standard    of                                  Delays  in  execution
das         liv ing    of                                   of  roads  and -other
RuLal       about    5,100                                  components  seriously
Develop-    rural families                                  a  f  f e  c  t e  d
ment        by  increasing                                  implementation    of
Project     agricultural                                    t h i s    p r oj e c t .
productivity                                   S i t u a t i o n    h a s
in an area of                                  improved in the last
about   94,000                                 two years.
ha.
JI



14-
2. Proiect Timetable
Date           Date            Date
Item                            Planned         Revised        Actual
-Identification                        -               -             03/07/78
-Preparation Mission I                 -               -             05/16179
-Preparation Mission II                -               -             09118/79
-Appraisal Mission                     -               -             11/17/79
-Post-Appraisal Mission                -               -             01/30/80
-Loan Negotiation                      -               -            05/21180
-Board Approval                      06/06/80          -            06/24/80
-Loan Signaturel/                    09125(80          -             10(31(80
-Loan Effectiveness2/                02/03/81        04/03/81        05/15181
-Project Completion3/                12131184        12131/85           -
-Loan Closing4/                      06/30/85        06130186           -
-/06(30/87                  06130/88
l/ First Signature by Minister of Finance in Washington during Annual
Meeting, was not legal because the decree authorizing signature was approved the
next day. The Loan had to be signed a second time by the Ecuadoran Ambassador.
2/   Effectiveness was postponed until compliance with the  following
conditions; (a) signing of legal agreements with three involved provincial
councils, and (b) Creation in MOP of a Coordination Unit for Rural Roads.
31 Project was not completed.
41 The Loan Closing date was postponed three years, the Loan was finally
cancelled June 29, 1989.
I0



.5 -
S. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Eatimated and Actual DiObursoments
(USV Million)
FY81                                FY82     FY68    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY63    FY69
Appraisal Estiate                   7.5      83.0    41.8    50.6    65.0    Sb.O.   66.0   66.0   66.0
Actual                              0.       2.8      6.6    12.0    18.9    25.1    a0.0   45.8   47.6
Actual as S of
Estimates                         4.0       7.0    13.9    23.7    a4.4    46.6    64.6   62.4   66.4
4. ProJect I;plementation
Apprislal
Indicators                           Estimat  Actual           Coments
Creation of Rural Roads
Coordination Unit                    02/03/81 04/30/81
Signing of Participation
Agre eme nt.  with Provinces         02/08/81 04/30/81
Employment of consultants for:
- planning of foeder roads            12/30/e0 06/30/88
- road maintenance and training       12/30/80 06/80/81 Wo carried over from Ln 1281-EC
- transport planning                 06/80/80  6/3O/81 Wa  carried over from Ln 1231-EC
Roads to be improved (hn)                             1,500              785           Additional 182 km In
execution.
Expanoion of Central
Workshop (m2)                                         1,290                -            A training center of similar
area was built.
Divisional Workshops
(unIte)                                                   7                6           None in execution.
(in2)                                                 8,670          unknown
Area Workshops
(Unlte)                                                  22                1            9 additional in execution.
Cm2)                                                  7,030          unknown
Equipment procurement:
-For feeder roadx (US8000)                            86,00            7,220            Allocations for equipment
-For m in network (USSOOO)                            6,000           13,750             procurment were increased
-For workshops and spare                                                                 aftor reduction of the
parts (USOOO)                                       4_100            6,980             scope of civil works.
TOTAL                                                                  16,600   26,900
- Establishment of Training Department             12/81/S0         01/27/81
- Operation of Training Center                     12/i1/81
Number of People to be trained
1981                                                    460                62           No date supplied for later
1962                                                    400               e6             years of project
1983                                                    325                97            implemntation.
1964                                                    315               106            (19W6 and 1967).
1966                                                     _                113
TOTAL                                                                   1.500       467



-16 -
S. Project Cost and Financing
A. Protect Costs
(in US$M)
Avgraisal Estimate                          Actual
Local Foreign          Z of              Po:eign          Z of
Costs Exchange         Total   Local   Exchange           Total
Category                   Costs    Total  Coats   Costs   Costs    Total  Costs
Civil Works         23.30 19.20       42.50   40.9   li.33  12.54        27.87   41 .1
Equipment             .SO 16.80      18.60   17.9    2.70  27.09        29.79   44.0
Engineering and
Supervision        1.00  1.70        2.70    2.6    1.28   1.97         3.25    4-.8
Technical Assistance
and Training       1 70  3.90        5.60    5.4    1.01   5.86         6.87   10.1
Contingencies       21.20 13.40       34.60   332         -
Total               49.00 55.00    104.00  100.00  20.32  47.46          67.78  100.0
Conments:  The equivalent in US dollars estimated at appraisal was based on 1 USS    25
sucres. Actual costs in US dollars derive from stream of disbursements from 1981 to
1989 resulting from the following average annual exchange rates:  1981:25, 1982:30.03,                            -
1983:44.12, 1984:62.54. 1985:69.56. 1986:122.78. 1987:170.46. 1988%301.61. and
1989:526.35. Total project cost was only 65SZ of appraisal estimate due to the
substantial reduction in the scope of rural roads construction from 1500km to 700km.
which was not offset by the significant increase in equipment procurement, from a base
cost of USS18.6 million to a total cost of
US$29.8 million.
S. Proiect Financing
(in USSM)
Source                             Planned                 Actual
2 of                    Z of   2 of
Amount  Total           Amount Total Variation
IBRD                              55.00    52.9           47.46  70.0       -13.7
Civil Works                       19.20   18.5            12.54  18 .5      -34.7
Equipment                         16.80    16.2           27.09  40.0       +61.2
Engineering and Supervision        1.70      1.6           1.97   2.9       +15.9
Technical Assistance and
Training                         3.90     3.7            5.86   8.6       +50.2
Contingencies                     13.40   12.9                -                 _
Domestic                          49.00   47.1             20.32  30.0      -58.5
Civil Works                        23.30   22.4            15.33  22.6      -34.2
Equipment                           1.80     1.7            2.70   4.0      +50.0
Engineering ana Supervision         1.00     1.0            1.28   1.9      +28.0
Technical Assistance and
Training                         1.70      1.6            1.01   1.5      -40.6
Contingencies                      21.20   20.4               -       -         .0
Total                             104.00  100.0            67.78 100        -34.8



- 17 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
*                                                            Estimated at
ClosinR
*      Indicators                       Appraisal   Date           Full Development
Completion of National Feeder
Road program                     12/30/82        -         Not carried out
Inventory of Public Roads under
MOP jurisdiction                 12/31180    01/31/82      Has not been updated
Inventory of all other public
roads                            12131/81         -        Not carried out
Traffic survey of roads under
MOP jurisdiction                 12/31/80    12131180      Has not been updated
Countrywide traffic survey       12131181    12/31185      Only partial
Classification  of  the  road
network                          06/30/82         -        Not carried out
Establishment   of   National
Transport Commission             06130181         -        Not carried out
Targets    for    equipment  E i g h t                     MOP unable to develop
availability and utilization    specific                   supporting informa-
targets                   tion
Targets  for road maintenance       26                     MOP unable to develop
programs                         specific                   supporting  informa-
targets        -          tion
B. Economic Impact
1.    The rural roads component was evaluated by consultants ISRATECVIA by
disaggregating 5,700 Km of rural roads in the three provinces into about 1000
section and using a computer model to determine the type of improvement proposed
for each section and its relative economic priority. Direct transport costs were
measured  through  vehicle  operating  cost  (VOC)  savings  from  non-directlv
agricultural related traffic, and agricultural benefits through value added to
agricultural production because of better quality and year-round access to
farming areas.   Socioeconomic indicators related to population density and
literacy improvement were used in addition to the above economic indicators to



- is -
determine the optimal year for improving a particular road. Although only 502
of the calculated agricultural benefits were used, acutoff economic rate of
return of 122 justified the improvement of 1,500 km of feeder and secondary roads
with a weighted average economic rate of return (ERR) of 462.
2.    HOP prepared economic confirmation studies for 12 sample roads, with the
follrwing results:
Length  Ave. Daily Traffic  Econ. Rate of Return
Subproject                        Km     Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual
Nudo 3740 -La Victoria            17.7        25.       116      51        66
Vernaza - Tres Marias              6.0        30         39      18        51
P. Cabo - Potrero Virgen           9.8        45         57      36        35
Potrero Virgen - Zamora            9.7        15          7      21        44
Machala - Corralitos              11.2       300       1007      60         11 a/
Machala - Jaen                    11.5        69        186      48         99
Cafias - Las Palmas                8.8      114         103      68        30
Caluma - Ricauste                 25,4      300         390      55        12 a/
Ventanas - Echandia               27.9      300         425      61         8 a/
Mangas - Las Guayas               10.0       200        345      35        12 a/
Las Guayas - Sitio                11.5        20          8      19        99
Lorenzo - Rio Chico                6.0        25        130      75        99
Weighted average rate of return                                         above 33
a/    As in the appraisal, the economic confirmation study considers only VOC
savings, if agricultural benefits from the direct influence area of each road
is added the ERR of all four roads rises above 99, and the weighted average rate
of return would increase at least to 53.
3.   The maintenance  program  for the main  road network was  evaluated by
consultants ROY JORGENSEN based on the difference in net costs to the economy
with and without the program, considering only vehicle operating cost savings
acruing as a result of improved road conditions. It was assumed that over the
four year program roads in good condition would increase from 28.62 to 71.52 of
the network, roads in fair condition would decrease from 30.52 to 24.8% and
roads in bad condition would decrease from 402 to 3.72, which would render a
benefit cost ration of about 5.2:1.  The economic rate of return was expected
to be above 502.  As no condi.tion inventory of the road network after completion
of the project is available, no confirmation study has been carried out.
However, it can be inferred that because of inrifficient budgets and absence of
adequate institutional strenthening the Londition of the road network has not
improved significantly, it may have even deteriorated further.



19 -
C. Studiep
Purpose as Defined                     Impact of
Item                  at Appraisal          Status          Study
Road User          Study specific aspects Completed  Study was approved by the
Charge Study       of road user taxes in  10/31/82   Bank, updated in 1985,
order to recommend                   however, its recommen-
improvements of taxes,               dations have not becn
licensing and vechicle               implemented.
registration system.
Vehicle Dimen-    Was added in 1983 to   10/31/85   Study was approved by the
sions and Axle    define regulations for                Bank, however, its recom-
Study             vehicle dimensions and               mendations have nct been
axle loads, and to recom-            implemented.
mend a system for their
enforcement.



- 20 -
7. Status of Loan Covenants
Section                Covenant                          Status of Compliance
MOP's use, starting in FY82, of        An attempt to comply was made
3.01(c)         a budgeting and accounting system      in  1983,  but never  followed
separating maintenance and other       through.
activities   and  disaggregating
expenditures.
3.02(a)  and   MOP  and  Project  Provinces  to        Isolated  efforts  were  made;
(b)             employ adequate staff.                 however,    continued    staff
turnover    has    impeded
consolidation    of   adequate
staff.
3.04    and   MOP and each Project Province to         Participation Agreements were
3.07            enter  into  Participation  and        signed May 1981 and Maintenance
Maintenance Agreements.                Ag:-eements December 1983 and
%,(re complied with until mid
3.05    and    Set   detailed   agreements   for    1-h;oughout    p r o j e c t
3.06            timely preparation of engineering      implementation MOP was uneaXe
and  execution  of  annual  road       tc  comply with  the original
programs.                              time-table and with successive
agreements    for    timely
prep, ration and execution of
roa 1 aubprojects.
3.08(a)         MOP to establish and maintain a        A weak ITCCV was established in
Feeder  Roads  Coordination  Unit      January    1981;    it    was
(UCCV)                                 strengthened in 1985, but again
weake:Aed in mid-1988.
3.12            A  training  department  to  be         The  training  department  was
established  by  12/31/80  and  a      established    7/27/81;    the
training center to be constructed      training center was completed
and  set-up  for  operation  by        in June 1987, but never put to
12/31181.                              appropriate -.se.
3.13            UCCV to conduct a traffic survey        Traffic survey of a few project
of all project roads in 1984 and       roads was carried out in 1987;
prepare  an  impact  study  for a      impact studies are underway.
selected number of roads.



- 21 -
4 . 0 3 ( a )   Execution of detailed inventory         Inventory  of  MOP  roads  was
and (b)         of roads under MOP jurisdiction         carried  out  in  1982.  and
by 12/31/80 and of other public        updated in 1987.  Inventory of
roads by 12/31/81.                     other  public  roads  was  not
carried out.
4 . 0 4 ( a ) ,   MOP  to  establish  satisfactory      Traffic  on  MOP  roads  was
(b) and (c)     procedures for monitoring traffic      monitored in 1981 and 1982 and
on MOP roads and to complete, by       updated in 1987.  The country-
12/31/81, a country-wide traffic       wide traffic survey has been
survey.                                carried out only partially.
4.05            Classification   of   the   road        Study not carried out.
network according to criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.06            Execution of a road-user charge         Study   carried   out   10/82,
study and exchange of views with       updated in 1985 and discussed
the Banks about recommendations.       with  the  Bank,  however,  its
recomnendations have not been
implemented.
4.07            Establishment   of   a   National       Repeated successive efforts to
Transport Commission by June 30,       create some kind of a Transport
1981.                                  Planning Authority have failed.
4 . 0 8 ( a )   Preparation of a road subsector         The Road Development Plan was
and (b)         development plan by 9/30/80, to         completed on time and updated
be used as a basis for the 1980-       several times,  but has never
1984 National Development Plan.        been    considered    in    the
preparation of Road Plans or
National Development Plans.
4.10(a)         Vehicle  dimension  axle-loading        A study of a vehicle weight
and  weight  regulations  to  be       control plan was carried out in
enforced,  and  effectiveness  of      1984; however, recommendations
enforcement  to  be  periodically      have not been implemented.
monitored.



- 22 -
8. Use of Bank R-M ueea
A. Staff Inm.ta
suaq. of                                                                  F~                                                       oa
Pro-  sel Y8F7F       Y         0a IFUFt8 E.CS  F8 fYleF90 o 
Through Asp,.ewil        1.4     19.6    17.8                                                                                     39.0
Appraisal Through 0k
Saerd Approval                         40.4
0sOed Approvel Throu,gh
effecti '0n.0                                                                        .0.0
Su*ervision                                                9.4   16.2    7.4   14.3    6.1    15.2         3.0    2.6      6.0   80.2
TOTAL                    1.4     19.0   56.2    10.0       9.4   16.2    7.4   14.3        6.1   15.2    3.0       2.6     6.0    169  6
8. Hiu.Le
stag, of                       month        Nus*bo of            ay- sn             S.ecializateion        Perfoene.    Types of
Proit Cyele                   'FeifeJLI   /                                         Rawrsnt3/           gatin,lStstuea3/ Co2L0    4
Through Ap.raeiel              3/78               1                7                    En
5(79              2                12                   ec.En
g.-79             J                15                   2 EC  En
Aeeprisel Through              11/70             3                20                   Agr, E, En
gourd Aeero-el               2/80              2                 a                   EC, En
86s4d Approvl                  11/80             2                14                   Be. En                     1
Through Effectiveness        3/81              3                15                   F_. En, Tr                 1
Superviesin                    7-8/81            2                12                    Ed. En                    2            M. 7
9/61              1                4                     En                        2            NT
3/J2              3                10                   a.nS E.PA                  2            FT
7-6/62            1                15                   an                         2              t t
12/82             1                4                    Tr
3/8S3                              15                   E. En                      2            M  T
7/63              2                12                   En En                      2            M, T
11/8S             1                6                                               a            ". T
4/84              2                10                   2 64                       3            M. T
9/84              2                10                   EC  En                     3             4. T
12/64             2                5                    EC Ee                      3            M, T
84/Gs             2                10                   E. En                      2             4, T
11/86             1                 6                   En                         3              . T
3/66              1                 6                    eC                        2             4. T
7/86              1                 5                   En                         3              . T.F
11/s6             1                7                    En                         3            M, .F
3/87              1                 S                   En                         3            M, T,F
6/67              1                 5                   En                         2            T  F
11/67             1                5                    En                         2            T  F
6/6a              1                 5                   En                         2              . T,P
10/Se             2                a                    Fe. En                     3            M. T  F
lj  All missions were combined with supervision of the IV and V Highway
Projects (Loans 1231-EC and 1429-EC) and of other investment projects.
2/  Agr - Agricultural expert; Ec -'Economist ; En - Engineer;
FA = Financial Analyst; Tr = Training expert.
3/  1 - Minor Problems; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major Problems.
4/ F - Financial; M = Managerial; T - Technical.



