Document of                   vz    j 
The World Bank                 . ,                   > ' t3"
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2917b-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECUADOR
May 30, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit          =  Sucre (S/)
US$1                   =  S/ 25.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =  0.98 long ton (lg ton)
= 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CONADE    -  National Planning Council
DAC       -  Directorate of Civil Aviation
DGOP      -  General Directorate of Public Works
ENFE      -  State Railway Corporation
ER        -  Economic Return
FEC       -  Foreign Exchange Component
FONADE    -  National Development Fund
FONAPAR   -  National Participation Fund
FONAPRE   -  National Preinvestment Fund
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
JUNAPLAN  -  National Planning Board
MAG       -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOP       -  Ministry of Public Works
PC        -  Provincial Council
RORO      -  roll-on/roll-off
SAE       -  Sociedad Argentina de Estudios, Consultants
SECAP     -  Ecuadoran Capacitation Service
TAME      -  Military Transports
UCCV      -  Feeder Roads Coordination Unit
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
UPCT      -  Transport Planning and Coordination Unit
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
VOC       -  Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD       -  Vehicles per Day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECUADOR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .........                                            1
A.   General ..........................................                I
B.   The Transport System .............................                1
C.   Planning, Coordination and Financing ....            .........    5
D.   Recommended Improvements and Developments .........               6
II.   THE ROAD SUBSECTOR ..................                                   6
A.   The Road Network .................................                6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic    .......             7
C.   The Road Transport Industry ..... ...........                     8
D.   Road Administration .....         .....................           8
E.   Road Planning ......         ..............................      10
F.   Road Expenditures ......          ..........................     11
G.   Road User Taxation ...............................               12
H.   Road Engineering ......          ...........................     14
I.   Road Construction ......          ..........................     15
J.   Road Maintenance .............. . ...................            16
K.   Personnel Training ......          .........................     17
III.   PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE
HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ...................................               17
A.   Past Assistance ..................................               17
B.   Projects Under Way ...............................               18
IV.   THE PROPOSED SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT ....................                20
A.   Project Objectives and General Description    .......            20
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement .......               21
C.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring ..           ...........   24
D.   Project Risks ....................................               27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ecuador in November/December 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. Sergio Miquel
(Engineer), John Sargent (Economist) and Lorne Sonley (Agricultural Economist).
Mr. Giuseppe Morra (Training Specialist) contributed to the preparation of the
project's training component. The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE FEEDER ROADS PROGRAM ..............................         27
A.   Preparation .......      ...............................  27
B.   Agricultural Production in the Project Zone   ......    28
C.   Improvement of about 1,500 km of Secondary and
Feeder Roads in the Provinces of Guayas,
Los Rios and El Oro .....       ......................  29
D.   Maintenance      ................... ...................  31
E.   The Feeder Road Coordination Unit ..        ..............    32
F.   Economic Aspects and Evaluatuon ...a o..............    32
VI.   ROAD MAINTENANCE AND TRAINING .........................    37
A.   General .....        .....................................  37
B.   Preparation and Description of
Maintenance Components .............. .  ...........    37
C.   Economic Evaluation ..............................    38
D.   Training of Personnel ............................    39
VII.  TRANSPORT PLANNING ................                              41
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND ECOMMENDATION ....        ..............    42
TABLES
1.1  -  Estimates of Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic
by Modes (1969-1978) ................................        45
1.2  -  Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode 1970-1977..    46
2.1  -  Highway Network .......................................    47
2.2  -  Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1970-1979) ....        ..............    48
2.3  -  Vehicle Registration by Categories (1964-1978) .... ....    49
2.4  -  Present Status of Secondary and Feeder Roads Management         50
2.5  -  Actual and Proposed Highway Expenditures by MOP
1976-1984 ...........................................        51
2.6  -  Government Road Expenditures and Road User Taxes
1975-1978 ...........................................        52
2.7  -  Road User Taxes According to Type of Vehicle 1977 .....         53
2.8  - Minimum Design Standards for Feeder Roads ....       .........    54
2.9  -  Present MOP Road Maintenance Fleet ....        ................    55
4.1  -  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .o        ..................    56
4.2  -  Schedule of Implementation ............................    57
5.1  -  Agricultural Data for Provinces of Guayas, Los Rios
and El Oro (1974) ...................................    58
5.2  -  Four-Year Secondary and Feeder Roads Improvement
Program .............................................        59
5.3  -  First-Year Secondary and Feeder Roads Improvement
Program in Guayas ..................     . ...............    60
5.4  -  First-Year Secondary and Feeder Roads Improvement
Program in Los Rios and El Oro ......................    61
5.5  -  Feeder Roads Maintenance Program in the Three Provinces         62
5.6  -  Tentative Equipment Procurement List for Feeder Roads
Maintenance .........................................        63
5.7  -  Traffic Projections for Secondary and Feeder Roads  ....    64
5.8  -  Vehicle Operating Costs on Roads in the Provinces
of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro ....        ..................  65
5.9  -  Sample Results of Economic Evaluation ....       .............    66



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
6.1  - MOP's 1981 Road Maintenance Program ....   ...............   67
6.2 - Funding Requirements for the Four-Year Road
Maintenance  Program  .................................  68
6.3 -  entative MOP Road Maintenance Equipment Procurement
List   ................................................  69
6.4 - Maintenance Equipment Overhaul Program ....   ............   70
6.5  - Investments in Workshops and Warehouses ....  ...........   71
6.6 - Targets for Equipment Availability and Utilization  ....   72
6.7  - Highway Network Condition, 1980 ........ . ...............   73
ANNEXES
1.  - Summary of Participation Agreements between MOP and the
Provincial Councils of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro    74
2.  - Organization and Staffing of the Feeder Roads
Coordination  Unit   ...................................  76
3.  - Outline Terms of Reference for Preparation of Further
Feeder  Roads  Projects  ...............................  81
4.  - Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance on
Road  Maintenance  ....................................  86
5.  - Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
the Personnel Training Program ......................   94
6.  - Outline Terms of Reference for Land Transport Planning    109
7.  - Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project  File  ......... ...............................  114
CHARTS
World Bank 21208 - Organizational Chart of MOP
World Bank 21522 - Model Organization Chart of a Provincial Council
MAPS
IBRD 14906 - Four-Year Secondary and Feeder Roads Improvement
Program in the Provinces of Los Rios and El Oro
IBRD 14908 - Four-Year Secondary and Feeder Roads Improvement
Program in the Province of Guayas






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Ecuador's geography and history have been determining factors in
the location of its population and economic activities as well as in the
development of its transport network. Two principal mountain chains, the
western and eastern ranges of the Andes, run from north to south and divide
the country into three distinct regions: the tropical and fertile coastal
region (Costa), the temperate mountain region with fertile valleys (Sierra)
and the tropical Amazon region with largely poor soils (Oriente). Historically,
the population and the economic and transport activities developed separately
in the Sierra and the Costa, with their respective urban centers, Quito and
Guayaquil. The Sierra region, densely settled and provided with linking
trails in pre-Colombian times, was further developed into an economic unit
with an internal road network by the Spanish colonization. The early settlers
of the coastal region, both Indians and Spanish, traveled mostly by sea and by
river and did not develop many inter-connecting trails and roads. Adequate
transport links between the Sierra and the Costa were established much later
and rapidly evolved into the main transport corridors of the country. Only in
recent decades has economic activity begun to spread into the Amazon region.
1.02      Land transport flows along several corridors:  (a) the country's
most important corridor links Quito, the capital city, with Guayaquil, the
main port and industrial center; (b) two north-south corridors extend from the
seacoast and the Colombian border to the Peruvian border -- one following the
central valley of the Andean chains and serving Quito, and the other running
along the Costa, from the port city of Esmeraldas in the north, through
Guayaquil, and further south to Puerto Bolivar; and finally (c) the recently
developed corridor between the Oriente region and Esmeraldas, channeling
mainly crude oil transported by pipeline.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.03      Ecuador's domestic transport is based essentially on roads for
general cargo and passengers, with petroleum products transported by pipeline.
About 75% of all freight movement (ton-km) consists of petroleum products
(Table 1.1). Apart from pipelines and some coastal shipping of petroleum,
road transport accounts for over 95% of total inter-city freight transport and
about 90% of total inter-city public service passenger traffic. The highway
subsector and its administration are discussed in full in Chapter II.
1.04      Given the relatively short hauling distances and the rugged
terrain, road transport is, in general, the most adequate mode for non-
petroleum transport. The country's truck and bus fleet grew rapidly



- 2 -
over the last decade and so did its share of the traffic. High demand and the
absence of strong competition from railroads stimulated development of inter-
city bus operations, which are adequate in terms of price, quantity and
quality of services. The largely unregulated trucking industry competes
actively for traffic.
(ii) Ports and Shipping
1.05      Foreign and coastal shipping is handled through eight maritime
ports with widely varying natural, technical and operational characteristics.
There are three general cargo ports, two petroleum terminals, one specialized
banana port and one fishing port. Guayaquil, which handled about 1.78 mil-
lion tons of cargo in 1978, is the major port, accounting for about 80% of
imports and 40% of non-petroleum exports. Esmeraldas has the major petroleum
exporting terminal, handling about 7 million tons in 1977. Ports and shipping
are administered through the Consejo de la Marina Mercante and the related
Direccion, which report to the Defense Ministry. The Consejo is a broad
policy-making body while the Direccion administers all policy and operational
matters, e.g., it controls port and shipping operations and administers
tariffs. However, these tariffs bear no consistent relation to costs, and an
improved tariff structure is needed. The present level of tariffs, neverthe-
less, provided the ports with considerable financial autonomy--in 1977-1978,
about 40% of port investment was financed by port authority resources. Much
of the remainder comes from domestic loans.
1.06      Under the Second Guayaquil Port Project (Loan 1255-EC, US$33.5
million, May 1976), the Bank is financing construction of additional deep
water berths, a bulk cargo terminal, handling and workshop equipment, dredging
operations and technical assistance for training of managers and staff. The
project started off slowly because of a long delay in effectiveness (caused by
a change in port management after the Loan signing) and delay in the startup
of civil works (caused by a dispute over responsibility for soil stability in
the area of berth construction). Civil works progress is now good. The deep
water berths and the bulk terminal are expected to be completed by end-1980.
The training programs and dredging operations are under way, and, together
with equipment procurement, will also be completed by end-1980. There have
been proposals to construct a modern banana handling facility in Guayaquil
Port, but, thus far, the strong port labor unions have refused to accept
further port mechanization, and less efficient hand-loading continues.
1.07      In addition to its large petroleum export terminal, Esmeraldas is
constructing a roll-on/roll-off (RORO) facility. Manta, the second line
general cargo port, has a good RORO installation, but the port is under-
utilized for part of the year and access is inhibited by urban congestion
problems. Puerto Bolivar, the specialized banana port, is being expanded, but
technical problems have slowed progress.
1.08      The national fleet consists of 12 ships operated by three companies,
two of which specialize in petroleum and bananas while the other deals in
general freight; five other vessels are operated in cooperation with Colombia.
However, the entire Ecuadoran fleet transports only 10% of the country's inter-
national shipping trade because petroleum is carried mainly by foreign tankers.



- 3 -
1.09      With ongoing and already committed projects, port capacity should
not be a significant problem in the near future. New fishing port construc-
tion at Posorja and Manta represents the only major project activity in the
offing. Some further addition to berth capacity at Guayaquil is also under
consideration. However, Ecuador is lagging considerably in containerization
and unitizin6 of cargo. The opportunities and the need for action in these
areas are manifest. Of non-petroleum freight now being handled at the
major ports, almost 40% is suitable for containers while less than 3% is
actually containerized. Cargo suitable for unit loads (pallets) represents
another 40% of total freight, whereas only 2% is now unitized. There is
additional scope for unitized banana shipments. Thus far, the Government and
local shippers have not undertaken the necessary improvements to introduce
this modern and widely accepted technology. Consultant recommendations for
such improvements are currently before the Government.
(iii) Railways
1.10      Ecuadoran railways are administered by the State Railway Corpora-
tion (ENFE) created in 1946. ENFE is an autonomous state enterprise under
the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) (Chart I).
The railway network has a total length of 971 km, but the only line with
traffic of any importance is the Quito-Guayaquil route (446 km). The railways
are run down and dilapidated. Sleepers and rails are in poor condition (only
10% of track has adequate ballast), and the communications system is practi-
cally non-existent. Rolling stock is antiquated and unsafe, particularly given
the narrow gauge (3'6"), steep grades (often 5-1/2%) and frequent tight
curves. Steam locomotives are still used extensively. Like many railways,
the Ecuadoran system is highly overstaffed in relation to its traffic and
level of service. However, the 1979 employment level of about 2,600 is a
substantial improvement, achieved by attrition, over the 1977 level of 3,050.
Among these staff, there is only one professional engineer, who is in a top
management position. Training is practically non-existent. The railway has a
complex and cumbersome administrative structure with about 20 departments, but
has no departments of planning, statistics or commercial operations.
1.11      Competition from roads and neglect of rail infrastructure have
resulted in steadily declining traffic and a deteriorating financial position.
Freight traffic declined from 82 million ton-km in 1966 to 48 million
ton-km in 1974 (Table 1.1). Over the next three years, a further dramatic
decline to 29 million ton-km occurred by 1978; less than 200,000 tons were
handled in that year. This tonnage represented less than 2% of total inter-
city freight transport, excluding pipelines. Similarly, passenger traffic
dropped from 78 million pass-km in 1966 to 54 million pass-km in 1978. Finan-
cial losses have been increasing, but not dramatically. From US$4 million in
1963, the deficit rose to US$5.3 million in 1974 and, in 1978, was about
US$6.5 million equivalent. Since freight tariffs remained unchanged from 1961
to 1977, over which time costs rose at least three-and-a-half times, it is
surprising that the losses have not been greater. Passenger tariffs remain
far below long-run marginal costs.
1.12      Recent administrations have shown no inclination to close or to
redimension the railway system, but also have not been willing to commit
funds to maintain or improve it. The 1973-1977 rail investment plan



proposed US$12.6 million equivalent (1972 prices) for railways, but, over
the period, only US$3.5 million equivalent was actually spent, and this
amount went largely to maintenance; virtually no new investment occurred.
In economic terms, the most obvious policy would be to close the railway
completely. However, the rail network does, at present, provide the only form
of access to many isolated mountain communities. Also, the Guayaquil-Quito
route has a worldwide tourist reputation for its scenic attractions, including
a spectacular ascent of the Andes. Therefore, if the present through-trip
passenger fares (most locals make short trips) were substantially increased
from their present low level for tourists, and, if track and motorized railcars
could be maintained adequately, a useful role for the railway could be estab-
lished at a reasonable financial cost to the Government. The new national
development plan does, however, propose major rail investments, and, there-
fore agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government would
not consider such investments without prior adequate economic assessment
(para 7.02).
(iv) Aviation
1.13       Given the geographical diversity of Ecuador and the frequent lack of
good land transport links between major developing zones, air transport has
played a major role and will continue to do so. Aviation is essentially under
the control of the Ministry of Defense. The Directorate of Civil Aviation
(DAC) has authority over air traffic operations, regulation and tariffs, while
individual airports are controlled by separate managers reporting to the
National Council of Civil Aviation. The growth of civil air traffic has been
quite rapid. International traffic through the two international airports
doubled over the period 1972-1977 to about 400,000 passengers p.a. The growth
of domestic traffic using the total of 34 airports and strips has slowed
recently with the rapid improvement of inter-city road links, but nevertheless
reached about 800,000 passengers in 1977. Ecuador has four major airlines:
Government-owned Ecuatoriana, providing international services with its three
Boeing 707s and three 727-720s, and three domestic carriers SAN, SAETA and
Military Transports (TAME), flying about 15 Caravelles, Viscounts and Electras.
The latter concentrate on the Quito-Guayaquil-Cuenca triangle, which accounts
for about 65% of all domestic passenger trips. Quito and Guayaquil interna-
tional airports are by far the most important. Quito airport is open only to
daylight international traffic because of visibility problems, causing limita-
tion in scheduling, while Guayaquil's runway is limited by the adjacent river.
Feasibility studies for relocating the in-town Quito airport and upgrading the
Guayaquil facility have been completed, but the Government has not given
priority to proceeding with detailed design studies since present capacity is
generally adequate. The principal needs are greater segregation from general
urban traffic of the accesses to both international airports, upgraded naviga-
tional systems at Quito to facilitate night traffic and some improvements at
provincial airports.
(v) Pipelines
1.14       Transport by pipeline is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Natural Resources. A relatively old pipeline for refined petroleum products
extends from Duran, close to Guayaquil, to Quito (358 km), carrying an annual
volume of about 180,000 tons of various products, mainly premium gasoline.
A crude oil pipeline, built from 1970 to 1972, extends from the Oriente oil
fields at Lago Agrio to the Pacific port of Balao, near Esmeraldas (503 km),



- 5 -
channeling an annual volume of over 10 million tons. Smaller feeder lines
connect this pipeline at Lago Agrio with other oil fields, such as Shushufindi
(16 km) and Sacha (52 km).  With financial assistance from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) under a November 1976 loan, a new refined-products
pipeline is being built from Esmeraldas to Quito (260 km). Under the same
loan, a liquified petroleum gas (LPG) pipeline is to be built `rom Shushufindi
to Quito (324 km). There is also a proposal to build a pipeline for petroleum
derivatives from the Libertad refinery to Guayaquil (120 km), and design work
is under way.
C.   Planning, Coordination and Financing
1.15      Transport planning, policy and administration are still fragmented
among six Ministries, including the former macro-planning body, the National
Planning Board (JUNAPLAN), which has now been absorbed into the National
Planning Council (CONADE), and various regional and local authorities. However,
the role of each mode is clearly defined and executed, and the fragmentation
has not resulted in major investment misallocations or inefficiencies. Never-
theless, better intermodal coordination is needed to address such problems as
improving road access to major ports. The institutions dealing with transport
at the levels of provinces, municipalities and state enterprises are largely
unregulated by any centralized setting of priorities or goals. Under the
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC, US$10.5 million, Mlay 1976), the creation
of a Transport Planning and Coordination Unit (UPCT) within MOP was undertaken
and technical assistance was provided. This office has assumed responsibility
in matters pertaining to land transport but has still not fully assumed its
role with respect to the other modes. Planning and administration in the sea
and air transport modes remain with the Defense Ministry. Under the Agreement
for Loan 1231-EC, this integrated planning was to be achieved by 1978. The
Government has now agreed to ensure the cooperation of sea and air transport
authorities through CONADE (para 7.02). In the meantime, UPCT is advancing in
the planning studies for the land transport mode and expects to have a draft
ten-year plan prepared by mid-1980.
1.16      Government investment in transport infrastructure is made through
the various modal agencies. Because of the lack of uniform procedures for
budgetary and financial statements, it is difficult to establish an
accurate picture of total capital investment in the sector. An attempt
has been made, however, to reconstruct total sectoral expenditures, including
investments, in Table 1.2. The total investment for 1977, which reached
about US$140 million equivalent, appears to have been sustained through 1979,
but no significant real increases are expected or warranted over the next
five years.
1.17      Since 1973, Government expenditures have been stimulated by the
increasing revenues from petroleum exports, which affected capital invest-
ments as well. As a proportion of total national Government expenditures,
transport and communications represented about 15% over 1970-1977, while the
sector's share of public investment over the period 1973-1977 averaged 32%.
The National Development Fund (FONADE) (now Banco Ecuatoriano de Desarrollo)
has received a substantial portion of revenues from oil exports for financing
high priority development projects, whereas the National Preinvestment Fund
(FONAPRE) was set up in 1973 to finance the preparation of such projects. The



work of FONAPRE is being supported by the Bank through Loan S-006-EC (US$11
million, 1978). Improvement in project preparation capacity is an important
prerequisite to sustain the current pace of public investments. While some
progress has been made, further efforts will be required by the new administra-
tion if large scale international financing is to be obtained.
D.   Recommended Improvements and Developments
1.18      Planning the future of Ecuador's transport sector, chief respon-
sibility for which resides with CONADE and UPCT, would depend upon their
ability to identify clearly to the new Government priority areas for policy
changes and investment needs, and recommending strategies addressing these
priority needs, among which the following can readily be recognized:
(a) improvement of the existing road network by continued rehabilitation and
upgrading of road maintenance, the objective being to pursue and consolidate
the considerable advances made over the last five years; (b) expansion of
the road network, particularly the secondary and feeder road system;
(c) improvement of seaport capacity and maritime shipping, definition of the
future role of the railways and improvement of air transport services; and
(d) adoption of an adequate pricing and taxation policy for the domestic
use of motor fuels, which are priced far below international levels. The
latter is clearly the most important immediate issue now facing not only
transport planning but national economic policy as well, in view of the
implications of the present pricing system for Government finances, resource
allocation and crude oil production.
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.   The Road Network
2.01      Road development in Ecuador has been strongly influenced by
geographic conditions, as well as by population distribution and migration.
These governing factors differ widely among the three major regions of the
country: the Costa, the Sierra and the Oriente (para 1.01). The first roads
were built to serve the temperate, densely populated Sierra region, and only
much later were links established with the coast at the traditional port of
Guayaquil. More recent progress of road development in the Costa region
spread from Quito to the west and from Guayaquil to the north and south,
completing, in the last decade, a basic network that serves the Sierra and the
Costa regions adequately, except in the northern part of the country. Exten-
sion of the road network into the sparsely settled Oriente region has been
much slower and reaches, at present, only the eastern foothills of the Andes
and the oil rich northern section of the Amazonian Basin.
2.02      In 1979, the network reached a total length of 33,800 km, of which
13% are paved, 38% are gravel and 49% are earth roads (Table 2.1, Part A).
Although the network is not clearly classified in primary, secondary and
tertiary roads, the main network under the direct responsibility of MOP
consists of about 8,400 km of trunk roads connecting the main production
centers and linking them with Colombia to the north and Peru to the south.



- 7 -
About 50% of these trunk roads are paved, and slightly less than 50% are
gravel surfaced. Responsibilities for the remaining 25,400 km of roads--
1% paved, 34% gravel and 65% earth--is divided among local governments and
national and regional agencies, with the occasional assistance of MOP.
Investment and maintenance planning have been hampered by insufficient data
regarding tne highway network. To correct this deficiency, it was agreed
during negotiations that MOP would: (a) complete, by December 31, 1980, the
detailed inventory of the public roads under MIOP's jurisdiction currently
being carried out; (b) carry out, under the project and not later December 31,
1981, a detailed inventory of other public roads; and (c) after completion of
such inventories and of a countrywide traffic survey (para 2.05), reclassify,
by June 30, 1982, Ecuador's road network into primary, secondary and tertiary
roads.
2.03      Between 1970 and 1979, the total length of paved and gravel roads
grew by 5% annually (Table 2.1, Part B); 1,600 km of paved roads, 4,600 km of
gravel roads and 5,400 km of earth roads were added to the road system. In
addition, about 800 km of existing primary paved roads were improved in the
years 1976-1978, and a further 200 km of improvements are currently under way.
This effort has notably increased the quality and capacity of the main network,
but some of the roads have been improved to standards higher than those
required in the medium term. However, other existing paved roads need widening
and strengthening, or pavement rehabilitation. Many gravel roads need widening,
resurfacing with engineered gravel and drainage improvement. Earth roads are
mostly of poor standard and are usable only during the dry season.
2.04      The last ten years have been a period of rapid development and
relatively high level of expenditure for the highway subsector. Although the
Government plans to pursue the development of road infrastructure, road
planners would, in the future, have to manage a fairly complex network with
more stringent funding constraints than in the past. They would have to expand
rapidly the construction and improvement of feeder and secondary roads to
support agricultural production and to provide basic services to rural communi-
ties. Ecuador's road program would also have to consolidate and expand
advances made in maintenance. Another important element of future road
programs would be to pursue the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing roads.
Finally, the road program would have to meet the requirements for completion
of major projects now under way and provide for construction of selected new
links to improve inter-regional communications, especially with the Oriente
and with the northern part of the Costa area. The investment plan now under
preparation (para 1.15) would provide a basis to develop a balanced road
program taking into account anticipated funding levels.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.05      A partial 1976 survey indicated average traffic on paved roads of
around 1,500 vehicles per day (VPD), and 350 VPD on gravel roads. Some 1977
counts on six main highways found traffic levels of 3,000-6,000 VPD. The
best estimate of the composition of traffic nationwide is about 60% light
vehicles, 25% trucks and 15% buses. Overall traffic growth can also be
estimated best through annual growth of vehicle fuel consumption (Table 2.2)
which has accelerated rapidly from the 1965-1974 average of about 10% p.a. to
almost 20% p.a. over the 1975-1979 period. MOP is still in the process of
developing systematic traffic counting procedures as would be necessary to



- 8 -
support improved planning of investments as well as maintenance. MOP has
initiated the implementation of a countrywide counting program on main roads
with recently purchased (under Loan 1231-EC) automatic traffic counters
and by manual counting to provide vehicle composition data. At the time of
negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would, by December 31, 1980,
establish procedures satisfactory to the Bank to monitor traffic on public
roads under MOP's jurisdiction and that it would, by December 31, 1981,
complete a countrywide traffic survey and furnish the results of such survey
to the Bank.
2.06      Estimates of vehicle registration are shown in Table 2.3.  The fleet
doubled over the period 1975-1978, with a growth rate over the last decade
of about 13% p.a. with light vehicles, principally the more lightly taxed
pickups, registering the highest growth. Because of this rapid growth of
the fleet, its average age has declined rapidly, from 7.7 years in 1967 to six
years in 1975 and probaby well under five years presently.
C.   The Road Transport Industry
2.07      Road transport is regulated and administered by a variety of
Government agencies, including MOP, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare,
and the Interior Ministry, the latter being responsible for road transport
regulation. Regulations concerning trucking are complex. However, since the
Government has never acted with full force to implement them, trucking is
largely unregulated. The great majority of trucks are single-owner-operated,
with only about 5% of trucks operated by companies or cooperatives. Competi-
tion in the trucking industry is strong, and freight rates often do not fully
cover capital replacement costs. Passenger transport is much more regulated
than freight in regard to entry to the industry, tariffs, routes and schedules.
Inter-city and rural bus services are adequate, as are those of the main cities,
Quito and Guayaquil. Minibuses are used for some inter-city travel, and service
permits are readily available.
2.08      The law governing the weight and dimensions of vehicles permitted to
use highways specifies 11 metric tons as the maximum load for single axle, which
is satisfactory. The available evidence suggests that overloading of trucks,
which can seriously damage highways, is not a major problem in Ecuador. A survey
conducted by UPCT in November 1979 at four of the five weighing stations found
about 12% of the vehicles to be overweight. Of these vehicles, the great majority
were less than 15% over the legal limit. However, the validity of this survey
is suspect, largely because of the failure of many heavy vehicles to participate
and the inherent difficulties in supervising weighbridge operators. The work
program of UPCT over the period would include provision for collection of more
reliable data on this matter (para 7.03). The loan covenant relating to
proper enforcement of vehicle weight control included in the two previous
loans was repeated and, in addition, the Government confirmed that it would
periodically monitor the effectiveness of its enforcement program.
D.   Road Administration
2.09      According to Article 2 of the Highway Law (Law No. 1351 of 1964),
MOP has control of all public roads and has to approve all construction
projects. MOP plays a central role in all aspects of road infrastructure; it
is directly responsible for about 8,400 km of trunk roads, of which about 7,400
are regularly maintained. The rest, together with some important secondary



- 9 -
and feeder roads not included under the trunk network, receive only occasional
maintenance carried out by local authorities or other government agencies.
Provincial and, to a lesser extent, municipal authorities are nominally
responsible for administration and maintenance of roads in their own jurisdic-
tion. In fact, except for the strongest provinces, they do little, mostly
local improvements and no maintenance. A 1974 regulation enabaed the General
Directorate of Public Works to establish Road Committees (Comites Viales) to
undertake joint projects with the municipalities. The Committees were author-
ized to carry out improvement and maintenance works and to levy tolls. In
addition to MOP and local governments, a number of development agencies at
the central and at the regional levels have undertaken secondary and feeder
road construction to serve the requirements of specific programs.  Finally,
private roads have been built in the Oriente to support petroleum exploration
and production. More details are given below about the capacity of provincial
authorities, while Table 2.4 provides a synopsis of the various authorities
involved in road development.
2.10      The weakness of MOP in planning, the traditional independence of
local governments and the general lack of institutional coordination nave
created a rather confused situation for secondary and feeder roads. Until
1974, there was no coordination between MOP and the Provincial Councils (PCs)
(para 2.12). The growing demand for feeder roads stressed the need for
national planning, and MOP started slowly to assume a role in this field,
reaching limited agreements with some PCs for planning, financing and construc-
tion of specific two-year programs of secondary and feeder roads. Over the
four years 1976-1979, these programs averaged an annual level of S/ 250
million (Table 2.4).  There is still very little coordination between MOP and
the municipal authorities; the Road Committees established for the purpose have
not been effective. An adequate degree of coordination has been established
so far between MOP and some regional development organizations (Table 2.4);
however, somewhat paradoxically, there is little coordination between MOP and
other central government agencies, in particular those attached to the Ministry
of Agriculture (MAG) (Table 2.4). The proposed project would assist in
improving administration and maintenance of secondary and feeder roads in the
three project provinces and would lay a basis for extending these improvements
countrywide (para 5.14).
2.11      MOP comprises the General Directorate of Public Works (DGOP) in
charge of design, construction and maintenance of highways and government
buildings and three Directorates responsible for Administration, Finances and
Transport Planning (Chart I). DGOP currently comprises four Directorates
for programing, engineering, construction and maintenance. MOP staff totals
about 4,200, of which DGOP constitutes about 85%; there is no noticeable
overstaffing. Given the rigorous restrictions on expansion of civil service
establishments, there is little risk that MOP staff would expand beyond the
level required to meet its growing responsibilities. Qualified engineers and
technical staff are not sufficient in number either in Quito or the districts,
largely because of the low salary scale. This problem, accentuated since the
early 1970s when petroleum production began to create well paid jobs in the
private sector, has been partially alleviated, since 1978, through on-the-job
training and direct support provided by the technical assistance included in
the Fourth Highway Project (para 2.37).



- 10 -
2.12      The Provincial Councils (Consejos Provinciales, PCs) of the 20 prov-
inces (five in the Costa, ten mainly in the Sierra, four in the Oriente
regions and one for the Galapagos Islands) take care of many secondary and
most feeder roads within their jurisdictions. These PCs were established by
the Constitution of 1945 as independent authorities, whose functions are the
maintenance and development of culture, education, communications and other
public services of provincial interest. The president and the other members
of the PCs are elected officers. The PCs have their own budgets with funds
received in part from the Central Government and in part collected directly
from the taxpayers of the province. The typical organization of the PCs is
shown in Chart II and normally includes a road section within the technical
department. Capacity in road administration varies widely from a relatively
high level in Guayas and Pichincha to almost non-existence in less developed
provinces. The situation in the three provinces included in the proposed
project is the following:
(a) Guayas has a competent road department including an engineering,
construction and maintenance section with a total of 12 engineers.
It has an extensive, though aged, equipment fleet and minimal
workshop facilities. Most road engineering and construction are done
by contract; minor road improvements and main roads maintenance are
performed by force account. The quality of work is generally
satisfactory; however, it could be enhanced substantially through
technical assistance and training. Road maintenance is insufficient;
only 20% of the provincial network, totaling 2,800 km, receives
regular maintenance.
(b)  Los Rios, with a network of 1,900 km, is typical of the medium
competence level provinces; it has only one professional road
engineer, one assistant engineer and a few technicians, who handle
the modest road engineering, construction and improvement works.
The equipment fleet is rudimentary, and no regular road maintenance
is performed.
(c) El Oro is one of the provinces with the least highway management
capability. It does not have any road engineer or technician.
MOP's regional engineer acts as the Council's road engineer,
supervising whatever work is done. Its network of 1,000 km
is in a precarious condition.
E.   Road Planning
2.13      Historically, road investment in Ecuador has not been subjected
to a rigorous planning process. However, following the considerable expansion
of the road network under the impetus of the oil sector after 1967, it became
apparent to the Government that more rational planning of transport infrastruc-
ture to support national development was required. Under the consortium
highway project (para 3.03), consultants prepared the 1974 Highway Master
Plan, which provided the basis for a number of important road investments.
This one-time effort did not address the need to develop, within MOP, the
capacity to conduct planning on a continuing basis. This planning capacity
is one of the prime objectives of the Fourth Highway Project, which provided
for the establishment of UPCT (para 1.15). UPCT, assisted by consultants,



- 11 -
initiated, by early 1978, the preparation of a national highway investment
plan for the medium (1980-1984) and long term (1985-1994). This plan, of
which preliminary project priorities have already been produced, will be
available in final form for consideration by the Government, and comment by
the Bank, by mid-1980. In addition to the investment plan, UPCT, assisted
by the consuitants, has also conducted studies of the efficiency of vehicle
weighing stations, cargo transport and problems of urban road transport.
2.14      Mainly because of the late availability of counterparts, the transfer
of technology under the consultants' contract, which concludes in mid-1980, has
not been sufficient, particularly in the fields of economics and statistics.
Counterpart staffing is at present, however, generally satisfactory. Further,
because of past lack of cooperation within the Government, some tasks, such as
collection of reliable traffic and vehicle fleet data, have not been undertaken.
With the acceptance of planning in the highway subsector, and in transport
generally, now more firmly implanted, the proposed project includes a component
for financing a further two years of consultant assistance to UPCT for land
transport planning (Chapter VII).
2.15      No coordinated planning for secondary and feeder roads has been
attempted so far (para 2.10). The various agencies involved merely prepare
lists of required roads, without developing sound criteria for road investment
and performing economic evaluations, or perform limited planning for particular
sectoral projects. The preparation of the proposed project has supported
Ecuador's first effort to improve planning of secondary and feeder roads.
This long term objective will be pursued under the project (para 5.14).
F.   Road Expenditures
2.16      DGOP expenditures for general highway administration, for the main
network and for part of the secondary and feeder roads network are financed
through the MOP budget, mostly through central treasury allocations. Annual
DGOP expenditures from 1976 to 1979 and projected expenditures from 1980 to
1984 are shown in Table 2.5. The level of nominal total expenditures increased
by 56% from 1976 to 1979 (about 12% in real terms) and reached a total value
of about US$135 million equivalent in that year, representing an annual growth
rate of 16% in current values. A further increase of 15% per annum in current
values, implying little real growth, has been estimated for the period 1979 to
1984. Recurrent expenditures, comprising administration and highway mainte-
nance, are financed exclusively through the MOP budget and represent about 21%
of total MOP highway expenditures from 1976 to 1979. Administrative expendi-
tures have progressed at an acceptable rate, suggesting that MOP was able to
step up its programs without excessive administrative buildup. Maintenance
expenditures have also increased regularly over the years; further increases
would be needed to meet growing requirements. Capital expenditures for 1976
to 1979, representing about 79% of total MOP highway expenditures, have
steadily increased in real terms throughout the years. The interim highway
program prepared by the Government indicates an intention to sustain a rather
high level of highway expenditures. In view of the growing complexity of the
requirements, and the concern for fiscal restrictions, rigorous planning will
be required to achieve a sound balance between maintenance/rehabilitation and
feeder and primary road improvements. Of particular importance will be
the coordination between physical planning and financial programing.



- 12 -
2.17      Capital investments are financed from the following sources:  national
budget (51%), special funds from the Defense Ministry for engineering and con-
struction of roads in the south and southeast (25%); FONADE, for engineering
and construction of feeder roads (15%); FONAPRE, with UNDP participation, for
engineering and feasibility studies of main highway projects (1%); domestic
loans (3%); and external loans, IDB and the Bank (5%). Ecuador would continue
to rely mostly on its own resources for road expenditures, with possible
occasional support from IDB and the Bank, for selected undertakings and
institutional improvements.
2.18      Agencies involved in feeder road administration get needed
financing through MOP and from a variety of other sources (Table 2.4). The
Ministry of Finance directly funds the local government and some of the
regional development organizations through the National Participation Fund
(FONAPAR) and FONADE. FONAPRE finances some feeder roads engineering studies.
Most of the central government and the regional development organizations draw
funds from their own budgets and from international assistance programs (World
Food Program and OAS funds). Finally, some agencies resort to international
financing through bilateral agreements and loans by private banks (Table 2.4).
A unit has recently been established in the Ministry of Finance to administer
and coordinate foreign financing activities. The proposed project would
attempt to achieve a rationalization of feeder roads expenditures (para 5.13).
G.   Road User Taxation
2.19      The structure of road user taxation in Ecuador is unusual in that
very little taxation is levied on fuel, and a very high proportion of total
road user taxation derives from vehicle import duties. However, as can be seen
in Table 2.6, this taxation more than covered the cost of road maintenance and
administration over the period 1975-1978, though covering only an average of
56% of the cost of road construction.
2.20      Import duties on vehicles, spare parts and tires represent about
50% of total taxes paid by road users. Cars pay almost 200% import duty plus
a local sales tax while pickups (3/4- to 2-ton) pay 50% to 100%. Buses pay
70% duty, but medium and heavy trucks are relatively favored, paying only 15%
to 30% import tax. Annual license fees are imposed by various levels of
Government, but are quite small and difficult to collect. Several provinces
have established toll collection systems on some of their main roads, but fees
are insignificant and the collection costs relatively high.
2.21      Road users also pay taxes on gasoline and diesel oil (SI 1.88/gallon 1/
and S/ 1.14/gallon, 2/ respectively). Retail prices of petroleum products
(presently US$0.18/gallon) have been almost unchanged since 1959 and rank
among the lowest in the world. The local cost of petroleum products, including
(a) the cost of refining, transporting and distributing petroleum products,
1/   US$0.08 equivalent.
2/   US$0.05 equivalent.



- 13 -
and (b) consideration of the fact that Ecuador imports 10% of its needs, is
around US$0.36/gallon. Thus, gasoline and diesel oil users receive financial
subsidies of about US$0.18/gallon from other sectors of the economy. Analysis
carried out for 1977 (Table 2.7) suggests that positive road user taxes are
levied only on cars and pickups, while trucks and buses are being heavily
subsidized.
2.22      The Government of Ecuador is not following a clear and comprehensive
policy on road user taxes. The major objective, as in most countries, is not
to charge for the use of roads, but to raise general revenue funds for the
treasury without placing an unacceptable share of the burden on freight and
public passenger transport. The road user tax system described above dictates
that users pay heavy fixed taxes not related to their level of road use and
very low taxes variant with the consumption of transport services. However,
except for rapid growth in the pickup fleet (partly caused by the low import
duty relative to car), there is no clear evidence that the road transport
sector has been seriously distorted by the road user tax system or low prices
for petroleum products.
2.23      While a price distortion exists in the petroleum sector in Ecuador,
it does not impinge directly on the viability and appropriateness of the
proposed project, concentrating as it does on secondary and feeder road
improvements in highly productive agricultural areas, strengthening of road
maintenance, institutional development and training. The Government, which
inherited the low price structure when it came to power in August 1979, is
aware of the importance of raising domestic prices. In this regard, on
January 1, 1980, the Government tripled fuel prices for shipping and increased
prices for jet fuel by about 75% and 60% for foreign and domestic carriers,
respectively. It is also considering major increases in gasoline prices to
levels which would approximately cover the financial cost of producing,
transporting and retailing it, thus eliminating the financial subsidy cur-
rently received by gasoline consumers. The Bank has conveyed to the Govern-
ment its view that energy prices should gradually be raised to internationally
comparable levels in order to eliminate the investment distortions which
otherwise are bound to persist.
2.24.     The Government recognizes the need to improve information on
the various sources of taxes. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
that, by June 30, 1981, it would carry out, through UPCT, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study of specific aspects of road user
taxes in order to recommend improvements, would promptly furnish a copy of
such study to the Bank and would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment thereon. This study would, in particular, include a review of vehicle
import duties and sales taxes, revision of license fees in relation to size
and fuel consumption of vehicles and improvement of the present system of
vehicle registration to provide more reliable data on the fleet in active use.



- 14 -
H.   Road Engineering
2.25      Responsibility for the engineering of the main roads and of secondary
and feeder roads financed through MOP's budget rests with DGOP's Directorate of
Engineering, which has four departments: highway engineering, structural
engineering, geotechnics, and feasibility studies. Both the highway engineer-
ing and the geotechnics departments have field offices in the seven MOP
administrative zones. The Directorate's staff performs in-house only the
engineering of a few minor roads or special studies. Most engineering work is
contracted with local consultants (para 2.28) under the supervision of DGOP.
The technical assistance provided under the Fourth Highway Project by consul-
tants Sociedad Argentina de Estudios (SAE) has substantially strengthened the
Directorate of Engineering by: (a) enhancing the capability of the technical
personnel; (b) widening the office for geotechnical studies into an independent
department which directly performs studies and supervises contracts for
geological surveys and site and laboratory investigations; and (c) creation of
and provision for technical assistance to a feasibility studies department,
which includes a section for traffic studies. This department is preparing an
inventory of main roads in Ecuador. The Directorate of Engineering will be
primarily responsible for preparing the new road classification (para 2.02).
2.26      Design standards for main and secondary roads were prepared by
US consultants TAMS under the consortium highway project (para 3.03) and were
published in 1976. They are generally satisfactory. Design standards for
feeder roads were reviewed by consultant ISRATECVIA (Israel/Ecuador) under
the Fifth Highway Project. MOP has formally approved the new standards recom-
mended by the consultants, shown in Table 2.8, which are satisfactory to the
Bank and will be used for the design of roads under the proposed project.
2.27      According to the Highway Law, MOP should approve all road design
performed by other agencies. In reality, MOP supervises only the road engi-
neering financed through its own budget and that performed by a few other
agencies complying with the law. As shown in Table 2.4, the other agencies
involved in feeder roads rely principally on consultants for engineering.
However, some use their own staff and resort to engineering during construc-
tion. As a result, many roads designed by independent agencies do not comply
with MOP's design standards. This problem will be addressed by enforcement
of the law by MOP (para 5.13).
2.28      Increased demand for professional engineering services in highways
and other sectors has contributed to a rapid development of the local consult-
ing industry. Participation of foreign firms, independently or in joint
ventures, has almost completely disappeared as local firms have become price
competitive. A considerable number of local consulting firms or of groups of
engineers specialized in highway engineering are registered with MOP. Quality
of works has been weak in soil studies, structural design and programing. The
concept of selecting and designing projects on the basis of economic evaluation
has not yet gained full acceptance outside externally supported programs:
there are several instances of recent road projects which have been somewhat
overdesigned. Participation of MOP's and the consultants' staff in 20 courses
on diversified subjects related to engineering and feasibility studies,
offered by the technical assistance under the Fourth Highway Project has,
however, strengthened professional capability.



- 15 -
I.   Road Construction
2.29      Construction of the main roads and of secondary and feeder roads
financed through the MOP budget is managed by DGOP's Directorate of Construc-
tion, which is divided into two departments, one responsible for highways and
the other fur buildings. DGOP's Highway Construction Department is organized
in seven zones, each being managed by an administrative engineer in Quito
and a resident engineer in the field. Each zone is in charge of the super-
vision of several major and smaller projects. The technical capability of the
supervision personnel has been substantially improved by the technical assis-
tance received under the Fourth Highway Project (para 3.05). MOP intends
to carry out some of the consultants' (SAE) recommendations to further enhance
the effectiveness of supervision, mainly to: (a) improve workload distribution
among the different supervision teams (total contract value supervised by
individual teams varies from 3 to 589 million sucres); and (b) streamline the
organization of the construction department and reduce the incidence of over-
lapping reporting requirements.
2.30      Road construction activities in Ecuador are carried out in various
ways, involving varying degrees of MOP participation and producing varying
results:
(a)  All main highway construction and a minor part of the construction
of secondary and feeder roads financed by MOP are executed by
contracts let by public bidding and supervised by MOP; in general,
the quality of these works is adequate;
(b)  Most secondary and feeder roads financed by MOP are constructed by
the PCs, either through contracts or by force account, and by
regional authority force account; MOP's loose supervision of
these works often results in defective execution;
(c)  Some road construction in the Amazonas region is contracted by
MOP to the Army Corps of Engineers; results have been uneven;
and, finally,
(d)  Construction of all secondary and feeder roads not financed by
MOP is handled by a great number of independent organizations
(Table 2.4), some of them using contractors, but most by force
account of the corresponding agency; the quality of these works
has generally been poor.
2.31      The study performed by consultants SAE in 1979 (para 3.05) noted
a strengthening of the Ecuadoran construction industry during the last five
years, paralleling increased demand. As mentioned earlier, MOP highway
construction investment more than doubled from 1976 to 1979 (Table 2.5).
Local firms were able to secure all contracts awarded through international
competitive bidding (ICB). MOP's unofficial register includes about 120 firms,
50 of which accounted for 98% of works over the period 1976-1978. All big
and some medium firms have substantial and diversified equipment fleets.
Former weaknesses in equipment management and preventive maintenance are being
overcome mainly because of the technical assistance received under the Fourth
Highway Project. General management of the construction firms has been im-
proved since the early seventies and was further enhanced by technical assis-
tance received under Loan 1231-EC.



- 16 -
J.   Road Maintenance
2.32      MOP's highway maintenance works are managed by DGOP's Maintenance
Directorate, comprising three departments in Quito (Maintenance and Improve-
ments, Operations, and Equipment) and seven field divisions. The Directorate's
budgetary allocations increased four-fold in nominal terms from 1971 to 1975
and almost doubled from 1976 to 1979. As a consequence, the quantity and
quality of the maintenance work executed by MOP has been substantially improved
in the last five years. However, MOP maintains only 7,400 km representing
about 22% of the total network (70% of paved, 29% of gravel and 4% of earth
roads), and the remaining 78% of the network receives virtually no maintenance,
except limited work executed by some PCs and by some agencies involved in
secondary and feeder roads. The maintenance management system developed
under the Fourth Highway Project, with the assistance of consultants Roy
Jorgensen and Associates (USA), has become effective in a pilot division and
is being introduced to the other divisions.
2.33      MOP has a road maintenance equipment fleet of about 900 units
(Table 2.9). The average age of about five years is rather low because of the
impact of the 1978 procurement of 340 Brazilian units, mostly dump trucks,
motorgraders, tractors and front-end loaders financed by a US$20 million
bilateral loan. According to consultants Jorgensen estimates, about 50% of
the older units are in good condition, 20% need minor repair, 14% require
major overhaul and about 16% should be scrapped. Despite the relatively low
average age and generally satisfactory condition of the fleet, availability is
estimated at only 60% because of inadequacy of workshop and warehouses and
shortcomings in supply of spare parts. Utilization of available equipment is
about 50%, mainly due to the extended rainy season and inadequate field
organization. Future acquisition under the project would be combined with
measures to improve productivity (para 6.05).
2.34      Efficiency of road maintenance is curtailed by a shortage of trained
engineers, supervisors and foremen. Information on maintenance operations
cost is not readily available except for the pilot division that received
technical assistance under the Fourth Highway Project. Available estimates of
the cost of MOP's maintenance operations appear extremely high, more than
double typical costs in other Latin American countries, mainly due to: (a) low
efficiency of equipment and manpower because of the above-mentioned factors;
and (b) inadequate accounting (many improvement works, wages of all MOP
drivers and other unrelated items are accounted as maintenance expenditures).
Under the proposed project, MOP would improve its accounting procedures
(para 6.02). There is an obvious need for an additional training effort, for
construction of warehouses and workshops, for purchase of workshop tools, for
acquisition of selective additional maintenance equipment, and for establishing
a satisfactory cost accounting system. Furthermore, a substantial institution-
building effort is needed to expand the country's road maintenance capability
to include at least part of the 78% of the network receiving no regular
maintenance. The proposed project would address these problems both for the
main network and for feeder roads in the three pilot provinces. The provinces
have no equipment support capability to speak of, even the best organized
ones. Therefore, the equipment provided under the project for maintenance of
provincial roads will initially be managed by MOP.



- 17 -
K.   Personnel Training
2.35      Training of MOP administrative and technical personnel has been
organized since 1974 by the Department of Publications and Training of DGOP's
Planning Directorate, which consists of only one senior staff member and
clerical personnel. The actual training effort has been accomplished mostly
using the facilities and instructors of other organizations and, to a large
extent, it has not been highway specific. Administrative courses were carried
out under bilateral agreements with other government and private agencies,
while engineering courses were offered mostly under agreements with the
universities. Training of operators and mechanics fell under the responsi-
bility of a government body, SECAP (Ecuadoran Capacitation Service). An
annual average of about 200 staff members have received some degree of training
under these different arrangements.
2.36      A considerable additional training effort has been carried out
since early 1978 by the four technical assistance programs (para 3.04) under
the Fourth Highway Project, through courses offered to MOP staff, private
professionals and graduate students. The transfer of technical know-how and
experience through on-the-job training has been quite satisfactory in highway
engineering, in feasibility studies and in highway maintenance. In transport
planning, it suffered for a long time from the problem of lack of continuity
in counterpart staff. Among the different course programs offered, the most
successful has been the one related to Engineering and Feasibility Studies
carried out by SAE, in which 22 courses with a total of 350 class-hours had
been offered up to the end of 1979, with over 600 attendees.  SAE's second
training program on highway construction has been equally satisfactory.  Six
courses were offered in Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca, totaling 90 class-hours
and 300 trainees.   All SAE courses have been well received, and an excellent
textbook has been prepared for each one. Training in highway maintenance
provided by Roy Jorgensen and Associates has reached only a preliminary level:
written and audio-visual courses covering different aspects of maintenance
administration and operations have been prepared and are ready to be imple-
mented; however, courses have been offered so far to only about 200 MOP
employees and workers. Through the technical assistance provided in transport
planning and coordination, the Israel Institute of Transport Planning and
Research conducted three training courses in 1978 and 1979, with the partici-
pation of about 150 professionals and students. This training effort will
continue during the remainder of the technical assistance programs under the
Fourth Highway Project until October 1980, and would be extended under the
proposed project.
III.  PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   Past Assistance
3.01      The first Bank loan to Ecuador for the highway subsector was made
in 1954 to the Comite de Vialidad of Guayas (Loan 94-EC, US$8.5 million), for
construction and improvement of about 500 km of trunk roads serving this
coastal province. Although a few sections could not be completed because of
a shortfall in project funds, the project as a whole was successful. It
played an important role in the development of the province, especially by
supporting the expansion of banana production.



- 18 -
3.02      Tle second loan was made in 1957 to the Government of Ecuador
(Loan 176-EC, US$14.5 million) to assist in construction and improvement of
533 km of trunk roads. Three of the four project roads, totaling 377 km,
were substantially completed under this project, whereas the fourth road
(Chone-Santo Domingo, 156 km) was only 60% completed when, in 1962, all loan
funds were extausted. Remaining civil works were eventually completed under
the first phase of the subsequent project (para 3.03). In addition, this
project included a limited component for improvement of highway maintenance.
3.03      In 1962, consultants were engaged to help prepare a new highway
project. In view of large financial requirements, USAID and IDB joined the
Bank and IDA in forming a consortium for the proposed project in early 1963.
The consortium highway project had a final cost of US$69 million equivalent,
of which US$33 milion equivalent was financed by external sources. The Bank
contributed US$9 million (Loan 379-EC, May 1964), IDA US$8 million (Credit
51-EC, May 1964), IDB US$4 million and USAID US$12 million. The project
provided for the construction of 730 km of road, a five-year highway mainte-
nance program involving equipment procurement and technical assistance, and
technical assistance for the preparation of future highway projects, including
a Highway Master Plan. The project was completed in 1974, six years later
than scheduled at appraisal. OED's Performance Audit Report (No. 1572,
April 26, 1977) points to the fact that, in spite of delays and cost overruns,
the construction component was successful: project roads have contributed
substantially to the economic expansion of the regions they serve. Appraisal
estimates of economic returns were surpassed in all cases, mainly because
of higher-than-expected growth of traffic. The Highway Master Plan issued
in 1974 provided a framework for several major construction projects. However,
in retrospect, it does not seem to have forecast correctly the country's needs
in the highway subsector. Some of its high priority projects did not show the
expected rates of return in later detailed feasibility studies, and some impor-
tant requirements of highway planning were not adequately addressed. Improve-
ment of highway maintenance fell somewhat short of appraisal expectations,
in particular because of: (a) insufficient transfer of know-how from the
consultants to MOP personnel, (b) lack of MOP managerial continuity, and
(c) shortage of maintenance funds. The regulatory framework for control of
vehicle axle loads was established, although with considerable delays, and
several weight control stations were built. Enforcement was not effective, but
this question is being addressed under the Fourth Highway Project (para 2.08).
B.   Projects Under Way
3.04      The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC, US$10.5 million, May 1976)
emerged from the findings of the 1974 Master Plan; total cost was estimated at
US$21 million. Its main objective is to improve transport planning and
management of the highway subsector. The project includes four comprehensive
technical assistance programs for transport planning and highway engineering,
construction and maintenance. It also provides for the upgrading of the
Babahoyo-Balzapamba Road (40 km). Construction of two other roads initially
to be included under this project had to be postponed because of insufficient
preparation. They were later included in the Fifth Highway Project. The
project also included an agricultural development study of the area of influence
of one of these roads.



- 19 -
3.05      Project implementation started slowly because of:  (a) five months
delay in fulfillment of the conditions for effectiveness, (b) the relative
complexity of the technical assistance component, and (c) the cumbersome
procedures for procurement of civil works and consultant services. Miost
contracts were signed a year after the date of effectiveness of the loan.
Project completion will extend to 1981, i.e., about 18 months later than
initially scheduled. General progress is as follows:
(a) Construction of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba road by two local contractors
was about 70% completed by January 31, 1980. Delays in the programed
execution were caused by additional engineering studies required to
adjust and supplement the original design, by the resulting
increased work quantities and by the unexpected length of the 1978
and 1979 rainy seasons in the region. Quality of the works is
satisfactory.
(b) The technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfactorily.
Their general impact has been discussed in paragraphs 1.15, 2.13,
2.14, 2.28, 2.32 and 2.37. A ten-month extension of the technical
assistance for transport planning, to compensate for accumulated
delays due to inadequate counterpart staffing, has been granted.
Transport planning has been limited so far to land transport. Lack
of cooperation between MOP and the Ministries of the Interior and
Defense prevented compliance with the Loan Covenant to extend
planning and coordination to other transport sectors. Measures to
implement this extension will be taken under the proposed project
(para 7.03).
(c) Administrative delays in MAG and FONAPRE caused a delay of 18 months
in the conclusion of the agricultural development study of the
Puerto Ila-Chone region. This component is now completed and is
being used as the basis for the appraisal of a proposed Bank-financed
rural development project, including a feeder road component.
3.06      The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1429-EC, US$17.5 million, signed
May 19, 1977, effective date October 1, 1977) included construction of the
two roads, Duran-Boliche (25 km) and Puerto Ila-Doblones (29 km), left out of
the Fourth Highway Project because of slippage in preparation. The project
also inc].udes construction of about 75 km of feeder roads in the Puerto
Ila-Doblones area and a study of rural roads development in the three southern
provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro.
3.07      By January 31, 1980, execution of civil works was proceeding as
follows:  (a) Duran-Boliche, which represents about 60% of total project
costs, is about 52% completed, according to initial implementation schedule;
design changes, however, have generated an increase in costs; (b) Puerto
Ila-Doblones is 5% completed, a year behind schedule, mainly because of slow
contracting procedures; and (c) execution of lateral feeder roads, not yet
begun, entails a delay of at least two years. This delay also applies to
the covenants related to agricultural development in the Puerto Ila-Doblones
area, which would be complied with only by the end of 1981, under the framework
of the proposed Puerto Ila-Chone Agricultural Development project, now in the
final stage of preparation. The study of rural road development in the three
southern provinces was completed on schedule and provided the basis for the
preparation of the proposed project. Project completion will extend until
mid-1982.



- 20 -
IV. THE PROPOSED SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and General Description
4.01       The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) support the development of the feeder road system in Ecuador
and related planning capability in MOP;
(b) strengthen the road maintenance capability for main roads as
well as for feeder roads;
(c) consolidate the achievements of the Fourth Highway Project
in transport planning and coordination; and
(d) strengthen the capability of MOP and three coastal provinces
through training programs.
4.02      Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) design and construction or improvement of about 1,500 km of feeder
and secondary roads in the three coastal provinces of Guayas,
Los Rios and El Oro;
(b) institutional improvement in planning, construction and
maintenance of feeder roads at a national level through estab-
lishment of a Feeder Roads Coordination Unit (UCCV) in MOP,
for which technical support will be provided;
(c) preparation of feasibility studies for followup feeder road
projects in other provinces, as part of a countrywide program;
(d) implementation of a four-year 1981-1984 maintenance program for
the main road network and coordinated measures to build up MOP's
maintenance capacity, including:
- acquisition of complementary equipment,
- acquisition of spare parts for overhaul of existing equipment
and for preventive maintenance,
- construction and improvement of workshops and warehouses,
and
- technical assistance to improve equipment management;
(e) acquisition of maintenance equipment to be used by the three
provinces mentioned in (a) for gradual assumption of responsi-
bility for maintenance of all 6,000 km of feeder and secondary
roads in these provinces;



- 21 -
(f) continuation of technical assistance for transport planning; and
(g) comprehensive training programs for MOP personnel and for personnel
in the three project provinces.
The project would be implemented over the period 1981-1984. A detailed descrip-
tion and an economic evaluation of each project component is provided in subse-
quent chapters.
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.03      As shown on the following page, project cost is estimated at about
US$104 million with a foreign exchange component of US$55 million (53%) to be
financed by the proposed Bank loan. The Government would finance the balance,
amounting to US$49 million including local tax content of about 6%, as well as
operating cost of the training program (para 6.13) and recurrent expenditures
for road maintenance (para 6.02).
4.04      The cost estimates for road improvements were prepared by consultants
ISRATECVIA and reviewed by MOP. They are based on field estimates of quanti-
ties and current unit prices for similar works and are reasonable given the
standards proposed, the terrain and soils and the expected traffic (para 5.06).
The final engineering of the first-year tranche of the road improvement program
is presently under way and would be completed by September 30, 1980. The cost
estimates for final engineering of the roads are based on costs of similar
work recently carried out in Ecuador. Retroactive financing, up to US$600,000,
is proposed for expenditures on the engineering of the first year tranche of
the improvement program (para 5.07) made after January 1, 1980. Cost estimates
for maintenance and workshop equipment and for parts for overhaul and preventive
maintenance have been prepared on the basis of lists prepared by consultants
reflecting manufacturer's quotations and recent purchases. Workshop, warehouse
and training center construction costs are in accordance with the current
costs of building construction in Ecuador, while training equipment costs were
estimated on the basis of recent experience on similar projects. For the
various technical assistance and training components, the estimated expendi-
tures are for 450 man-months of services by foreign consultants and 186
man-months by local consultants for a total of US$5.3 million equivalent or an
average cost of US$8,300 per man-month. The foreign consultant costs average
US$10,200 per man-month for salary and benefits, overheads, airfares and local
living allowance. Local consultant fees are US$3,800 per man-month. In
addition, 20 fellowships abroad for professional staff from various direc-
torates of MOP have been included at a cost of US$5,000 each.



- 22 -
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Est. Frgn.   Bank Particip
Sucres million                US$ million           Exch.Comp.   Amount
Items                                               Local   Foreign    Total   Local Foreign  Total                 %         (US$m)      X
A.  Feeder  and Secondary Roads Program
Ci)       Improvement of 1,500 kn of feeder and
secondary roads including supervision             550.0       450.0  1,000.0       22.0   18.0      40.0         45         18.0       45
(ii)      Final engineering of roads under (i)                25.0       37.5       62.5      1.0     1.5      2.5         60           1.7      70
(iii)     Technical assistance for Feeder Roads
Coordinating Unit                                    7.5       17.5       25.0      0.3     0.7      1.0         70           0.7      70
(iv)      Studies for preparation of national
feeder roads program                               15.0        17.5       32.5      0.6    0.7       1,3         60           0.8      70
Subtotal                                     597.5      522.5  1,120.0       23.9   20.9      44.8                     21.2
B.  Road Maintenance Program
(i)       Equipment for MOP                                   12.5      125.0    137.5        0.5     5.0     5.5          90           5.0      90
(ii)      Equipment for the three project provinces           20.0      175.0    195.0        0.8     7.0      7.8         90           7.0      90
(iii)     Spare parts for (i) and (ii)                         2.5       30.0       32.5      0.1    1.2       1.3         90           1.2      90
(iv)      Spare parts for equipment overhaul and
preventive maintenance                               5.0       40.0       45.0      0.2     1.6      1.8         90           1.6      90
(v)       Workshop equipment and tools                         5.0       45.0       50.0      0.2    1.8       2.0         90           1.8      90
(vi)      Construction of workshops and warehouses            25.0       25.0       50.0      1.0     1.0      2.0         50           0.9      45
(vii)     Technical assistance for road maintenance            5.0       17.5       22.5      0.2    0.7       0.9         80           0.6      70
Subtotal                                      75.0      457.5      532.5      3.0   18.3    21.3                       18.1
C.  Training Program
Ci)       Construction of training center                      7.5         7.5      15.0      0.3     0.3      0.6         50           0.3      45
(ii)      Staffing, equipment and training courses,
local and abroad                                    10.0       25.0       35.0      0.4    1.0       1.4         70           1.0      70
Subtotal                                      17.5       32.5       50.0      0.7     1.3      2.0                      1.3
D. Transport Planning
Technical assistance                                           5.0       25.0       30.0      0.2     1.0       1.2        80           0.9      70
Base Cost (at June 1980 prices)                                  695.0   1,037.5  1,732.5         27.8   41.5    69.3           60         41.5
E. Contingencies
(i)       Physical:  about 10% of A(i), B(v),
B(vi) and CCi)                                      60.0       52.5    112.5        2.4     2.1      4.5                      2.1
(ii)      Price:  on base cost plus E(i)-1                   470.0      285.0    755.0    18.8   11.4    30.2                          11.4
Subtotal                                     530.0      337.5    867.5    21.2   13.5    34.7                          13.4
Grand Total                               1,225.0   2              60        49.0   55.0   104.0           53          55.0      53
1/ Price contingencies calculated as follows
Local          Foreign
1980          20%            10.5%'
1981          20%             9.0%
1982         15%             8.02
1983         15%              7.0%
1984         15%             7.0%
Source: MOP and mission's estimate
May 1980



- 23 -
4.05      The foreign exchange component (FEC) of the feeder and secondary
road civil works has been estimated at 45%, which is consistent with the rela-
tively lower capital intensity of the construction activity involved with
these types of roads. For consultants' services for final designs and for
preparation of further feeder road programs, the FEC is estimated at 60% of
base costs, reflecting the fact that local firms would have to rely on foreign
experts for specialized technical aspects and for economic analysis and plan-
ning. Technical assistance services for the Feeder Roads Coordination Unit,
for the maintenance program and for training and transport planning are esti-
mated to have an FEC of 80%, reflecting the fact that these services would
have to be provided largely by foreign professionals. Based on the CIF prices
at the point of entry into Ecuador, the FEC of equipment, tools and spare
parts has been estimated at 90% of total cost.
4.06      Adequate provision has been made for physical and price contingencies.
Physical contingencies amounting to 10% of base costs have been provided for
all civil works and workshop equipment items. In addition, about 26% of the
project base cost plus physical contingencies has been allowed for foreign
price variations and 56% for local prices over the implementation period. The
related annual inflation rates assumed are shown at the bottom of the cost
table and reflect the relatively high level of domestic inflation forecast
over the project period.
4.07      Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 45% of total expenditures for civil works, for construction of
roads, workshops, warehouses and the training center;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
tools and parts;
(c) 90% of local expenditures for locally procured imported equipment,
tools and parts;
(d) 70% of total expenditures for consultants' services for the
preparation and final engineering of feeder road programs; and
(e) 100% of foreign and 70% of local expenditures for technical
assistance services for feeder road coordination and planning, for
highway maintenance, for the training program and for scholarships
abroad, and for land transport planning.
4.08      Disbursement would be made against usual documentation for all items.
The following would be conditions for disbursement: (a) the signing of a
Participation Agreement by MOP with each one of the project provinces for the
road improvement program in the corresponding province; (b) the complete
staffing of UCCV for road improvement works beyond 1981; (c) the employment of
consultants for technical assistance on road maintenance for MOP maintenance
equipment; and (d) the signing of a Maintenance Agreement with each one of the
project provinces, for maintenance equipment for the corresponding province.
The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Table 4.1.



- 24 -
C.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
4.09      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOP through
various Directorates and Departments as indicated below:
-    the Feeder Roads Coordination Unit, in coordination with the
Directorates of Engineering, Construction and MIaintenance and
with the three project provinces, would be in charge of the
secondary and feeder roads program and the gradual transfer
of responsibilities to the provinces. Until UCCV is fully
able to assume its coordinating role by early 1981, the various
Directorates would proceed with the engineering and contracting
activities with the assistance of UCCV's coordinator;
-    the Maintenance Directorate would be responsible for MOP's
maintenance program for the main highways and, in coordination
with UCCV and the provinces, for maintenance of the feeder
network, including gradual transfer of responsibilities to the
provinces;
-    the Program Directorate's Training Department would be in charge
of the Training Program; and
-    the Planning Directorate would be responsible for the technical
assistance for transport planning.
The capacity of the various units to satisfactorily perform the roles assigned
to them in execution of the project is considered to be adequate, with the
technical assistance contemplated to supplement the resources available in
MOP. During negotiations, in addition to agreeing to the general "adequate
staff and resources" clause and presenting specific staffing arrangements for
project administration, the Government confirmed that the number and per-
formance of the staff directly responsible for the implementation of the
various project components in MOP and in the three provinces involved in the
project would be reviewed by September 30 of each year with the Bank, together
with arrangements for coordination among units.
4.10      As shown in the schedule presented in Table 4.2, the project would
be implemented within the four-year period 1981-1984. Project expenditures
related to the maintenance program (equipment and spares procurement, training
program and technical assistance) would take place over the period 1981 through
1983. The first annual tranche of the road program would begin in early 1981
and would be completed over 12 months. Successive tranches would be initiated
in 1982, 1983 and 1984. The project implementation schedule was reviewed
and agreed during negotiations.
4.11      Engineering of the roads would be divided up into ten contracts for
each annual tranche, to be awarded to qualified local consultants acceptable
to the Bank and retained by MOP under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. Model bidding documents and draft contracts would be previously approved
by the Bank. Only contracts for amounts above US$200,000 would have to be
submitted to the Bank for approval prior to their signature. Other contracts
would be reviewed ex post.



- 25 -
4.12      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement" (Mtarch 1977). Road improvement works would be
carried out through unit price contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following MIOP procedures satisfactory to the Bank. To facilitate
participation of foreign firms, the Embassies of Bank member countries and
Switzerland would be notified of civil works biddings 45 days prior to publi-
cation of the call for bids. MOP's procedures provide for analysis of
bids in two steps: first, determination of the qualification and capacity of
each bidder on the basis of information provided with the tenders; and second,
after opening of bids proper, the evaluation of ranking among post-qualified
firms. The annual programs in each province would be subdivided into four to
six lots, taking into consideration the nature of the works and geographical
distribution (para 5.07). Each lot would range from 10 to 25 km with estimated
costs from US$0.3 to US$1.0 million. Firms would be post-qualified for one or
more lots according to their capacity. No individual lot would have an
estimated cost of less than US$0.3 million equivalent, and no group of lots to
be tendered jointly would have an estimated cost of less than US$2 million
equivalent. Given the scattered and relatively simple nature of the works,
the limited contract period envisaged for execution of each lot (12 months)
and the previous lack of interest of foreign contractors in highway construc-
tion in Ecuador, it is unlikely that foreign firms would be interested.
4.13      About 50 local firms would be eligible to execute construction of
individual lots, and about 20 would be capable of handling the largest possible
combination of lots.  Only award decisions for amounts over US$500,000 would
have to be submitted to the Bank for its prior approval. Other award decisions
would be reviewed ex post. If the Bank should determine, after consultation
with the Government, that the award was inconsistent with the Guidelines, it
would have a right to refrain from financing the resulting contract and to
cancel from the loan an amount corresponding to its scheduled participation
therein. It is anticipated that previous award review would cover about 50%
in number and 80% in value of construction contracts. Construction and
extension of workshops and warehouses (costs of less than US$0.3 million each)
and construction of the training center (cost US$0.6 million) would also be
completed following MIOP procedures outlined above with the same arrangements
for Bank review.
4.14      The procurement program for equipment, tools and parts, indicating
lot size, estimated cost and proposed exceptions to ICB mentioned below, would
be subject to prior approval by the Bank. The program was reviewed and
agreed during negotiations. Similar items would be grouped to the extent
possible for bidding purposes. All contracts with estimated costs over
US$50,000 would be subject to ICB. Contracts below US$50,000 and within
an overall ceiling of US$500,000 would be advertised locally in accordance
with relevant MOP regulations, which are satisfactory. Spare parts for
specific makes of equipment would be negotiated directly with established
dealers for individual orders of less than US$50,000 within an overall ceiling
of US$500,000. Bidding documents and model contracts for procurement of
equipment, tools and parts would be approved by the Bank.



- 26 -
4.15      Terms of reference for the technical assistance services to UCCV
and for consulting services for preparation of nationwide feeder roads programs
were agreed during negotiations. International consultants acceptable to the
Bank would be retained by hOP to assist Ministry staff assigned to UCCV. The
preparation of further feeder roads programs would be contracted by MOP in two
packages with two joint ventures of local and international consulting firms
acceptable to the Bank. Terms of reference for technical assistance services
for road maintenance (para 6.05) and for transport planning (para 7.04) were
agreed during negotiations. MOP would retain, for these purposes, interna-
tional consulting firms acceptable to the Bank. The training program would
rely upon the services of a group of expatriate and Ecuadoran instructors.
In order to ensure adequate coordination, these services would be provided by
the same consulting firm retained for the maintenance program. Separate terms
of reference for the purpose were agreed during negotiations (para 6.14).
4.16      The progress of the project would be monitored against the agreed
implementation schedule and financing requirements established at appraisal.
In addition, the following indicators would be monitored to assess advances
made toward the project objectives:
(a) physical progress and funds used for the secondary and feeder
roads improvement in the three project provinces against the
agreed programs (para 5.06);
(b) gradual transfer of responsibilities for engineering, contruc-
tion and maintenance of secondary and feeder roads from MOP to
the provincial councils according to targets set at negotiations
(para 5.09);
(c) scope and funding of the maintenance programs carried out each
year by the provincial authorities with the assistance of MOP
(para 5.10);
(d) use of equipment acquired under the project and allocated by
MOP to provincial authorities (para 5.11);
(e) implementation of MOP's annual maintenance programs in accordance
with targets agreed at negotiations (para 6.02);
(f) availability and utilization of MOP maintenance equipment in
accordance with targets agreed at negotiations (paras 6.04 and
6.05); and
(g) number of trainees participating in the Personnel Training
Program (para 6.11)
The purpose of these project indicators and the scope of related reporting
requirements were discussed and agreed at the time of negotiations.
Additionally, in the course of 1984, i.e, the final year of the project,
UCCV would conduct a traffic survey on all improved roads and would under-
take an impact survey on three selected roads or groups of roads, one in
each of the three provinces, to reassess the validity of the assumptions
used in the selection and evaluation of subprojects. The above was also
confirmed at the time of negotiations.



- 27 -
D.   Project Risks
4.17      There appears little risk associated with the construction components
of the project, the most important of which is the 1,500 km of feeder and
secondary roads. Given the size and capability of the construction industry
in Ecuador and the work supervision capacity of MOP, these road improvements
spread over four years appear a reasonable task. The major risk associated
with the feeder road component is related to the execution and institution-
building aspects of the planned feeder road maintenance effort by the three
provincial authorities. Using the equipment to be financed under the project
and with direct assistance and training from MOP and financial help from the
Central Government, the provinces are, after four years, expected to be
maintaining properly the almost 6,000 km of feeder roads under their jurisdic-
tion. Very little maintenance capacity now exists, in terms of personnel,
in the provinces; therefore, the agreements to be signed between each province
and MOP will specifically require the province to provide professional and
technical staff (including equipment operators) for the required instruction,
training and assistance from experienced MOP staff and consultants. This
aspect of the project will be monitored closely, with MOP staff making field
inspections of the extent and quality of the maintenance affected.
4.18      The institution-building goals in regard to development of an
effective national feeder road administration and for continued planning
efforts in land transport could encounter difficulties if adequate counterpart
staffing is not made available, partly because of the current budget stringency
and Government employment ceilings and the scarcity in Ecuador of the special-
ized skills required. However, detailed terms of reference and counterpart
staffing requirements have been agreed and were confirmed at negotiations
(para 4.15).
V. THE FEEDER ROADS PROGRAM
A.   Preparation
5.01      During preparation of the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects, the
inadequacy of Ecuador's secondary and feeder road system was recognized as one
of the outstanding problems in the road subsector. Therefore, a technical
assistance component was included in the Fifth Highway Project for the prepara-
tion of pilot regional secondary and feeder road programs in the provinces of
Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro and for the study of required institutional and
organizational arrangements. The three provinces comprise the lowlands around
the Guayaquil Gulf. In October 1978, MOP retained consultants ISRATECVIA to
perform this study (para 3.07), which included mainly: (a) an inventory of the
existing secondary and feeder roads in the three provinces (about 6,000 km);
(b) a study of the agricultural production of the region; (c) a transport
and traffic investigation; (d) preparation of adequate feeder road design
standards; (e) determination of road construction and maintenance costs;
(f) selection of roads to be upgraded; (g) recommendation of required institu-
tional and organizational arrangements; and (h) preparation of manuals for
design, economic evaluation, construction and maintenance of feeder roads
in Ecuador. The report was completed in November 1979 and was used as a



- 28 -
basis for the evaluation of the proposed project. The manual for design of
feeder roads prepared by consultants under the Fifth Highway Project, 1/
hereafter known as the Feeder Road Design Manual, has been adopted by MOP for
preparation of feeder road improvements, including those under the project.
B.   Agricultural Production in the Project Zone
5.02      There is a widespread recognition in Ecuador, by the Government and
the farmers, that the upward trend in food prices and the increasing imports of
food of the last two years underline the need for measures which will increase
agricultural production and productivity. Agriculture (including forestry and
fisheries) accounted for about 21.9% of GDP in 1976, while the rate of growth
of agricultural production was 5.7% p.a. over 1970-1976. Agricultural exports
rose in current value from US$260 million to US$544 million. Over the same
period, food imports grew from 140,000 tons to 330,000 tons, costing
US$100 million in 1976. Food imports now include rice (17,000 tons in 1979
and up to 30,000 tons in 1980), in which Ecuador used to be self-sufficient.
5.03      The three provinces of El Oro, Guayas, and Los Rios, which make up
the project area (Maps IBRD 14906 and 14908), produced, in 1978, about 57% of
the nation's agricultural output, accounting for 52,000 tons of cacao (71% of
total output), 22,000 tons of coffee (30%), and 1.7 million tons of banana (80%).
These are Ecuador's main export crops, making up over 90% of agricultural exports
in 1978. The three provinces accounted also for the following output: sugar-
cane, 2.7 million tons (38% of national output); rice, 212,000 tons (94%); maize,
51,000 tons (37%); cotton, 19,000 tons (71%); soybeans, 23,000 tons (91%);
citrus, 103,000 tons (17%); and pineapple, 90,000 tons (72%). The three
provinces contain about half of the country's irrigated area and are also
important producers of beef cattle and hogs. Detailed data, based on the 1974
Agricultural Census, are provided in Table 5.1. Although this output is
impressive, it is still well below the potential of this richly endowed
region. The Bank is conducting an ongoing dialogue with the Government in
regard to possible agricultural projects which could benefit those parts of
the region where development is lagging. In the areas currently being
intensively cultivated, a major barrier to more efficient agricultural exploi-
tation results from the low standards and poor condition of secondary and
feeder roads.
5.04      The feeder road component of the project would be the second step in
a long term process to develop adequate capacity to handle the feeder road
requirements of all regions of Ecuador. The initial phase, under the Fifth
Highway Project, was a "pilot" study of needed feeder road improvements
in the three highly productive coastal provinces. Now, under the project, the
next stage would include construction of feeder roads in the three provinces
and the initiation of the third step, which is the preparation of a countrywide
feeder road program including the Sierra provinces which contain the largest
concentrations of smaller scale, poorer farmers. The concentration of the
project in three provinces would not result in these provinces attracting an
abnormally high share of feeder road expenditures. Feeder roads are recognized
as a national priority, and the Government intends to continue spending on
feeder roads throughout all provinces in response to the needs of the rural
1/   Estudio de Caminos Vecinales, Manual de Diseno - ISRATECVIA, 1979.



- 29 -
population. This spending would, in subsequent years, come under the framework
of a countrywide plan with consistent selection and design criteria. Such a
plan would be developed under the project. This staged approach would also
avoid the constraints of technical and financial capacity which would inevita-
bly be encountered in launching directly into a nationwide program.
C.   Improvement of about 1,500 km of Secondary and Feeder Roads in the
Provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro
5.05      A thorough inventory was made of feeder and secondary roads in the
three provinces. Field surveys and consultation with national and local
authorities and farmers ensured that the roads studied represent the inventory
of all trafficked feeder and secondary roads. Of this total, 2,800 km were in
the largest province of Guayas, 1,900 in Los Rios and 1,000 in El Oro. Roads
in the zone were categorized into seven distinct standards, ranging from
4-meter earth tracks to two-lane paved roads (Table 2.8). The great majority
(more than 70% of the total) of existing roads are dry-weather-only narrow
carriageways.
5.06      The 1,500 km of roads selected under the project include about
600 km in Guayas, 500 km in Los Rios, and 400 km in El Oro (Table 5.2 and
Maps IBRD 14906 and 14908). The design standards (Table 2.8), which are
acceptable to the Bank, have been agreed with the Government and were con-
firmed at negotiations. The average cost for the program as a whole is
US$27,000 per km. About 1,000 km would be improved only to minimum all-weather
standards (Type 4 in Table 2.8) with a 4 m gravel surfacing and simple drainage,
at an average cost of US$15,000 per km. About 120 km of higher trafficked
roads (over 300 vpd in 1980) would warrant standards up to 6.0 m gravel base
and a bituminous surface treatment at a cost of US$80,000 per km. The program
has been divided into four annual tranches of about 400 km. The subprojects
included in the first year tranche for 1981, totaling 430 km, have been agreed
(Tables 5.3 and 5.4) and were confirmed at negotiations. The contents of
subsequent tranches for 1982, 1983 and 1984 have been tentatively agreed and
are listed in the Agreements between MOP and the provinces (para 5.09).
Annual tranches would be reviewed each year as outlined in the following
paragraph.
5.07      Detailed engineering of the subprojects included in the first year
tranche is under way and would be substantially completed in June 1980. The
subsequent batches of subprojects for years 1982, 1983 and 1984 would be
confirmed in terms of economic priority and engineering following the criteria
and methods embodied in the Feeder Road Design Mfanual complemented by
ISRATECVIA's Guide for Economic Evaluation and, as appropriate, generally
accepted evaluation methodologies such as the "producer surplus" method. The
selection and confirmation of subprojects and their subsequent engineering
would proceed as follows:



- 30 -
Deadline                                Activity
By September 30 each year      MOP, in coordination with the PC, to prepare
starting 1980                  and submit to the Bank, for review and
possible approval, an updated list of the
subprojects to be engineered in the forth-
coming year for execution in the subsequent
year. This list to contain a summary
description of each subproject with its
scope and a confirmation of its priority
ranking based on preliminary estimates of
construction and traffic densities.
By September 30 each          MOP to complete and submit to the Bank for
year starting 1980            review and possible approval the engineering
and economic confirmation study for all
subprojects scheduled for construction
during the next year. MOP also to submit
proposed arrangements for bidding on the
basis of regional groups of subprojects
to constitute lots of adequate size.
The above arrangements were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.
5.08      Engineering for the first year tranche has been contracted and
supervised entirely by MOP. For the subsequent tranches, MOP would delegate
some of its responsibility for supervision of the studies to the PCs according
to their individual capability. The construction contracts would be awarded
in the first year by MOP and supervised by its own staff with limited participa-
tion of the PCs. Responsibility for award and supervision of construction
contracts in the subsequent years would be increasingly delegated by MOP to
the PCs according to their individual capability. MOP would, vis-a-vis the
Bank, remain the Executing Agency. During negotiations, it was agreed that
the field organization, logistic support and terms of reference of the super-
vision teams would be satisfactory to the Bank.
5.09      One of the main objectives of the proposed project would be to
assist in the gradual buildup of the three provinces' capacity to plan,
construct and maintain rural roads. For the present proposed road improvements,
the provinces were consulted directly concerning roads which they felt were
high priority, and the economic evaluation broadly confirmed these priorities.
A tentative agreement was reached between MOP and the three PCs at the time of
appraisal outlining MOP's and the Councils' responsibilities in each province
in the various phases of the program, the participation of the provinces'
staff in MOP's training programs and the process for gradual transfer of the
responsibilities from MOP to the PCs. The three provinces have provided MOP
with letters of intent to participate in the project on the basis of the above
agreements. The technically and financially powerful province of Guayas would
have adequate capacity to undertake all requirements quite rapidly (para 2.12).
Los Rios already has a significant rural road program and, with assistance
from MOP, would be able to assume most tasks by 1984. The province of El Oro
lacks most in staff and equipment, and a major effort would be required



- 31 -
there. MOP has prepared a more detailed model agreement (Convenio de Parti-
cipacion) covering all aspects of planning, engineering, construction and
supervision of secondary and feeder roads in the three provinces, including
the gradual transfer of responsibilities to the PCs. This Participation
Agreement was discussed and agreed during negotiations. The summary content
of this Agreeient is provided in Annex 1. Signing of the Participation Agree-
ment with MOP by at least two of the three provinces would be a condition for
effectiveness of the loan, and signing of the Agreement would be a condition
for disbursement on feeder road civil works in any of the three provinces.
The maintenance aspects of rural roads would be covered in a complementary
agreement (Convenio de Mantenimiento para Caminos Vecinales) satisfactory to
the Bank to be prepared by MOP and to be signed by the provinces.
D.   Maintenance
5.10      The proposed project would assist MOP and the three pilot provinces
to strengthen their maintenance capability with a view to set the basis, in a
subsequent stage, to address what is a countrywide problem (para 2.32).
A tentative road maintenance program was estimated on the basis of estimated
composition of the secondary and feeder road network of the three provinces
in 1984 (Table 5.5) and was used to establish related equipment requirements.
The level of feeder road maintenance would gradually increase during project
implementation as each province builds up its capability. This would be
specified in the Maintenance Agreement.
5.11      Equipment procurement with a CIF cost of US$7 million would be
undertaken under the proposed project in two batches, US$5.7 million in early
1981 and a complement of US$1.3 million in 1983 (Table 5.6). This equipment
would be owned and maintained by MOP. MOP would make it available to the
provinces, which would be responsible for its operation. MOP would assign
field staff, assisted by approximately 34 man-months in consultant services,
to advise the provincial maintenance units on all aspects of maintenance
operations. The arrangements under which the equipment would be used by the
provinces would be spelled out under the Maintenance Agreements. These Agree-
ments would specify the network under maintenance and the annual work program,
as well as funding and staffing commitments both from the provinces and from MOP.
5.12      The draft Maintenance Agreements would be prepared by UCCV in the
second half of 1980 with the assistance of MOP's Maintenance Directorate, and
would be submitted to the Bank for review. The signature of Maintenance
Agreements acceptable to the Bank with each of the project provinces would be
a condition for disbursement of equipment to be assigned to the provinces.
MOP, through UCCV, would subsequently monitor the implementation of the
programs defined in the Maintenance Agreements and would review them annually
and adjust them, taking into account the experience gained. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed the above arrangements.



- 32 -
E.   The Feeder Road Coordination Unit
5.13      The planning and coordination of feeder roads programs at the national
level would be centered in UCCV, which would be established in MOP under the
authority of the Director General of Public Works. The appointment of its
head, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, and the
startup of its operations would be conditions for effectiveness of the loan,
and the full staffing of UCCV would be a condition for disbursement for road
improvement works beyond 1981. UCCV would have central responsibility for
formulating overall policy guidelines, coordinating the planning and execution
of feeder road projects in the three pilot provinces, and preparing new
projects including cooperating with other agencies, local and international,
with regard to road components of agricultural projects. UCCV would have
formal planning responsibility for future feeder road programs, and it would
develop coordination through early consultations with provincial councils and
other organizations involved in rural roads. It is not expected that UCCV
would be fully operational before early 1981 when all counterpart staff and
the consultant assistance would be in place. After 18 months of UCCV operation,
a review of its functions and effectiveness would be conducted in consultation
with the Bank. Such review would include the role of UCCV after conclusion of
the two-year technical assistance program. At the time of negotiations,
agreements were reached on the functions and staffing of UCCV, the required
technical assistance and the review after 18 months (Annex 2). The staffing
of the consultant team was reviewed and discussed during negotiations and
includes 90 man-months for expatriate consultants (engineers and economists)
and 48 man-months for an Ecuadoran economist.
5.14      To prepare feeder road programs for the remainder of the country
with the possible exception of the Oriente where a slower, more integrated
approach would be needed, it was agreed that two foreign/local consortia would
study the remaining provinces in two packages. Terms of reference and esti-
mates of foreign consulting services required were agreed (Annex 3). Each
team would include about 40 man-months for expatriate consultants and 45 man-
months for Ecuadoran consultants.
F.   Economic Aspects and Evaluation
(i) Economic Objectives
5.15      The main economic goal of the project is to facilitate the transport
of high value agricultural products. This goal would be accomplished by
improving road conditions on 1,500 km of existing feeder and secondary roads
of which the majority are now passable only during the dry season. The
project would also provide better and more reliable communication for the
large numbers of rural people who are dependent for livelihood upon agriculture
(approximately 90,000 farm management units were identified in the three
provinces in the 1974 Agricultural Census), i.e., owner-farmers, tenants and
village occupants alike in the project area, thereby enhancing their develop-
ment opportunities and their access to health and educational services. The
road program per se would not directly affect the distribution of intra-rural
income in the three pilot provinces.



- 33 -
(ii) Methodology and Project Benefits
5.16      The roads were evaluated by consultants ISRATECVIA (Israel/Ecuador)
by disaggregating the 5,700 km into about 1,000 sections and using a computer
model to determine the type of improvement proposed for each section and its
relative economic priority. The actual design standard for a par icular
section was based on expected traffic over the first five years of service.
The evaluation model was based essentially on a combination of the volume
of traffic forecast on the roads and the improvement in the level and quality
of access to farming areas. Minimum total transport costs (including construc-
tion, maintenance, reconstruction and road user economic costs) were estimated
for each road section, and sections were then ranked according to the economic
rate of return.
5.17      Direct transport benefits were measured through vehicle operating
cost (VOC) savings from non-directly agricultural traffic and the agricultural
benefits through value added to marketed agricultural production because of
better quality and year-round access to farming areas. At present, in the
three provinces, most of the feeder roads are rendered impassable for three to
six months of the year.
5.18      In order to calculate the agricultural benefits, which accrue almost
exclusively from presently summer-only roads, a corridor, 5 km wide, was
identified along each road section, taking into account topographical restric-
tions such as rivers and mountainous terrain. Then the number and average
size of farms in these corridors were identified, and levels and costs of
production were established for all marketed output.
5.19      Since the areas of the three provinces to be served by the road
improvement were already under intensive development and negligible new land
cultivation could be expected as a result of the proposed project, no incre-
mental agriculture-related investments, public or private, were assumed. The
agricultural benefits thus are derived solely from the improved and year-round
road access, encouraging more intensive cultivation, slightly higher production
and, for some crops, decreased quality loss in transport to markets. Loss of
quality during transport is a serious problem principally for bananas. The
consultants estimated that the existing poor condition of the roads caused
value losses of 20%-30% for this important crop. The improved roads would avoid
a significant portion of these losses. In real economic terms, the farmer now
pays, with poor road access, transport prices much greater than would be the
case with the proposed project. On the improved, all-weather roads, many
freight-related and other journeys formerly made on foot or by animal transport,
would be carried out more efficiently by motorized transport.
5.20      As mentioned in the previous paragraph, it is not expected that the
road improvements would generate significant additional agricultural production.
It was forecast that, of the total estimated marketed agricultural output in
the three provinces for 1982, valued at around S/ 10 billion (US$400 million
equivalent), only about 0.6% would be additional production attributable to
the better roads. Thus, the great majority of the agricultural benefits derive
from greater value added, due to lower total transport costs, of existing
production levels.



- 34 -
5.21      In addition to direct economic benefits, a modest attempt was also
made to incorporate the social benefits of providing better road access in the
provinces. A number of possible indicators were examined, including access
to education and health facilities, but, because of the lack of provincial
data, the analysis was possible only for population density and literacy
levels. By measuring the level of population and the number of literate
persons and students reached per km of road, indices were constructed that
purport to measure, in some degree, the magnitude of (a) general access by the
population in a road's zone of influence to markets, neighboring towns and
social welfare facilities (e.g., health centers); and (b) the access of
students to area schools and that of Ecuador's traveling teachers, who are
based in nearby towns, to rural students. These two "social indicator"
measures were combined, for each road section, with the economic rate of
return to form a weighted average index for each road. The weights used were
70% for the economic return, 22.5% for population density and 7.5% for
literacy/students. Since the legitimacy of this "socio-economic" indicator is
uncertain, it was not used to decide whether a particular road section was to
be recommended for improvement--this decision was based solely on the economic
rate of return criterion. However, the index was used in the decision of
when, over the four-year program period, a particular road would be improved.
Application of the index did, in this case, cause some minor rearranging of
the priority rankings; a few roads were thus advanced in the timing of imple-
mentation, and others were postponed to later years of the program.
(iii) Traffic Data
5.22      No historical traffic data exist for feeder and secondary roads in
the three provinces. For the proposed project, field counts were effected in
conjunction with completion of the road inventory. The results of these
counts, for the entire 5,700 km of roads inventoried, showed the following
distribution (the pattern for project roads is similar):
Fewer than 20 VPD  -   53%
20-100 VPD          -   36%
100-300 VPD         -    9%
More than 300 VPD  -    2%
100%
The composition of vehicles was found to be about 70% light vehicles (mainly
pickups), 20% trucks and 10% small buses. Traffic estimates were deseason-
alized using national data since no regional data are available.
5.23      On the higher trafficked roads, in the absence of historical infor-
mation, the growth of the national vehicle fleet was the main factor used for
traffic projections. Since this growth has been quite high in recent years,
when compared internationally, growth rates actually used for projections were
lower than that of the vehicle fleet. For low traffic roads, used principally
for agricultural activity, the basis for traffic projections was the historical
and expected rate of growth of agricultural production in the three provinces.
Generated non-agricultural traffic was not taken into account because of lack of
historical data to establish a transport demand curve. Overall, the traffic
projections (Table 5.7 provides details) can be regarded as conservative, with
an average annual traffic growth rate for 1982-1997 of 5.5%.



- 35 -
(iv) Vehicle Operating Costs
5.24      The VOC data, which do not include passenger time savings, were, in
the benchmark case (paved roads in optimum condition), based on empirical data
from companies operating various types of vehicles in the coastal region.
Operating coscb for the seven different project road conditions were then
calculated, again based on actual experience of these types of roads in coastal
Ecuador. Table 5.8 provides the details of these VOCs and demonstrates the
substantial savings to be gained from transforming fine-weather-only roads
(VOC ranging from S/ 8.1/km to S/ 27.7/km) to all-weather roads (with a VOC
range of about S/ 5.3/km to S/ 14.4/km).
(v)   Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
5.25      The principal economic returns of the proposed project, after taking
into account all economic costs, including road maintenance, derive from
improving what are now summer-only roads to all-weather status. 1/ Creation
of year-round access and more efficient transport is expressed directly in the
evaluation as an increase in the net value of marketed agricultural output and
vehicle operating cost savings to non-agricultural traffic. All roads were
assumed to be improved in 1981 and the benefits to flow over 1982-1997, making
it possible to compare the relative economics of all 1,000 road sections and
establish priorities. The agricultural benefits for 1982 were taken as repre-
sentative of all remaining years in the evaluation, i.e., 1983-1997. This
constant benefit flow can be regarded as conservative since it assumes no
increase over time in crop yields, whereas yields in Ecuador have historically
been increasing. Additionally, the ISRATECVIA analysis of agricultural
benefits was based on empirical investigation of the effect of improved access
on production in the three provinces, and these data were not based on any
historical data for this region of Ecuador, which were not available. There-
fore, for the purpose of the evaluation, it was decided to include only 50% of
the agricultural benefits calculated by the consultants. This may be a
conservative course, but it still enables identification of a substantial
highly justified feeder and secondary roads program for the three provinces.
Utilizing a cutoff economic rate of return of 12% (the Bank's estimate of the
cost of capital for Ecuador), the evaluation justified 1,500 km of feeder and
secondary roads which constitute the four-year program. Using the above
assumptions, about half of the net present value of project benefits are
derived from enhanced agricultural value added.
5.26      The weighted average economic return (ER) for the 1,500 km of
priority roads is 45.5%, making this investment highly justified (see Table 5.9
for a sample of results of the economic evaluation). ERs for individual road
sections range from well over 100% down to the cutoff of 12%. Scheduling
of the year-by-year programs was accomplished using the ER and first year rate
of return calculations for each section. The evaluation also showed that,
even taking vehicle operating cost savings alone, 1,000 km of the 1,500 km
1/   All economic benefits and costs were valued in January 1979 prices.



- 36 -
would be economically justified. Sensitivity analysis was conducted and
demonstrated that raising construction costs by 20% or reducing benefits
by a further 20% had a proportional effect on the weighted average ER, while
assuming a 20% lower level of traffic flows reduced the ER less than propor-
tionately. The effect on the number of km of justified roads of such assump-
tions is again approximately proportional. If it were assumed that the
expected road maintenance was not forthcoming, the ER would drop from 45.5% to
about 34%.
(vi)   Distribution of Benefits
5.27      As noted in paragraphs 5.03 and 5.15, the proposed project is aimed
essentially at providing more efficient transport facilities for areas of
Ecuador's highest productivity and export earning capacity. There were about
90,000 farms in the three provinces at the time of the 1974 census, and the
project will directly benefit a large proportion of these farms. The land
tenure situation in the zones of influence of the 1,500 km of feeder and
secondary roads in the Provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro is typical of
that prevalent in all the high rainfall cultivated areas of Ecuador's coast,
i.e., about 70% of the land is held in plots of 50 ha or larger. Some of
the landowners of this group rent sudivisions of their property to tenant
farmers. Landholders with more than 50 ha, along with smaller individual
landowners and cooperative members, make up the land distribution system of
this region. The pattern of landholding reflects the relatively recent
settlement of the region and the suitability of its climate, soils and terrain
for products such as sugarcane, bananas, cacao and beef cattle. Small farmers,
tenants and sharecroppers would nevertheless benefit considerably from the
project--as would the rest of the rural and town dwellers in the zone--through
reduced costs of inputs and greater accessibility of agricultural products to
local as well as international export markets. The problems and needs of
small scale farmers in the coastal region are being addressed by the Bank and
the Government in the active preparation of specific rural development
projects.
5.28      The transport industry serving the project area consists of farmers
owning their own motorized transport or belonging to cooperatives which own
freight vehicles, and intermediaries. Individual and cooperative owner-operators
would benefit directly from lower transport costs. The transport intermediary
industry consists principally of a large number of small-scale operators who
own one or several pickups. The improved road system resulting from the
project would, through providing substantially greater access to farming areas,
result in much greater competition among these intermediaries. This competi-
tion would ensure that the majority of the benefits of lower transport costs
are passed on to farmers reliant on the intermediaries.



- 37 -
VI. ROAD MAINTENANCE AND TRAINING
A.   General
6.01      As detailed in paragraphs 2.32 to 2.34, maintenance J  the main road
network in Ecuador by MOP is generally adequate, but a number of weaknesses
remain, including deficiencies in particular types of equipment, inadequate
preventive maintenance and major repairs of equipment. The principal problem
areas which require improvement are workshops and storage, spare parts supply
and training of professional and technical staff.
B.   Preparation and Description of Haintenance Components
6.02      The proposed project would address the needs of main road mainte-
nance through financing of strategic components of the Government's maintenance
program for 1981-1984. This program, prepared with the assistance of consul-
tants (Jorgensen, USA), requires annual expenditures on the main road network
to increase in real terms from US$40 million equivalent in 1981 to US$46
million equivalent in 1984. This represents a 3.6% real increase in annual
outlays during the period. The scope and composition of MOP's 1981-1984
maintenance program, as described in Table 6.1, were reviewed and confirmed at
negotiations. The funding requirements for this program, disaggregated into
principal components of labor, materials, equipment repair, fuel and lubricants
and administration, are detailed in Table 6.2 and were also reviewed and con-
firmed. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, starting in the
1982 fiscal year, MOP shall use a budgeting and accounting system under which:
(a) the road maintenance budget shall be separate from other MOP activities and
shall distinguish between routine, periodic and emergency maintenance; and
(b) the allocations under the maintenance budget shall be disaggregated into
individual components for labor, materials, equipment, parts, fuel, adminis-
tration and contracted works for periodic maintenance.
6.03      The CIF cost of the complementary equipment required to carry out
the proposed MOP road maintenance program was estimated by consultants Roy
Jorgensen and Associates at US$5 million equivalent (Table 6.3) and was
confirmed at negotiations. To assist in overcoming the present inadequacy in
supply of spare parts for maintenance equipment (para 2.34), the project
includes the following at CIF prices: (a) US$1.2 million initial stock for
maintenance equipment to be procured under the project, corresponding to 10%
of the combined cost of the MOP equipment mentioned above and of the road
maintenance equipment for the three provinces (para 5.11); (b) US$0.3 million,
for a maintenance equipment overhaul program (Table 6.4); and (c) US$1.3
million for preventive maintenance of existing equipment.
6.04      Workshops and warehouses are in poor condition and constitute a
significant bottleneck to more efficient use of equipment (para 2.34).
Therefore, improvements to central and regional facilities, with a base cost
of US$2.0 million equivalent for construction and improvement of buildings and



- 38 -
US$1.8 million to cover CIF cost for workshop equipment and tools, are included
in the proposed project (Table 6.5). To ensure continuity of workshop avail-
ability, it was agreed during negotiations that, in the event that any workshop
or other maintenance facility becomes unavailable, MOP would replace it
promptly and afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on the adequacy of such
replacement. The preventive maintenance program and the improved logistical
support would allow MOP to improve equipment availability in accordance with
the targets set out in Table 6.6. These targets were agreed at negotiations.
Progress in this area would be monitored throughout the project period
(para 4.16).
6.05      Improved equipment management would be achieved principally through
continuation of technical assistance to the maintenance Directorate with an
important on-the-job training component complementing supervisor and storekeeper
capabilities. Targets for equipment for utilization were agreed at negotiations.
Terms of reference for this technical assistance, including about 94 man-months
of expatriate consultants (engineers, an accountant and a storekeeper), were
agreed at negotiations (Annex 4).
C.   Economic Evaluation
6.06      The economic evaluation of the proposed maintenance program is based
on the difference in net costs to the economy with and without the program.
The only direct benefits quantified were vehicle operating cost savings
accruing as a result of improved road condition. Other benefits such as
passenger time savings, improved traveler comfort and safety and reduced
damage to goods in transit were not included in the evaluation. The economic
justification of the maintenance component is the net economic benefit for a
designated year (1980) of a maintenance program which includes purchase of
new equipment and spare parts, workshop and warehouse improvements and related
technical assistance, administration, materials and labor costs. Only a
benefit-cost ratio was produced since annual benefits exceed annual costs
(and would do so in all years of the program).
6.07      The existing national road network under maintenance by MOP was
subdivided by the consultants (Jorgensen, USA) into the country's seven main-
tenance districts and, for each district, the road network was disaggregated
by numbers of kilometers of paved, gravel and earth roads. In turn, these
three types of road surface were subdivided into their topographical classi-
fications of flat, rolling and mountainous. Using a computer program which
relates the effect of various types of maintenance activities on these cate-
gories of roads, and along with experience gained in Ecuador, the consultants
were able to estimate the approximate number of kilometers of each subcategory
of road which would be in good, fair or bad condition with and without the
proposed maintenance program. The highlight of this analysis (Table 6.7) was
to illustrate that a substantial portion of the paved network would justifiably
be improved by the program from fair to good condition, while a large part of
the gravel network would be raised from its present poor condition to provide
a good quality traveling surface.



- 39 -
6.08       Vehicle operating costs were developed (in 1980 prices), based on
experience in Ecuador, for light vehicles, buses and trucks for the various
types of road surfaces and topographical conditions and were adjusted also
to reflect the state of each type of road (good, fair or bad). Traffic levels
were estimated, based on local surveys and consultant observation for each of
the maintenance divisions; these traffic levels were disaggregated according
to the type of vehicle and road surface. Traffic was found not to vary
significantly, on average, according to the topographical conditions of the
different types of roads, i.e., asphalt-surfaced roads appeared to have, on
average, over the seven divisions, much the same level of traffic whether the
terrain was flat, rolling or mountainous.
6.09       Utilizing these comprehensive data, the direct economic benefits
were determined, calculated as savings in aggregate vehicle operating costs
on the national network for 1980. These benefits directly derive from the
improved state of the various classes of roads due to the road maintenance
component. This relatively small incremental component to support a basic-
ally sound program (through purchasing specialized equipment and upgrading
certain workshops) can be regarded as approximating an optimal improvement.
6.10       The proposed road maintenance program is well justified with a
benefit-cost ratio of about 5.2:1 in 1980 considering only vehicle operating
cost savings. The ER is thus in excess of 50%. In view of the likely addi-
tional indirect but unquantified benefits mentioned in paragraph 6.06, this
benefit-cost ratio can be regarded as conservative. The distribution of
benefits is expected to be favorable. Since truck and bus transport are highly
competitive, the tariffs charged to farmers, manufacturers and passengers for
goods and services would reflect the lower costs or avoided cost increases on
the better maintained roads.
D.   Training of Personnel
6.11       A four-year program (1981-1984) for training MOP personnel at
different levels plus road personnel of the three pilot provinces would
build on, combine and expand the training activities presently carried out
by the MOP Programing Directorate's Department of Publications and Training
(para 2.35) and by the technical assistance programs under the Fourth Highway
Project (para 2.36). The program aims at improving the productivity of some
1,500 staff of MOP and the provinces, mainly: mid-level technical, adminis-
trative and accounting personnel; construction and maintenance supervisors
and maintenance foremen, mechanics and equipment operators/drivers. The terms
of reference for the program, including technical assistance, are described
in Annex 5 and were confirmed at negotiations. The program would include
the strengthening of the Training Department; the construction, organization
and operation of a Training Center; the procurement of training material;
the continuation and strengthening of present training activities; and short
training courses abroad. To ensure adequate management of this extensive
program, all training activities would be controlled by a Training Department
which would be separated from the Publications Department and strengthened
through technical assistance under the project, and by employment of an
adequate number of counterpart instructors (para 6.14).



- 40 -
6.12      The Training Center would be constructed, organized and operated in
Calderon (about 10 km north of Quito) or other similar location for the purpose
of training foremen/overseers, operators/drivers and mechanics, both of MOP
and the provinces. The trainees assigned to the center would receive theore-
tical classroom instruction and would, additionally, learn under actual working
conditions while performing needed maintenance of rural roads in the surround-
ing area; training of general mechanics would be carried out at the Center's
workshop, repairing worn equipment and performing preventive maintenance on
the Center's road maintenance equipment under the supervision of experienced
instructors. Additionally, the Center would have sufficient instructors to
conduct regular on-the-job training in MOP regional offices and in provincial
establishments.
6.13      The Training Department would also:  (a) organize courses aimed at
extending the present training programs in transport planning, highway engineer-
ing, construction and maintenance, and feasibility studies; (b) continue agree-
ments with the Ecuadoran Capacitation Service (SECAP) and with the universities
to offer courses for administrative and accounting personnel; and (c) administer
a program of courses abroad for training of the local instructors and of selected
MOP engineers and technicians. At the time of negotiations, the Government
confirmed that it would: (a) establish, not later than December 31, 1980,
and thereafter maintain within MOP's Programing Directorate, a Training
Department whose functions, organization and responsibilities shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; (b) construct and start operating the Training Center not
later than December 31, 1981; and (c) provide adequate funds for the training
program in line with the schedule and estimated requirements given in Annex 5.
6.14      The execution of this program would require, in addition to the
MOP engineer acting as Chief to the Training Department, an estimated 40 man-
months of technical assistance by three expatriate training specialists
provided by an experienced consulting firm, assisted by two Ecuadoran instruc-
tors recruited from the private sector for 48 months and by MOP counterpart
personnel (Annex 5, Table 3). In addition, about 16 man-months would be
required for expatriate lecturers for professional courses. To ensure the
necessary coordination, the same consulting firm would provide the technical
assistance for maintenance and training under separate terms of reference.
The MOP counterpart personnel would be assigned at the beginning of the
program. They would take over after 24 months and would complete the four-year
program and assume responsibility for all future MOP training programs. The
professional courses would be offered by MOP staff already trained under the
Fourth Highway Project technical assistance program, or by expatriate lecturers
retained for short periods after consultation with the Bank. The participation
of personnel from the three provinces would be organized on the basis of the
agreements for project execution and for maintenance (para 5.09). These
agreements would also specify the qualification criteria for trainees and
ensure that the trainees would, upon completion of their training, be effec-
tively employed in MOP-supported maintenance activities.



- 41 -
VII. TRANSPORT PLANNING
7.01      Proper transport planning in Ecuador has not, in the past, been
brought to bear on the various modes of transport, including road transport.
Although UPCT was established under the Fourth Highway Project, its planning
efforts have been largely limited to land transport (para 1.15), i.e., roads
and railways, both of which are the responsibility of MOP.
7.02      The Government was required, under the Fourth Highway Project, to
extend planning to all modes. This extension had not occurred before 1980
(para 1.15), but adequate assurances have been received that planning for all
modes will occur commencing in 1980. The national economic planning body
CONADE has included, in the national Five-Year Plan, the creation of a National
Transport Commission, composed of the responsible Ministers for the various
modes. The function of this Commission, as stated in the Plan, is to coordinate
policies influencing the development of land, air and water transport, with
the objective of attaining maximum efficiency and integration of these trans-
port modes. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the establishment,
not later than June 30, 1981, of the National Transport Commission, with
an organization and functions satisfactory to the Bank. It was also agreed
that, not later than September 30, 1980, MOP's UPCT would complete the detailed
development plan for the highway subsector (para 2.13) and that the Govern-
ment would take this plan's recommendation into account in carrying out the
transport aspects of the 1980-1984 national development plan.  Further, it
was agreed that UPCT would undertake an economic assessment of any railway
investment in excess of US$10 million and would afford the Bank an opportunity
to comment on any such investment.
7.03      The investment plan for the national road network, prepared by UPCT
with consultant assistance, is the result of economic analysis of the needs of
the main road network. However, there is a need for continuation of technical
assistance to UPCT. The late provision of counterpart staff to the consultants
and the inadequate level of counterpart staffing in the economics and statistics
fields have limited the degree of transfer of knowledge thus far. Also, the
availability and reliability of data, such as a comprehensive road inventory,
traffic counts and vehicle fleet and freight industry information, were not
sufficient to ensure that the highway investment plan, particularly for the
longer run, is necessarily optimal. MOP is currently undertaking a comprehen-
sive main road network inventory and traffic counting program, and the results
will be available late in 1980. Further, the Ministers of Public Works and
Government (the latter being responsible for vehicle fleet and road transport
industry administration and regulation) have formally agreed to cooperate in
future road transport planning.  Thus, there is ample scope for UPCT to use
the enhanced data to refine and improve upon the investment plan currently
being prepared. A national origin and destination survey of traffic is planned
for 1981. Several other important tasks relating to land transport will be
addressed by UPCT with the aid of the project technical assistance. These
tasks include studies concerning structure of the road passenger industry and
measures to improve its efficiency, improving data and information on vehicle
registration, axle loadings, road safety, national import policy for vehicles
and auto industry policy in relation to Andean Pact agreements.



- 42 -
7.04      The work program of UPCT for 1981-1982 has been agreed and was
confirmed at negotiations. The scope and objectives of consulting services
required to assist UPCT were also agreed (about 130 man-months in total)
as were the level and quality of counterpart staffing required (Annex 6).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) road inventories to be completed by December 31, 1981, and
functional classification of the road network into primary,
secondary and tertiary roads to be carried out by June 30, 1982
(para 2.02);
(b) development of an adequate procedure to monitor traffic on the
public roads under MOP's jurisdiction by December 31, 1980;
a countrywide traffic survey to be completed by December 31, 1981
and results to be furnished to the Bank (para 2.05);
(c) the loan covenant relating to proper enforcement of vehicle weight
control included in two previous loans to be repeated, and the
Government to periodically monitor the effectiveness of its
enforcement program (para 2.08);
(d) the Government to complete, by June 30, 1981, a study of specific
aspects of road user taxes in order to recommend improvements,
furnish a copy of such study to the Bank and afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment thereon (para 2.24);
(e) the number and performance of the staff directly responsible for
the implementation of the various project components in MOP and
in the three project provinces to be reviewed annually, together
with arrangements for coordination among units (para 4.09);
(f) project implementation schedule (para 4.10);
(g) procurement program for equipment, tools and parts, indicating
lot size, estimated cost and proposed exceptions to ICB
(para 4.14);
(h) terms of reference for consulting services and counterpart
staffing for all technical assistance programs (paras 4.15,
4.18, 6.05 and 6.11);



- 43 -
(i) purpose of the project monitoring indicators and the scope of
related reporting requirements (para 4.16);
(j) in 1984, the final year of the project, UCCV to conduct a traffic
survey on all improved roads and an impact survey on three selected
roads or groups of roads, one in each of the three provinces, to
reassess the validity of subproject selection and evaluation assump-
tions (para 4.16);
(k) design standards for the 1,500 km of roads selected under the project;
subprojects included in the first year tranche for 1981 (para 5.06);
(1) arrangements for economic priority confirmation and final engineer-
ing of feeder and secondary road improvement programs for 1982-1984
(para 5.07);
(m)  the field organization, logistic support and terms of reference
of the supervision teams for civil works to be satisfactory to the
Bank (para 5.08);
(n) model agreement covering all aspects of planning, engineering,
construction and supervision of secondary and feeder roads in the
three provinces, including the gradual transfer of responsibilities
to the PCs (para 5.09);
(o) arrangements for preparation and review of Maintenance Agreements
(para 5.12);
(p) functions and staffing of UCCV, the required technical assistance
and the review after 18 months (para 5.13);
(q) scope and composition of MOP's 1981-1984 highway maintenance
program, including funding requirements disaggregated into
principal components (para 6.02);
(r) MOP to use, starting in fiscal year 1982, a budgeting and accounting
system to separate road maintenance budget from other MOP activities,
distinguishing different types of maintenance and disaggregating
the expenditures into individual components (para 6.02);
(s) list of maintenance equipment (para 6.03);
(t) any workshop or other maintenance facility that becomes unavailable
to be replaced promptly and the Bank to be afforded an opportunity
to comment on the adequacy of such replacement (para 6.04);
(u) targets for equipment availability and utilization (paras 6.04 and
6.05);



- 44 -
(v) organization of the Training Department to be carried out not later
than December 31, 1980; the Training Center to be established and
equipped not later than December 31, 1981, and adequate funds
to be provided for their operation (para 6.13);
(w) National Transport Commission to be established, not later than
June 30, 1981, with an organization and functions satisfactory
to the Bank; not later than September 30, 1980, MOP's UPCT to
complete the detailed development plan for the highway subsector;
and UPCT to undertake an economic assessment of any railway
investment in excess of US$10 million and afford the Bank an
opportunity to comment (para 7.02); and
(x) work program for UPCT for 1981-1982 (para 7.04).
8.02      The following would be conditions for disbursement of the proposed
loan:
(a) the signing of a Participation Agreement by MOP with each one of
the project provinces for the road improvement program in the
corresponding province (paras 4.08 and 5.09);
(b) the complete staffing of UCCV for road improvement works beyond
1981 (paras 4.08 and 5.13);
(c) the employment of consultants for technical assistance on road
maintenance for MOP maintenance equipment (para 4.08); and
(d) the signing of a Maintenance Agreement by MOP with each one of the
project provinces for maintenance equipment for the corresponding
province (paras 4.08 and 5.12).
8.03      The following would be conditions for effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(a) signing of the Participation Agreement with MOP by at least two of
the three provinces (para 5.09); and
(b) appointment of UCCV's head, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, and the startup of its operations
(para 5.13).
8.04      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$55 million equivalent. The terms would be 17 years with
a four-year period of grace.
May 30, 1980



45                                  TABLE 1.1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic by -lodes
(1969-1978)
Freight in Thousands (ton-km)
Year    Highways    Railways    Aviation    Water 1/    Pipelines          Total
1969     575,000      66,000        n.a.        n.a.           68,690      709,690
1970     656,800      56,000        n.a.        230,680        76,940    1,020,420
1971     759,650      54,000        n.a.        239,050        92,190    1,144,890
1972     874,100      46,400       5,060        273,750    2,007,990    3,207,300
1973     936,600      52,900       1,420        301,000    5,336,650    6,628,570
1974   1,099,400      48,600       1,470        265,050    4,147,750    5,562,270
1975   1,192,800      28,600       1,410        244,400    4,376,820    5,844,030
1976   1,268,000      25,700       1,480        262,000    4,888,660    6,592,360
1977   1,349,600      28,200       1,280        455,200    4,767,600    6,601,880
1978   1,435,600      29,700       1,450        522,700    5,191,600    7,181,050
1/ Principally coastal petroleum shipments.
Passengers in Thousands (pass.-km)
Year     Highways    Railways    Aviation         Total
1969       n.a.        86,000        n.a.
1970       n.a.        74,145        n.a.
1971       n.a.        64,400        n.a.
1972       n.a.        62,705       113,370
1973       n.a.        64,395       123,040
1974       n.a.        59,000       149,770
1975     1,975,600    58,500        177,610    2,211,710
1976     2,181,000    53,200        191,350    2,425,550
1977     2,407,900    53,000        238,920    2,699,820
1978     2,658,300    53,800        250,240    2,962,340
Source:  MOP,  UPCT
March 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode 1970-1977
(Millions of Current Sucres)
Transport Sector         1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Roads 1/                 320       789     759   1,007   1,579   1,645   1,731   2,496
Railways                 n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       21       17      20       18       11
Airports                 n.a.    n.a.       11       25      12      26       58      147                          1
Ports                    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       100     115     343      298     775                           0
Pipelines                n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        -       56      25       81       37
Total                                1,153   1,779   2,059   2,186   3,466
1/ Table 2.5 provides data for 1978 and 1979.
Source: UPCT
November 1979
M
tT
M-.



- 47 -
TABLE 2.1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Netwomn
A.  Classification of the Road Network in km (1979)
Paved     Gravel       Earth        Total
Trunk Roads                     4,210     4,158             40       8,408
Secondary and Feeder Roads        222     8,6O9        16,637       25.468
TOTAL NETWORK              4,432    12.767         16,677       33,876
B.  Development of the Highway Network 1970-1979
Year      Paved      Gravel       Earth        Total
1970      2,850      8,150        11,300       22,300
1973      3,419      7,107        12,012       22,538
1976      4,168    10,085         12,234       26,487
1979      4,432    12,767         16,677       33,876
Average Rate
of Growth          5.0       5.1           4.4          4.8
C. Highway Network under MOP Maintenance (1979)
Paved     Gravel       Earth        Total
Trunk roads                     3,091     2,243           132        5,466
Secondary and Feeder Roads         22     1,446           479        1.947
TOTAL NETWORK      3,113     3,689            611       7A413
Percentage of
Total Network      70.8       28.8           3.7        21.9
Source: MOP
January 1980



TABLE 2.2
- 48 -
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1970-1979)
(millions of US Gallons)
Gasoline               Diesel                Total
1970                   109                   15                   124
1971                   124                   17                   141
1972                   129                   18                   147
1973                   146                   21                   167
1974                   166                   24                   190
1975                   204                   34                   238
1976                   242                   43                   285
1977                   282                   55                   337
1978                   326                   58                   384
1979                   408                   67                   475
Annual rates of growth:
1965 - 74 = 10%
1975 - 79 = 19%
Source: UPCT and Ecuadorean Petroleum Corporation
March 1980



- 49 -                               TABLE 2.3
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration by Categories (1964-78)
Passenger Cars        Trucks
Years     and Pickups        Light & Heavy         Buses       Total
1964         22279               6408               3315       32002
1965         26389               7545               3962       37896
1966         29747               7593               4081       41421
1967         31103               8522               4654       47279
1968         36756               8896               4900       50652
1969         41851               8862               5109       55822
1970         49068               9066               5298       63432
1971         58177              10229               6061       74467
1972         67414              10440               6076       84530
1973         73783              11016               6086      90885
1974         92812              12881               6296      111989
1975        108294              13938               6274      128506
1976L'      113247              14666               6511      131841
1977L'      128660              15536               7267      151464
1978L'      146009              16371               7540      169920
Average rate
of growth      14.4              6.9                 6.0       12.7
1964-78
Average rate
of growth      14.8              6.3                 4.4       12.9
1968-78
/1 Estimate
Source: UPCT
November 1979






- 50 -
lADLE 2. 4
ECUADOR
PROPOSED SIXTH IIGIWSAY PROJECT
Presser  Stotos  Oerordcrpcod Feed-e_EoodeRoraoerrrt
Coo-di-ti-o wiLh MOP               PRonciog                   Fioc-            i          tgo E ogeti- tg           Co -t-to                     PeieotePeiod                          5/I,             tot _ td
A.  LOCAT GOVRNMYNTS
19 Pro-i-oiel forcls c              oy for poje-tt             P-repare  Soot.    N of          8-diecly              Eeote, fatoolly             Co-tro-tor. cod            MioiSrR, force               1973-1977             480            ole
fo- -So.iio                uod HOPoo-gh NSF            or-cAre eAgioerlng
tootir SpaS iuorilS                   rtId-                    Noto                        IdeM                       ldoM                        TdN                         SOre-                        tie                   n/a 4/         o/e
B.  CRET0A4 GOVERNMENT
DEVZLCPNE3T ORGANIZATO0NS
Reect0s of A0rfolturo - FIs  Loose torrdi tenor               OnlyoitPo ot-torol    MAG Sbod,rt,                     Ot  -stsocoel,              ForcHOtcunt                Rinsiea  Iorte               1973-1978              11             230
ioi.tlied  ro-totly        projects                    FONAPRE3/                  PArtiLclRy  r-otto                                      orooctt ord
eogitoeriog  dorise                                    Forgee  !/
-tur -ot  tofors iutd              Note                       Idor                       HFrS bd,o, AtDdrid 1tod  Ar-i    -o8i-ttirg                                        Mitirel                      1974-1978                6            o/u
C   -RRoc-eief-
Sydouo   Esoir-cs                  Roo                         Ids Mo  b.odge, WO-d Fd  CorturIt-te, rOe                                          FPrte  ccoon                Ide                         1974-1978               Z8             60
Etetitti- SNRERI                                                                           Frog-o, OASAptoc
EcoedoriNt   tarli-uto fEr          OrR,ororditAlor           Sire                        Are hbdIeL                 torsoitorto                 Co-tro-toos                Coorruo                      rio                   t/c             u/c
ZRottrlfi-oti-- SHNRESL
Ec-edori  Oill Corpo-ti-oe   cti- coucdircriut                 Ide-                        Idor                                                   Idem                       CHteret                      nt-                   r/c             n/,
C.  ROAISOIAIL ROOLOOMENA
EANciZAiONS
Seuther. Breder lor.iopeodt   Coordi.rted plietrio                t,F  brd,ee, tNASDE,                                C-Et torte,          O       oDuteucoorr u. i             uiriul                    1977-1979               14             37
t_8rre- P_E RSmR                   drSol   -ud                 .r.ordi-trd eiTh            HOP, Aod ireerceS red    p-e-r-l                       for-e .ccoc t
tots troctirt.             oREther    ereo So             rrnmnt ierc=   Sores9
Ceote  for Otcocmir                Coord.ditod de.isg   cod  IdeA                          fee bodgeD, HOR,           Idec                        Idit                        Idee                        rie                   0/c             n/a
kClA                                                                                      loots
A--eoi-u  DeNelo- ..e.t Areee                     .Ocrrite     UIlticerd                   IdkN                       To be de-oite -ed           To be de-e-eL-ed            TR  be dietr-i-ed           rfe                   e/c             n/,
Or-tlto-   SONCRAbl0Rescr
royc    - Aecit D-eoepo-ect       Lited                       G ly ciri                  OeG bodiet, FONADE,        C-eol1Ru-se                 Corroerrere                 NioDm-al                    c/c                     /             e
orsisslce - CEDEGE                                            Iectorol projeoe            P FONAEPE, cod IDB
ocObi Hehlo -litetiot   trier  Id- ed                                                     Ow  ibdse,t FONADE.        ittouloc- to                foc    ruot                Idre                         D/                    r/.           n/e
.R.M0.                                                                                             I-er     ..od  foreiir
Intstp  of P hbli, WAkb  HOP                                   Stered 1979 oudor           ON  bude'L .s P....e,              O        :s o        ortreoItos, Poes           HiEEL                        1976 e1979            740           SeA
iiFifth     PiSl er/cE    PONAPNIEJ p.r o..ol                                        - corut bI  pr-oi-cil   fo-reecrorer                       _       I                I     S
I~~                                                     ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  rorcllsetoodtoe                                                        I
FQALE;       -a - 't_IBdo De D rrO_ lo, epelcl ie_erneet ford fo  fi-titE  gtr-1 decolopme-t                                              j/    Wl__Ae-   ort_i-_d --_tny                              196-17
/ F           F-d. N-i-I do Por rser-         o    special ford osth UNDF poreec.             fPo  Il         p-i---t trelc-esEee ot  dioes kd
J-ocrp 1980






ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Actual and Proposed Highway Expenditures by MOP 1976-1984
1976 1/   1977 1/   1978 l/ 1979 1/   1980-'/    1981Z    19821/    1983./    1984-1
Main Network
Engineering                       76.6      128.6      106.3      146.5      217.0      136.0       148.0    170.0        190.0
Improvements                     349.4      522.7      208.6       -          -         525.0       943.0  1,580.0    1,720.0
Construction                   1,030.2   1,491.6   2,125.1   2,275.2   2,830.0   2,874.0   2,485.0  1,850.0    1,700.0
Maintenance                      322,1      463.1      612.7      575.0      792.0       850.0      910.0    970.0    1,000.0
Subtotal                 1,778.3   2P606.0   3,054.7   2,996.7   3,839.0   4,295.0                    4,550.0    4,610.0   H
Secondary and Feeder Roads
Engineering                        7.5       19.7       10.0       19.4       92.0        97.0      115.0      50.0        -
Constr. and Improvements         267.3      333.4      207.8      106.5      530.0       412.0      684.0  1,115.0    1,600.0
Maintenance                       -          -          -          -          -          140.0      145.0    155.0        160.0
Subtotal                   274.8      353.1       217.8      125.9      622.0      649.0      944.0  1,360.0    12760,0
Training                          n/a        n/a        27.4       36.0        33.0       20.0       20.0      20.0         20,0
Administration                   107.8       89.7      205.0      219.0       233.0      256.0      280.0    310.0         320,0
Total                    2,160.9   3 048.8   3,504.9   3,377.6   4,727.0   5,220.0   5,730.0  6,240.0    6,710.0
1/ In millions of current sucres
2/ Proposed figures in 1979 prices
n/a No data available
Source: MOP
January 1980



- 52 -                                TABLE 2.6
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Road Expenditures and Road User Taxes 1975-1978
(Millions of Current Sucres)
Expenditures
1975      1976       1977      1978
Road Maintenance                387       322        463       612
Administration                  85        108         89       205
Studies                         77         84       145        116
Construction                   657      1,646     2,347      2,540
Total                   1,206      2,160     3,044      3,473
Road User Taxes
1975      1976       1977      1978 1/
Import Duties                1,032        474 2/    620        800
Vehicle Registration Fees       55         53        150       190
Licenses                        58         66         86       100
Tools                           84         78         85        90
Weighing Station Fees             7         9         10         6
Tax on Petroleum Products      405        496        600       700
Total                   1,641     1,176      1,551      1,886
Direct Subsidy on Petroleum
Products 3/                (1,043)   (1,300)   (1,575)   (1,832)
1/ Mission estimates.
2/ In 1976, import of private cars was temporarily prohibited.
3/ Defined as difference between retail price and cost of extracting,
refining and distributing petroleum products and of importing, as
Ecuador does, about 10% of its gasoline needs, plus existing taxes.
Source: UPCT and mission estimates
December 1979



- 53 -
TABLE 2.7
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Taxes According to Type of Vehicle 1977
(Millions of Current Sucres)
Road User         Direct Subsidy         Net Road
Taxes              on Fuel            User Taxes
Cars                         665                (-)165                500
Pickups                      335                (-)280                 55
Trucks (3-10 ton             250                (-)470              -220
capacity)
Trucks (over 10 ton          160                 (-)350             -190
capacity)
Buses                        140                (-)310              -170
Total:     1550                (-)1575              - 25
Source: Mission estimates
December 1979



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Minimum Design Standards for Feeder Roads
Class-                    7 (IV.1) 2/             6 (IV.2) 2/           5 (V.1)2/               4 (V.2)  2/            3 (V.3) 3/               2 (V.4) 3/               1 (V.5) 3/
Type of 4 ,0                                                                                                                                              M            
Terrain-               F      0      M        F      0     M          F     0       M         F    0      M          F   0       M           F     0      M          F      0      M
Design Speed kph       c0    50      40       60    60    40         50    35       25       50   35    25           50   35    25          50    35    25           30    20    15
Minimum Horiz.
Curve Radius- m       120    80      50      120   120    50         80    40       30       80   40    30           80   40    30          80    40    30
Maximum Profile
Grade          Z        5     7       9        5      5     9         6      7     10          6    8    10           6    8    10           6      8    10           6      8    12
Maximum Length
Ondul. gradient-m                   750                   750                    1000                  1000                    1000                    1000                     1000
Roadbed Width   m   6.0    6.0   6.0         6.0   6.0   6.0         6.0   6.0   6.0        4.0  4.0   4.0          6.0  6.0   6.0         4.0   4.0   4. C         4.0   4. 0  4.0
Shoulder Width  m   0.6    0.6   0.6         0.6   0.6    -           -      -               -    -      -          -    -       -          -      -     -           -     -      -
Crowning        Z    2.5    2.5   2.5        2.5   2.5      4          4      4     4          4    4      4          4    4      4          4      4      4          4      4     4
Surface              Subgrade CBR>12         Subgrade CBR>12         Sub-base CBR720        Sub-base CBR?20        Improved Earth          Improved Earth           Natural  Earth
Type                 Base CBR780             Base CBR>60                                                            0.20 m                 0.20 m
Simple Surface
Treatment 0.02 m
Minimum Right-
of-way width                  25                  25                         15                     15                    15                       15                     15
1/ Modification of MOP's former Classes IV and V
2/  Standards proposed for improvements under project
3/  Low-standard existing roads
4/  F - Flat; 0 - Ondulated; M - Mountainous



- 55 -
TABLE 2.9
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Present MOP Road Maintenance Fleet
Older Units
New 1/   Good   Regular  Over-  To be
Equipment Type                      Units    Cond.   Cond.   haul   Scrapped   Total
Bulldozers, 200 HP                   -           6     -         2       2          10
Bulldozers, 140 HP                   34         22     12       18      10          96
Bulldozers,  80 HP                   -          -      -         2       2           4
Front end loaders, 1.5 y3            40          6      2        1      14          63
Front end loaders 2.5 y3             14         23      3        8       -          48
Motorgraders, 140 HP                 60         18      5       27      18         128
Steel  rollers 6-10 tons             -          14     10        4       3          31
Vibratory rollers 3-5 tons           30          8     -        -       --          38
Tire rollers, 8-10 tons              -          10     -        -       --          10
Cranes                               -           2      2       -       -            4
Dump trucks, 5 m3                   100        118     62       14      37         331
Dump trucks, 8 m3                    30         -      -        -       -           30
Asphalt distributors, 5,000 1.       -           6      4       -       -           10
Aggregate distributors               -           6      1       -       -            7
Trailers with tractors                1          4     -        -       -            5
Low-boys, 15 tons w. tractors        14          8     -        -       -           22
Compressors                          -           4      4        1      -            9
Grass-mowers                         14         -       2       -       -           16
TOTAL                         337       265    107       77       86        862
1/ Brazilian equipment delivered in 1979
Source: Consultants Roy Jorgensen and Associates
March 1980



- 56 -
TABLE 4.1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
Quarterly Disbursement               Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year           (US$ millions)                 Disbursements
1981
December    1980                 0.2                            0.2
March        1981                1.3                            1.5
June         1981                6.0                            7.5
1982
September   1981                 7.5                          15.0
December    1981                10.0                           25.0
March        1982                5.0                           30.0
June        1982                 3.0                           33.0
1983
September   1982                 2.5                          35.5
December    1982                  2.1                          37.6
March        1983                 2.1                          39.7
June        1983                  2.1                          41.8
1984
September   1983                 2.2                           44.0
December    1983                  2.2                          46.2
March        1984                 2.2                          48.4
June         1984                 2.2                          50.6
1985
September   1984                  2.2                          52.8
December    1984                  1.7                          54.5
March        1985                 0.5                          55.0
Loan effectiveness           September 1980
Invitation to bidding        September 1980
Civil works begin            January   1981
Equipment delivery begins  June         1981
Source:   Mission estimates
April 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
CALENDAR YEAR                                1980                      1981                     1982                      1983                       1984
Month                              INJAiMIJIJIAIS OINJp  J|F|1!A|M|J|J|A|S|OINID JIF|MIA|M|J JIA          D JIFIMIAIMIJIJIAIs O|N|D J|F|M|A|M|J J|A|S|OINID
Approval by the Board
Loan Agreement and Effectiveness
1. Secgndary and Feeder Roads Program
a.  Civil works
Engineering
Advertising through contracting
Mobilizarion and construction                                      .__                                                         t 
b.  Technical assistance to UCCV
c.  Preparation of Natioual Faider Road Program
2.  Road Maintenance Program
a.  MOP idaintenance works
b.  Maintenance works in 3 provinces
c.  Equipment procurement                                                               .            -
Advertising through contracting
Equipment deliveries
d.  Rehabilitation of equipment
e.  Construction of workshops and warehouses
f.  Technical assistance
3. Training Program
a.  Organization of Training Department
b.  Construction of Training Center
C.  Technical assistance                                      ,
4.  Transport Planning
Technical assistance                                                      t    tI
Source: MOPT and mission
May 1980



- 58 -
TABLE 5.1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Agricultural Data for Provinces
of Guayas, Los R;os and El Oro (1974)
% of Share
National   of three
Item & Unit                       Guayas   Los Rios   El Oro    Total       Provinces
Improved pasture ('000 ha)          259      120        126       1,860          27
Cattle population ('000 head)       333       169        93       2,515          24
Hog population ('000 head)           99        80        27       1,053          20
Irrigated area ('000 ha)            184       28         43         506          50
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, 1974 Agricultural Census and mission estimates
February 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Four-Year Secondary and Feeder Roads Improvement Program
(1981-1985)7
Program             Guayas                  Los Rios_                 El Oro   __Total
Year        Length       Cos t-       Length      Cost-/       Length       Cost!'        Length      Cost)/
km       US$ 000         km_      US$ 000         km        US$ 000          km        US$ 000
First        200.1        4,463.9      119.0       3,056.0      110.6        2,530.3         429.7    10,050.2
Second       149.0        4,169.9      138.4       3,171.8       72.3        2,698.2         359.7    10,039.9
Third        127.5        2,873.8      115.5       3,166.7      157.3        4,013.1         400.3    10,053.6
Fourth       113.8        2,540.7      115.2       3,089.0       57.0        4,226.6         286.0      9,856.3
Total        590.4       14,048.3      488.1      12,483.5      397.2       13,468.2       1,475.6    40,000.0          0
1/ At June 1980 prices
Source: MOP and mission's estimates
March 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
First Year Secondary and Feeder Road Improvement Programs
Province of Guayas
Road                                     Length      Class of Road I/        Road                                           Length    Class of Road-/
No.           Road Name                    km      Present  Proposed         No.              Road Name                       km     Present  Proposed
104.4
5420     Hda. San Carlos-Sta. Rita         1.8         3        5           5412      Hda. El Aromo-El Aromo                  3.0        3         4
5137     Isidro Ayona-Paso Limonal        10.0         1        4           5429-2    San Rafael-Nudo 6531                    3.3        1         4
5431     San Pablo-Nudo 6590               9.5         1        4           5405      Charayaco-Sta. Rosa                     3.5        4         5
5064     Los Corazones-Potrerillos         1.5         1        4           5106       Salitre-Nudo 3740                      6.0        3         4
5433     Nudo 6590-La Florida              3.0         1        4           5279      Rio Chimbo-Venecia                      1.1        4         5
5416     Santa Rita-Empalme Soledad        3.6         2        4           5437      San Francisco-Tengual                   2.0        1         4
5065     Lob Corazones-Jerusalen           3.5         1        4           5087      Hacienda Matilde-La Mina               11.0        1         4
5094     Pedro Carbo-Las Anonas            6.0         3        4           5108      La Mina-Victoria                        5.0        1         4
5188     Garaicoa-Rio Chico                6.0         1        4           5085      Nudo 3740-Hda. Matilde                  3.0        1         4
5434     San Rafael-Las Papayas            1.5         3        5           5074      Las Piedras-Parcel de Villao            5.5        1         4
5417-1   Empalme Soledad-Nudo 6431         3.5         2        4           5093-1    Desvio de Villao-Parcel                 5.5        3         4
5170-1   Carrizal-Nudo 4641                6.3         1        4           5093-2    Parcel-Villas                           2.3        1         4       1
5164-2   Barranca-Hda. Barranca            4.0         1        4           5093-3    Villas-Porotillos                       3.0        1         4       a
5210     M. Sucre-Milagro                  6.3         5        7           5407-3    Jesus Maria-Tripode                     9.7        1         5
5435     Tenguel-Los Papayos               2.0         3        5           5407-2    Tripode-El Tesoro                       2.4        1         4
5278-2   Venecia-El Guabo                  2.3         3        4           5415      Cien Familias-Empalme Soledad           9.5        2         4
5270     Milagro-Las Pilas                 9.1         3       4            5421      Sta. Rita-Nudo 6490                     0.5        3         4
5275     Las Pilas-Venecia                 6.6         1       4            5422      Nudo 6490-Nudo 6510                     1.4        3         4
5075     Pedro Carbo-Los Corazones        0.C         3       4           5423       Nudo 6510-Hda. El Recreo               10.0        2         4
5411     Naranjal-Hda. Fatima              4.5         3       4           5426       Nudo 6490-Nudo 6560                     2.5        3         4
5387-1   Churute-El Mirador                3.4         1       4           5428       Nudo 6560-Hda. San Miguel               5.5        2         4
Subtotal                    104.4                                                 Total                        200.1
1/ According to Table 2.8
Source: MOP and mission's estimates
March 1980
I-,



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
First Year Secondary and Feeder Road Improvement Programs
PROVINCE  EL ORO                                                     PROVINCE  LOS  RIOS
Road                                     Length    Class of Road!/       Road                                       Lgth      Class of Roadl/
No.     Road Name                          km    Present  Proposed       No.         Road Name                       km      Pres.  Propos.
3055    Pedregal Sur-Pedregal Este          2.1        3        4       8004-1  La Cadena-Nueva Esperanza            4.0        5        7
3067    Sta. Rosa-Estero Medina             4.2        5        7        8060    Ventanas-Nudo 4750                  1.0        5        7
3066    Sta. Rosa-Empalme                   0.7        5        7       8005    La Esperanza-La Cadena               6.0        3        7
3044    Machala-Empalme Pajonal             7.8        5        7        8108    Ricaurte-Poblecitos                 4.0        5        7
3037-1  La Peania-Nudo 3201                 2.0        2        4        8055-1  DesvioLosAngeles-Los Angeles        3.0        2        4
3072    La Templadera-San Agustin           4.7        3        5       8110    Poblecitos-La Troncal                3.0        5        7
3156    Estero Medina-Piedra Blanca         2.5        5        7       8062    Hda. Bonita-El Cruce                 7.4        5        7
3022    Guabo-Hacienda Chaguana             4.0        2        4        8112    La Gran Via-Potosi                   2.5       5        7
3049    Cafias-Empalme Las Marias           6.9        2        5        8214    DesvioLosAngeles-Emp.ElPail6n    3.5           5        7
3077    Huquilla-Hualtaco                   3.9        5        7        8235    Nudo 4750-Hda. Bonita               1.1        5        7
3071    Piedra Blanca-Bella Maria           5.0        5        7        8063    El Cruce-Achiote                    2.7        5        7
3029    Hda. Chaguana-Nudo 3190             7.7        1        4        8111    La Troncal-La Gran Via              4.6        5        7           1
3048    EmpalmeLas Marias-Las Palmas        3.0        3        5       8114-2  Potosi-San Pablo de Pita              5.5       5        7           o
3084    La Avanzada-San Agustin             2.7        5        7        8212-2  Emp. El Pail6n-Chacarita            5.7        3        6
3046    Empalme Pajonal-Corralitos          3.0        5        7        8109    Poblecitos-Cerritos                  2.8       1        4
3030    Pta. Garz6n-Nudo 3190               0.6        5        7        8064    Achiote-Desvio Los Angeles          0.9        5        7
3056    Pedregal-San Joaquin                4.5        1        4        8114-1  San Pablo de Pita-Caluma           10.0        5        7
3065    Empalme-Jum6n                       3.8        5        7        8055-2  Los Angeles-La Lorena                5.0       1        4
3037-2  Nudo 3201-Jubones                   3.5        1        4        8079    Miraflores-Piedra Grande             8.0       5        7
3020    El Guabo-Chantillal                 1.5        5        6        8078    Miraflores-El Cruce                  5.0       5        7
3053-2  La Victoria-Pedregal Sur            2.5       1         4        8308    Piedra Grande-Echeandia              9.0       5        7
3027    Guabo-Jubones                       4.0       3         5        8034    El Guineo-La Lorena                  5.3       2        4
3092-1  Arenilla-Estero Seco                5.0        2        4        8009    Aguas Claras-Maravilla             19.0        2        4
3092-2  Estero Seco-La Palma                5.4        1        4
3059-1  Pasaje-Escuela E. Garcia            6.6       3         4                                                  119.0
3059-2  Escuela E. Garcia-Hda. San Jose     3.0        1        4
3068    Piedra Blanca-La Quebrada          10.0       1         4
110.6
1/.According to Table 2.8
Source: MOP and mission's estimates
March 1980



- 62 -
TABLE 5.5
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Feeder Roads Maintenance Program in the three Provinces
A.  Secondary and Feeder Roads Network in the three Provinces (km)
Paved      Gravel      Earth      Total
Actual 1979                     150        1,950      3,540      5,640
Forecast 1984                   300        2,700      3,000      6,000
B. Maintenance Program 1984
Annual
Units     Quantities
(i) Maintenance of Paved Roadsl/
Shoulder gravel replacement                   m3          1.500
Ditch cleaning with equipment                 km            500
(ii) Maintenance of Gravel Roads
Shaping and grading                           km          8.000
Spot regravelling                             m3         54.000
Replacement of gravel wearing course          m3        250.000
Ditch cleaning with equipment                 km          5.400
(iii) Maintenance of Earth Roads
Shaping, grading and ditch cleaning           km          3.000
Spot gravelling                               m3         30.000
(iv) General
Right-of-way clearing by hand                 ha          4.000
Culvert clearing                             n.a.          n.a.
Bridge maintenance                           n.a.          n.a.
(v) Emergency
Slides removal                                m3         50.000
Embankment reconstruction                     m3         10.000
1/ Maintenance of asphalt surfaces would be undertaken by MOP.
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1980



- 63 -
TABLE 5,6
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentati-e Equipment Procurement List for Feeder Roads Maintenance
(in US$'000, CIF June 1980 prices)
Unit        1981              1983
Costs No of Units Cost No of Units Cost
Crushers, 75 m3/hr                      200        L        800
Bulldozers, 200 HP                      120        4        480
Bulldozers, 140 HP                       80        4        320
Front end loaders, 2,5 y3                50       10        500      3         150
Dump trucks, 5 m3                        25       60      1,500     22         550
Water tank trucks, 5.000 ltrs            32         7       224       3         96
Motorgraders, 140 HP                     65       14        910      6         390
Self-Propelled Rollers, 6-10 tons        35        7        245      3         105
Compressors with tools, 350 cu.ft.       25        4        100
4 x 4 Pick-up trucks                     10       15        150
Fuel trucks 8.000 ltrs                   35        4        140
Low-Boy with Tractors                    80        3        240
Concrete Mixers                           5        2         10
Electric Sets and Radios                                     90
5,709              1,291
Spare parts for initial stock (about 10%)                   570                130
Source: Mission estimates
March 1980



- 64 -
TABLE 5.7
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Projections for Secondary and Feeder Roads
1982-1997 (% p.a.)
Pick-Up     Bus     Truck      Total
Roads connecting municipalities
and connecting with the main
road network                            8.5       4.5       5.5       7.5
Basic feeder roads                      5.7       3.0       3.7       5.0
Total                                   6.1        3.3      4.0       5.5
Source: Consultants ISRATECVIA
November 1979



- 65 -                                TABLE
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on Roads in Provinces of
Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro
(Sucres/km, January 1979 Prices)
Road Condition       Pick-Up       Small Bus       Truck (10 ton capacity)
Optimum                3.52           6.26                   10.31
Project Roads
Type 1/
1                 9.2           14.2                   27.7
2                 8.1            9.2                   18.5
3                 8.0            8.4                   16.9
4                 6.0            7.3                   14.4
5                 5.3            7.3                   13.9
6                 4.9            6.6                   13.0
7                 4.5            6.1                   11.8
1/ For description of road types, see Table 2.8.
Source: Consultants ISRATECVIA
February 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sample Results of Economic Evaluation
Benefits From
Vehicle Operating      Benefits From                                   First Year  Economic
Construction     Cost Savings      Agricultural Value  Net Benef>s  Net Present    Return            Return
Road Section No. -   Cost in 1981          in 1982           Added in 1982       in 1982 -        Value           %           %
('000 Sucres)    ('000 Sucres)         ('000 Sucres)    ('000 Sucres) ('000 Sucres)
5087              5,857             1,464                  776             1,968          11,912         33.6        35.7
5137              4,206                314               2,443             2,510          15,583         59.7        60.1
5210              2,480                638                  0              1,451           7,773         58.5        51.7
5188              2,125                377                 669                897          5,482         42.2        43.5
5279                248                 22                  0                  20            140          8.0        18.5
5407              6,020               532                1,179             1,454           7,530         24.2        26.1
5420                680                221                 230                543          3,816         79.8        80.2
5431              3,356                630               3,217              3,611         25,558        107.6       108.3
3020                218                 57                  0                  34            573         15.5        39.8
3044              3,608             2,181                   0              1,861          21,718         51.6        73.1
3049              3,064               810                  533             1,913          11,848         62.4        60.2
3068              6,968                359                 964             1,040           1,995         14.9        14.3
8005              2,771             3,107                  288             4,358          38,247        157.3       160.6
8109                866                 67                 151                148            445         17.1        17.4
1/ See Tables 5.3 and 5.4 for identification of road, length and present and proposed road class.
2/ Net benefits are the sum of construction, reconstruction, maintenance and vehicle operating costs and
agricultural value added, with and without the improvements.
Source: Consultants ISRATECVIA
February 1980



- 67 -                     TABLE 6.1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOP's 1981 Road Maintenance Program
Annual
Units       Quantities
A.  Maintenance of Paved Roads(3,100 km)
Crack sealing                                gal            16,000
Light patching (asphalt mix)                m3              10,000
Heavy patching (asphalt mix)                m3               4,000
Surface dressing                            m2           7,000,000
Single surface treatment                    m2           2,800,000
Asphalt concrete overlays                   m2           1,000,000
Shoulder gravel replacement                 m3              38,000
Ditch cleaning by hand                       km              3,300
Ditch cleaning with equipment                km               5,500
B.  Maintenance of Gravel (3,700 km)
and Earth(600 km) Roads
Shaping and grading                         km              28,000
Spot regravelling                           m3              77,000
Replacement of gravel wearing course         m3            570,000
Ditch cleaning with equipment                km              7,600
C.  General
Right-of-way clearing by hand                ha              2,700
Right-of-way clearing with equipment         ha              1,800
Culvert cleaning (21,500 units)              im            206,000
Maintenance of timber bridges                lm                 500
Maintenance of steel bridges                 lm               1,400
Maintenance of concrete bridges              lm               4,000
Maintenance of horizontal signs              units            1,900
Maintenance of vertical signs                units              800
Others                                      man-hrs.         5,000
D.  Emergency Maintenance
Slides removal by hand                      m3              40,000
Slides removal with equipment               m3             523,000
Embankment reconstruction                   m3              22,500
Other emergency works                       man-hrs.         2,000
Source: Consultants Roy Jorgensen and Assoc.
March 1980



- 68 -
TABLE 6.2
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Funding Requirements for the Four Year
Road Maintenance Program 1981-1984
(in millions of January 1980 Sucres)
1981        1982           1983         1984
Labor                            320          336            352         36E
Materials                        150          157           .165         172
Equipment Repair                 170          178           187          195
Fuel and Lubricants              100          105           110          115
Administration                   100          105            110         115
Sub-Total Current
Expenditures                    840          882           924          966
Equipment Renewal
Capital Expenditures             160          168           17b          184
Total Funding Program          1,000        1,050         1,100        1,150
Source: MOP and Mission Estimates
May 1980



- 69 -
TABLE 6.3
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentative MOP Road Maintenance Equipment Procurement List
(in US$000 at June 1980 CIF prices)
Number         Unit
of Units      Price        Total
Patching Plants 1.5 m3                           7             10            70
Patching Plants, 3.5 m3                          5             50           250
Portable Asphalt Heaters                        13              4            52
Asphalt Tank Trucks, 10.000 Itrs                12             35           420
Asphalt Distributors, 5.000 ltrs                 2             45            90
Mechanic Brooms                                  2            11.5           23
Compressors with tools, 150 cu                  28             11           308
Vibratory Plates 17 x 18 inches                 20             2.5           50
Handpushed Rollers                              20              3            60
Primary and secondary crushers, 50 m3/hr         2            200          400
Primary crushers, 50 m3/hr                       4            100          400
Screening Plants 200 m3/hr                       7             50          350
Screening Plants 100 m3/hr                      14             25          350
Water Tank Trucks 6.000 ltrs                    27             35           945
Pick-up trucks, 750 kg                          35              8          280
Back-hoes, 0.5 cu yd                             7             35          245
Concrete Mixers                                 14              2           28
Lubricating Trucks, 5.000 kg                     7             32          224
Workshop Trucks, 4.000 kg                        7             30           210
Radio Sets                                      70             35          245
Total                                                                    5.000
Initial stock spare parts                                      10%         500
Source: Consultants Roy Jorgensen and Assoc.
March 1980



- 70 -
TABLE 6.4
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Equipment Overhaul Program
(in US$'ooo at June 1980 prices)
Equipment                      Number          Required
Type             Make             Model        of Units       Spare Parts
Tractors         Caterpillar          D7E            2               32.6
Tractor          Caterpillar          D6B           10               99.9
Tractor          Caterpillar           D5            2               15.2
Tractor          Caterpillar          D4D            1               16.0
Tractor          International        TD-15          4               10.6
Tractor          M. Ferguson          MF-550B        2               16.2
Tractor          Komatsu              D65A           1                4.8
Motorgrader       Caterpillar          120           3                4.8
Motorgrader       Galion               T500A         3               12.6
Motorgrader      Huber-Warco           F-1400       11               19.9
Motorgrader       Champion             D-562          7              13.4
Front end loader Caterpillar           920           4                7.2
Front end loader John Deere           JD-644A        2                1.8
Front end loader Kimko                JH-60B         3                2.6
Dump truck       Hino                 KB212          4               40.0
Compressor       Joy                   600           1                2.4
Total                                                               300.0
Source: Consultants Roy Jorgensen and Assoc.
March 1980



- 71 -
TABLE 6.5
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Investments in Workshops and Warehouses
(in US$'OOO at June 1980 prices)
A. Buildings
(i) Central Workshop
Warehouse expansion 315 m2                  35.0
Workshop expansion  975 m2                  97.0
(ii) Seven Divisional Workshops
New construction    4 x 640 m2             408.0
Expansion            3 x 370 m2            200.0
(iii) 22 Area Workshops
New construction   13 x 430 m2           1,072.0
Expansion            9 x 160 m2            188.0
2,000.0
B. Workshops Equipment and Tools
(i) For Central Workshop                       700
(ii) For Divisional Workshops                   500
(iii) For Area Workshops                         600
1,800
Source: Consultants Roy Jorgensen and Assoc.



- 72 -
TABLE 6.6
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
11
Targets for Equipment Availability and Utilization -
Type of Equipment                        Actual               Programmed
1979         1982          1984
1- Availability
Light vehicles                         70            75            80
Dump trucks                            60            70            75
Motorgraders                           54            60            70
Tractors                               46            60            70
Front end loaders                      55            60            70
Rollers                                60            65            70
Asphalt and gravel distributors        75            80            80
2- Utilization
Average all equipment                  50            60            70
1/  Availability   100   Total Time-Workshop Time
-Total Time
Utilization   100 x Available  Tim e-Standby Time
Source: MOP and mission's estimate
March 1980



- 73 -
TABLE 6.7
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network Condition, 1980
Road Condition
Good              Fair               Bad              Total
Without Maintenance          km(%)              km(M)              km(%)             km(%)
Program
Paved roads                1429 (47.9)       1312 (44.0)        242 (8.1)         2983 (100)
Gravel roads                763 (17.9)       1023 (24.0)       2476 (58.1)        4262 (100)
Earth roads                    -                  -             413 (100)          413 (100)
Total       2192 (28.6)      2335 (30.5)        3131 (40.9)        7658 (100)
With Maintenance
Program
Paved roads                2520 (84.5)        430 (14.4)         33 (1.1)         2983 (100)
Gravel roads               2813 (66.0)       1240 (29.1)        209 (4.9)         4262 (100)
Earth roads                 140 (33.8)        232 (56.2)         41 (10.0)         413 (100)
Total       5473 (71.5)      1902 (24.8)         283 (3.7)         7658 (100)
Source: Consultants Roy Jorgensen Associates Inc.
November 1979



- 74 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Participation Agreements between MOP and the
Provincial Councils of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro
1.        Based on a model text agreed with the Bank at negotiations, MOP
would sign, as a condition for effectiveness of the proposed project, indivi-
dual agreements with each one of the Provincial Councils (PC) of the three
provinces included in the proposed project. Each individual contract considers
the specific present road management capability of the respective PC (paras 5,
6 and 7).
2.        The Participation Agreement stipulates the total length of roads to
be improved by the four-year program (1981-1985) in each province, details
the list of roads and the type of improvement considered in the first year
program, indicates tentative lists of the roads to be improved in the subse-
quent years, and specifies the procedures and methodologies to be applied
every year, starting in 1981, to confirm the program of the subsequent year
(para 5).
3.        The agreement states that MOP would be responsible for the execution
of the four-year program and would ensure its financing, 55% through budgetary
allotments to be transferred as needed to the provinces and 45% by the proposed
Bank project. Within MOP, the Feeder Road Coordination Unit (UCCV) would be
specifically responsible for the coordination of planning, financing, engineer-
ing and construction of the roads included in the four-year program, and of
maintenance of secondary and feeder roads in the three project provinces.
4.        Duration of the agreement would be at least five years from signing
date to ensure an adequate period for execution of the four-year program.
Effectiveness of the agreement would be automatically extended beyond this
date, unless otherwise specifically agreed. The possibility of future partici-
pation of the PC in the financing of subsequent programs is considered.
5.        Responsibility for final engineering of the first-year tranche would
rest fully with MOP in accordance with the conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement. Guayas would assume about 50% of this responsibility in the second
and 100% in the third years; Los Rios and El Oro would assume about 25% the
second year, 50% the third and 75% the fourth year.
6.        All construction works would be executed by contract in accordance
with the conditions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. MOP would assume full
responsibility for contracting and supervision of the first year tranche,
the provinces to increase their share of responsibilities at the same rate
established in paragraph 5 preceding. Program execution by the PC would be
supervised regularly by MOP, and occasionally by the Bank.



- 75 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
7.        With reference to road maintenance, the agreement stipulates that MOP
would be responsible for maintenance of all main roads within each project
province and each PC would be responsible for maintenance of secondary and
feeder road -ithin its jurisdiction. Maintenance equipment for secondary and
feeder roads would be procured under the proposed Bank Loan. Equipment would
be owned and maintained by MOP, but operated under MOP supervision by the
provinces; maintenance and repair of the equipment would be performed in MOP's
workshop, but the corresponding costs would be debited to the provincial fund-
ing allotments for feeder road maintenance from MOP's budget. The maintenance
equipment provided by MOP would be used exclusively for secondary and feeder
road maintenance within each province. Before December 31, 1980, MOP and the
PC would sign a complementary "Feeder Road Maintenance Agreement" defining:
(a)  the roads to be maintained by MOP and the roads to be maintained
by the PC within each province during each of the years 1981-1984;
(b)  road maintenance activities to be carried out by the provinces;
(c)  estimated requirements for key inputs (equipment, funds) and
organizational and staffing arrangements required to carry out
the agreed maintenance programs;
(d)  administrative, organizational and financial arrangements for
maintenance equipment operation and repair; and
(e)  technical assistance required to initiate and to implement the
above program.
8.        The PC would provide adequate staffing for the implementation of
the program and provincial staff would act initially as counterpart to MOP
staff, would participate in MOP's training programs and would gradually assume
increased responsibilities according to agreed schedules.
March 1980



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization and Staffing of the Feeder Roads Coordination Unit
(Unidad Coordinacion de Caminos Vecinales, UCCV)
A.   Organization and Responsibilities
1.        The Feeder Roads Coordination Unit (UCCV) shall be established in
MOP under the authority of the Director General of Public Works. It will
have central responsibility to formulate overall policy guidelines on feeder
roads and to coordinate planning, execution and maintenance of feeder roads
countrywide. These responsibilities will be applied to full extent initially
only to the provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro to be included in the
secondary and feeder roads improvement program under the VI Highway Project.
UCCV will also coordinate the preparation of further feeder roads improvement
programs for the remainder of the country included in the Project and will
gradually expand its responsibilities to other provinces.
B.   Functions
2.        UCCV will assist MOP to meet the increasing requirements for feeder
road construction and improvement and strengthening of maintenance. In par-
ticular, UCCV will, through its chief, the Coordinator, execute the following:
(a) assist MOP in finalizing the Participation Agreements and the
Maintenance Agreements to be signed with the Provincial Councils (PCs)
of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro, to be approved by the Bank, and in negotiating
them with the PCs of each province;
(b) by September 30 each year, starting 1980, in coordination with the
PCs, review and submit to the Bank the list of Subprojects to be engineered
in the forthcoming year for execution in the subsequent year; this list should
contain a summary description of each Subproject with its scope and a confir-
mation of its priority ranking;
(c) by September 30 each year, starting in 1980, ensure completion and
delivery to the Bank for review and possible approval of the engineering and
economic confirmation studies for all Subprojects scheduled for construction
during the next year. Furthermore, propose arrangements for bidding on the
basis of regional groups of subprojects to constitute lots of adequate size
with no individual lot to have an estimated cost of less than US$0.3 million
equivalent and no group of lots to be tendered jointly to have an estimated
cost of less than US$2 million equivalent;
(d) coordinate award and supervise engineering and civil works construc-
tion contracts for feeder roads in the three Project Provinces and arrange
for gradual transfer of responsibilities to such Provinces according to the
stipulations of the respective Participation Agreements;



- 77 -
AN14EX 2
Page 2
(e) prepare, in coordination with the Maintenance Directorate and the
PCs of the three Project Provinces, and furnish to the Bank for review and
approval, secondary and feeder roads maintenance programs encompassing gradual
increase of maintenance activities related to the gradual strengthening of the
PCs' maintenance capability, and determine the manpower, equipment and budget-
ary requirements for the execution of such programs;
(f) coordinate assignment of required equipment and budgetary resources
to the three Project Provinces for adequate execution of their respective
feeder roads engineering, construction and maintenance responsibilities;
monitor the implementation by the provinces of the feeder roads construction
and maintenance programs and review them annually and adjust them to take into
account the experience gained; the monitoring indicators will refer, in
particular, to the following:
(i)  physical progress and funds used for the secondary and feeder
roads improvement in the three Project Provinces against the
agreed programs;
(ii) gradual transfer of engineering, construction and maintenance
of secondary and feeder roads from MOP to the PCs according to the
agreed targets;
(iii) scope and funding of the maintenance programs carried out each
year by the provincial authorities with the assistance of MOP; and
(iv) use of equipment acquired under the project and allocated by MOP
to provincial authorities, exclusively for road maintenance
purposes.
(g) assess the administrative, technical and financial capability by the
PCs of the three Project Provinces to assume their responsibilities in feeder
roads construction and maintenance programs; assess and make recommendations
to MOP and the PCs for adequate staffing of the provincial road authorities,
coordinate MOP's technical assistance to the provinces, and monitor participa-
tion of PCs' personnel in MOP's training programs;
(h) prepare, for transmission to the Bank, prior to any works execution,
a report on any roads under the project in the three provinces which may have
implications for rural development project being prepared with Bank assistance;
(i) conduct, in the last year of the four-year secondary and feeder
roads improvement program, a traffic survey on all improved roads and undertake,
additionally, an impact study for three selected roads or groups of roads, one
in each of the three Project Provinces, to reassess the validity of the assump-
tions used in the selection and evaluation of Subprojects;
(j) coordinate with the Directorate of Studies and other interested
agencies the preparation of feeder roads programs for the remainder of the
country (Annex 3) and prepare feeder roads construction, improvement and
maintenance programs for the other provinces;



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(k) assess, in coordination with all PCs, financial requirements for
feeder roads construction and maintenance programs throughout the country and
present recommendations for their inclusion in the annual MOP budgets;
(1) utilize the countrywide inventory of secondary and feeder roads
to be prepared for the studies mentioned under (i) above to assist MOP in the
reclassification of the total network and update such inventories;
(m) coordinate and supervise feeder roads activities of all other
central government or regional development organizations involved in feeder
roads planning, engineering, construction and maintenance;
(n) supply, for feasibility studies of proposed rural development
projects with a significant feeder roads component, the input needed to
establish the required additional network, including its standards and
specifications, estimates of construction and maintenance costs;
(o) monitor traffic growth in feeder roads and, in coordination with
MAG, growth of agricultural production in different regions of the country
to provide adequate criteria for future reviews of MOP's feeder roads policy;
and
(p) assess the training needs at all levels to enable UCCV to function
as the technical unit responsible for feeder roads in Ecuador after completion
of consultant assistance, and recommend an appropriate training program to
achieve this goal.
C.   Staffing Required
3.        The staffing requirements for the consulting services and MOP
counterpart staff for the functioning of the UCCV are set out below.  It is
estimated that a total of 148 man-months of consultant assistance will be
necessary. MOP shall furnish auxiliary personnel, office space and equipment
and traveling expenses.
MOP Counterparts
Chief of the Unit - a planner with a minimum of 10 years experience
in road planning, constrtuction and administration, particularly of
feeder roads and with ability to communicate with other professionals
and to coordinate activities of different departments and organizations.
Two Road Engineers - (for four years each) with a minimum of five
years' experience in directing and administering works related to
the design, construction and maintenance of feeder roads;
General Economist - (for four years) with experience similar to that
for the consultant general economist specified below, but with at
least two years' experience in Ecuador;
Equipment Specialist - (for four years) with experience similar to
that for the consultant equipment specialist specified below.



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Consultants
Technical Advisor - (for two years) an expert in planning of feeder
roads with a minimum of 10 years' experience preferably in construction
and administration of rural roads and in management and training of
professional and-support personnel; must be familiar with current
computer models for road planning, have ability to communicate with
administrative and planning staff and acceptable proficiency in Spanish.
Road Engineer - (for 22 months) a specialist in construction and
maintenance of feeder roads, with at least five years' experience in
planning of construction and maintenance and administration of low-
trafficked roads; must be able to develop and implemeat annual and
short-term work programs, direct work performance and evaluate and
control accomplishments, and must have acceptable proficiency in
Spanish.
General Economist - (for 16 months) a macroeconomist with at least
two years' experience in economic analysis of regions, including
resource bases and flows, agro-industrial development policies,
analysis of income and production data and forecasting of levels
and types of economic activity; must have acceptable proficiency
in Spanish.
Transport Economist - (for 16 months) with a minimum of three years'
experience in evaluation of transport projects, some in rural road
studies, including demonstrated ability in traffic analysis and
forecasting, analysis of vehicle operating costs and total transport
cost savings in a rural environment; must have acceptable proficiency
in Spanish.
Agricultural Economist- (for four years) with at least five years'
experience in analysis of agricultural production in Ecuador and in
planning and execution of Ecuadoran agricultural projects.
Equipment Specialist (for 12 months) a professional mechanical
engineer with experience in the operation and management of equipment
fleets in road maintenance works and on-the-job training of equipment
operators and mechanics; must have acceptable fluency in Spanish.
May 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization and Staffing of the Feeder Roads Coordination t'it (UCCV)
1980                1981                         1982                        1983                        1984                      Man-.Months
Position                   ....          .    A,M           O,N,1 J,F,M A,M,J JJ,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,D J                                                 Expa-      Ecuad. Counter-
__ _ ____-                    .f_ __ \ | | *  triates  Cons.
Chief of UCCV                              .___    -__ _                             - __  -_ _     _       __ -_ _ _    ___ -_                    _ _ -     _ _ -54
Technical Advisor                                         .                                                                                                            24
Road Engineer                                                                                                                                                          22
2 Road Engineers                                   - _-- -    - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                  96
General Economist                                                                                                                                                     16
General Economist  Counterpart                     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -                  - -48                                        o
Transport Economist                                             ,         -                                                                                           16
Agricultural Economist                                                                                                                                                          48
Equipment Specialist                                        1          l                                                                                              12
Equipment Specialist                             - - - - - - - _-- -- A - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                         _-----t--                                 48
Total                                   1                                                                                                                   90        48       246
Expenditures                                            Local         Fren
-    Consultants (expatriates)
_   Consultants ( Ecuadoran)                                 Expatriate Consultants  (90 man-months)    US$200,000              US$700,000
--  MOP Counterparts                                         Ecuadorian Consultants  (48  mat-months)          US$100,000
Er5-
SouTce:  MOP and mission's estimate
May 1980



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Preparation of
Further Feeder Roads Projects
I.   Objectives
The principal objectives of the study for which these Terms of
Reference are written are:
(a)  On the basis of existing information and studies, examine the
levels of production and productive potential (agriculture,
forestry, fishing and mining) in the zones being studied;
(b)  Assess the requirement for feeder roads in relation to (a), taking
into account development activities expected to occur;
(c)  Establish, through the analysis of economic benefits and costs,
priorities for the construction of new roads and improvement
or reconstruction of existing ones; and
(d)  Formulate a corresponding investment program.
II. Scope of the Study
A.   Study Zones
Two zones are to be studied under separate contracts:
Zone I
Provinces of Manabi, Esmeraldas, Carchi, Pichinca, Cotopaxi,
and Tungurahua.
Zone II
Provinces of Chimorazo, Bolivar, Canar, Azuay and Loja.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
B.   Activities
The activities that the consultants should carry out are:
(a)  Liaise with authorities which maintain the basic socio-economic
information necessary for the study;
(b) Obtain information from authorities which are responsible for
policies and strategies for the economic sectors which will be
served by the roads, taking into account related projects and
programs;
(c) Liaise with relevant national, regional and local public authorities
for collection of information on the characteristics of the existing
roads and the extent of ongoing or planned projects;
(d) Based on existing surveys of population and production in the study
area, define priority zones for development activities;
(e) Make a technical/economic survey of main, secondary and feeder
roads in the zone, to establish the information needed to define the
location of road improvement subprojects and to define the area of
influence of the feeder roads;
(f)  Execute an inventory of existing roads, defining existing standards
and condition of roads including, for example, geometric and road
surface characteristics necessary for the calculation of operational
costs of vehicles;
(g) Assess the existing extent and cost of road maintenance;
(h) Conduct traffic counts on those roads with a preliminary traffic
estimate of more than 20 vehicles per day. The counts on roads with
more than 50 vehicles per day could be done with automatic counters,
as long as the vehicular composition is also determined. The
periods of counting should last at least 48 hours;
(i) On a sample of roads the consultants should carry out surveys of
origin-destination and vehicle ownership necessary to facilitate
identification of the different groups benefiting from the projects;
(j) Estimate the operational costs of representative vehicles under the
expected conditions with and without recommended improvements;
(k) Estimate the economic and financial costs of construction of the
recommended road improvements, utilizing the design standards that
MOP provides for this study;



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(1)  Estimate the level and cost of maintenance needed for the improved
roads;
(m)  Following the methodology recommended by MOP, (i) effect an economic
evaluation of the various sub-projects and determine their relative
economic priority, and (iii) formulate the corresponding program of
investments and identify the different groups that will benefit from
the projects;
(n) Recommend appropriate administrative procedures for constructing
and maintaining feeder roads in the study area; and
(o) Prepare reports on analysis completed and conclusions reached.
III. Schedule for the Services, Specialists and Reports
A.    Executing Agency and Starting Date
The Direccion General de Obras Publicas of MOP, through the Direccion
de Estudios in coordination with UCCV, will be the executing agency of the
studies. The Consultants will begin their work 15 days from the date of the
signing of the respective contract, which will be written according to the
laws of the country.
B.   Obligations of MOP
MOP is obligated to provide the methodology to be used in the studies,
including:
(a) Guidelines for identification, evaluation and selection of the
feeder roads;
(b) Design standards for feeder roads;
(c) Guidelines and specifications for construction of feeder roads;
(d) Guidelines for maintenance of feeder roads;
(e) Instructions on administrative procedures in relation to the
preparation of projects, the design, construction and maintenance
of feeder roads;
(f) Forms and instructions for the road inventory; and
(g) Computer programs for the economic evaluation, processing of
inventory, etc.



- 84 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
C.   Specialists
The studies will be carried out by consortia of national and foreign
consulting firms. The schedule of consultant services which applies to each
of the two study teams is attached as Table 1.
D.   Duration and Reports
The studies will last 14 months, starting from the date of initia-
tion, which will be 15 days after the date of signing. During this period,
the Consultants should present monthly reports on activities carried out.
Also, they should present (i) an inception report four months from the date
of initiation, which should, inter alia, present conclusions relating to
II B(a)-(d) of these Terms of Reference; (ii) a draft final report after
12 months; and (iii) the final report 60 days after presentation of the final
draft and taking into account the comments thereon of the Government and the
World Bank. The consulting groups will be coordinated and supervised by the
Direccion General de Obras Publicas.
April 1980



- 85 -AN1EX 3
Table 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Specialist Services
Number of    1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  91  10  11  12
Persons    __
Project Director                  1                 --{         } --{-
Deputy Director                    I
Agricultural Engineer              1
Agricultural Engineer              2
Agricultural Economist             1                          --O-
Agricultural Economist             1
Roads Engineer                     1
Traffic/Inventory Engineer         1             --{-   -O}
Traffic/Inventory Engineer         1
Soils Engineer                    1                 _      _     _
Soils Engineer                    1
Maintenance Engineer               1
Maintenance Engineer               1
Systems Analyst                   1               --{)   I
Systems Analyst                   1
-o -0-{-<>- Foreign Specialist   40 man-months
Local Specialist      45 man-months per team
Source: MOP
May 1980



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
on Road Maintenance
1.   Objectives
Technical assistance for the four-year Road Maintenance Program
(1981-1984) would strengthen MOP's maintenance capacity, improve maintenance
planning and management, and build up road maintenance capacity in the three
project provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro. The principal objectives
are:
(a) to assist MOP in strengthening an adequate maintenance management
system and in the preparation of annual maintenance programs;
(b) to improve and expand the organization and procedures for road
maintenance execution in the field;
(c) to improve the overall management and utilization of the road
maintenance fleet;
(d) to assist MOP in planning adequate support to the Provincial
Councils (PC) of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro in the maintenance
of the provincial road networks; and
(e) to coordinate with the Personnel Training Program adequate
training of road maintenance personnel of MOP and of the three
provinces.
2.   Scope of Consulting Services
The technical assistance program will be carried out during two
years, under the authority of DGOP's Road Maintenance Directorate, in close
coordination with the Training Program and with the Feeder Roads Coordination
Unit (UCCV), will be based on the four-year road maintenance program prepared
by MOP with the assistance of consultants Roy Jorgensen and Associates and
will continue the road maintenance strengthening process initiated under the
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC). It will comprise, but not necessarily
be limited to the following functional areas:
(i) Maintenance Administration
(a) strengthen adequate procedures for planning, budgeting,
programing, controlling and reporting maintenance activities,
considering each element as a discrete component of an
integrated system;



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) strengthen the organizational framework at headquarters,
at the level of the divisions and areas, and in the field,
for effective execution of maintenance of the national network;
(c) assist in the buildup and strengthening of the road maintenance
capability of the PC of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro; and
(d) assist in developing and implementing improved general account-
ing practices, and in establishing a cost accounting system
appropriate to support maintenance management systems; dis-
tinguishing between costs for routine, periodic and emergency
maintenance activities for the main network and separating them
from costs for maintenance of the provincial network, and from
capital expenditures for road construction, rehabilitation
and improvements. The costs to be disaggregated into individual
components for labor, materials, equipment, parts, fuel,
administration and contract works for periodic maintenance.
(ii) Maintenance Program
(a) assist MOP in the preparation of economic analyses to determine
appropriate maintenance levels of service and priorities to be
assigned to different roads or sections, both for the main and
for the provincial networks;
(b) assist in preparation of annual maintenance programs and
corresponding budgets, both for the main and for the provincial
networks, and in the review of the program's execution; and
(c) coordinate the maintenance program with eventual road
rehabilitation and improvement programs; and
(d) assist MOP in monitoring the project's progress through
indicators such as agreed MOP maintenance targets for the
main network, MOP equipment availability and utilization,
scope and funding of maintenance programs for the provincial
networks and use of project procured equipment by the provinces.
(iii) Equipment and Workshops
(a) assist MOP in updating maintenance fleet condition and utili-
zation inventory, and in preparing programs for equipment
overhaul and scrapping;
(b) assist in review of equipment needs for scheduled highway
maintenance and in preparation of equipment replacement
schedules;
(c) assist MOP in the execution of workshops and warehouses
construction programs and in spare parts stores organization
and management practices for servicing of equipment;



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(d) assist in improving collection, recording and interpretation
of data on fleet availability and utilization, on equipment
output and operation costs; and
(e) assist in the preparation of bidding documents and evaluation
of proposals from suppliers of vehicles, equipment and spare
parts.
3.   Staffing
The professional staff required would be the following:
Internationally Recruited                          Man-months
(to be provided under the project)
Project Director, engineer/planner, specialist in
maintenance programing and administration                        26
Maintenance Engineer, specialist in scheduling and
execution of maintenance activities, will pay particular
attention to assistance to the provincial councils               22
Equipment Specialists, expert in all phases of equipment
management and repair                                            22
Accounting Specialist, specialist in cost accounting
and administrative procedures                                    12
Storekeeper, specialist in warehouse management                    12
94
MOP will provide adequate counterpart staff to work with the consultants and
to carry on execution of the four-year program, after expiration of the consul-
tants' two-year contract. Furthermore, MOP will provide supporting staff,
offices, vehicles and miscellaneous requirements. The PC will provide adequate
counterpart staff to gradually take over the maintenance programs of the provin-
cial networks.
4.   Schedule and Reporting
The project will be carried out over a period of 24 months. Reports
will be presented quarterly in Spanish to MOP, summarizing past accomplishment
as well as operational problems identified to permit a formulation of measures
necessary to overcome them and to proceed with the scheduled implementation.
5.   Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
MOP will be the contracting agency.
May 1980



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Outline of Job Description for Project Director
1.   Title:               Project Engineer
2.   Qualifications:      Should be a qualified professional civil engineer with
experience in maintenance of paved, gravel and earth
roads in tropical and mountainous regions, and extensive
experience in operational and administrative aspects
of road maintenance. Must be familiar with current
computer models for planning maintenance and rehabili-
tation works, with evaluation of highway pavement
conditions and with special measuring equipment. Must
have the experience and ability to evaluate results of
highway maintenance and rehabilitation programs,
introduce improvements and develop new programs when
necessary. Must have acceptable proficiency in
Spanish and ability to communicate, especially with
administrative and planning staff.
3.        The principal function of the project director will be to assist MOP
in the strengthening of the institutional improvements and planning capability
necessary in the area of maintenance. His responsibilities will include
coordinating the work of the consultants' team, the execution of related
administrative tasks and, in part, assisting the maintenance engineer in the
field work.
4.        The project director will, among other things:
(a)  assist in the preparation of reports required for management purposes
and budgetary controls;
(b)  assist in updating the highway maintenance program considering
priority ratings of road sections and maintenance operations;
(c)  monitor execution of highway maintenance to check if the recommen-
dations of the four-year program and its subsequent updatings are
being implemented;
(d)  assist in implementation of proposed improvements at the district
and area levels and in the project provinces;
(e)  collaborate with the Personnel Training Program groups for
maintenance personnel and equipment operators and provide the
necessary feedback to permit timely review necessary to ensure
the success of the program; and
(f)  prepare well documented quarterly reports presenting an in-depth
analysis of accomplishments, shortcomings and the reasons, and
suggest measures to correct problems that may arise in the
implementation of the four-year maintenance program.



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
Outline of Job Description for Maintenance Engineer
1.   Title:              Maintenance Engineer
2.   Qualifications:    Should be a university graduate in engineering with
ample experience in the implementation of modern
highway maintenance management, particularly work
scheduling, work methods, maintenance standards and
reporting procedures. Must be able to develop and
implement annual and short-term work programs and
schedules, direct work performance and evaluate and
control accomplishments, both on paved and unpaved
roads. Must be able to identify physical resources
needed to accomplish maintenance work programs and
be experienced in the proper assignment and utiliza-
tion of highway maintenance equipment. Must have
acceptable proficiency in Spanish and ability to
communicate, especially with field personnel.
3.        The principal function of the maintenance engineer is to guide and
assist in the successful field implementation of road maintenance management
and in the accomplishment of maintenance work programs.
4.        The maintenance engineer tasks will include, but not be limited to:
(a)  assisting the project director in evaluating and reviewing road
maintenance programs;
(b) appraising present road maintenance methods and standards and
assisting in their improvement;
(c) assisting MOP's divisional engineers in organizing and execution
of the road maintenance programs in the respective divisions;
(d) assisting in the improvement of maintenance works and their
monitoring and reporting;
(e) assisting in the improvement of road maintenance equipment
utilization; and
(f) assisting FRCU in the organization and improvement of feeder road
maintenance in the three provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro.



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Fa~ge &
Outline of Job Description for Equipment Specialist
1.   Title:              Equipment and Workshop Specialist
2.   Qualifications:    Professional mechanical engineer with experience in
the operation and management of equipment fleets and
workshops, including road maintenance plant and
vehicles, stocking and distribution of spare parts.
Must be familiar with procedures to increase equipment
availability, evaluate accomplishments and introduce
improvements as necessary. Past experience must
include designing workshop layouts and defining
workshop machinery and tools requirements. Must have
acceptable fluency in Spanish and an ability to
communicate with personnel in the field where the
specialist's presence will be mostly required.
3.        The primary responsibility of the equipment and workshop specialist
will be to implement working methods and procedures for equipment management
and operation of workshops proposed by the technical assistance under the
Fourth Highway Project.
4.        The specialist's tasks will include, but not be limited to:
(a)  assisting MOP in the organization of the new workshops and
warehouses to be constructed under the four-year maintenance
program;
(b) implementing programs, at the level of maintenance divisions and
areas, for efficient workshop administration, efficient equipment
repairs and preventive maintenance, scheduling of equipment renewal,
and implementation of procedures for scrapping of obsolete units;
(c) assisting in evaluation of equipment condition and location
inventories prepared by MOP engineers and coordinate programs
for improving equipment utilization;
(d)  assisting in the preparation of equipment specifications for
procurement processes and of inspection procedures after
equipment delivery; and
(e) collaborating with the Personnel Training Program group for
maintenance personnel and equipment operators and provide the
necessary feedback to permit timely review necessary to ensure
the success of the program.



- 92 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
Outline of Job Description for Accountant
1.   Title:              Accountant
2.   Qualifications:    Should be a university graduate in accounting with
experience in development and implementation of cost
accounting systems and improved administrative
procedures for highway maintenance. Must be familiar
with computerized cost accounting practices and
procedures, including evaluation of results and
introduction of operational improvements as necessary.
Should be proficient in Spanish.
3.        The primary responsibility of the accountant wll be to assist MOP
in the establishment of computerized financial and cost accounting procedures
and budgeting control systems and the implementation of administrative
procedures required to support the maintenance organization. In particular,
he should assist MOP in the establishment of a budgeting and accounting system
to separate the road maintenance budget from other MOP activities and to
distinguish between routine, periodic and emergency maintenance and disaggregat-
ing expenditures into individual components for labor, materials, equipment,
parts, fuel, administration and contracted works for periodic maintenance.



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Maintenance Program
Personnel's Assignment Calendar
1 98 1                    19 82                     1 98 3                     19 8 4              Man- Months
Position
J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S,O,N,D J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,D J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,D J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,D   Cons.  Count.
Project Director                    l                                                                                                 26
Counterpart               ----t--     ----_-_                         _____ _t _   __ ----t--                       -                        48
Maintenance Engineer          i                                                                                                       22
Counterpart              _                                                                                -  - - --- t--------------48
Equipment Specialist                                                                                                                  22
Counterpart                                                           ------------4-                                                          48
Accounting Specialist                                                                                               I                 12
Counterpart                                                     --     ----------                     __+ __--                               48
Storekeeper                                                                                                                           12
Counterpart                            -------+                                                                                               48
TOTAL                                                                                                                            94     240
Consultants (expatriates)                              Expenditures                                 Local             Foreign
Consultants (60 man-months with MOP
--- MOP Counterparts 
and 34 man-months with the provinces   US$200,000            US$700,000     
Source: Mission's estimates
May 1980



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
for the Personnel Training Program
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOP) plans to carry
out a four-year (1981-1984) program for the training and updating of MOP
personnel at all levels and for road personnel of the provinces of Guayas,
Los Rios and El Oro included in the four-year (1981-1984) secondary and feeder
roads improvement program. The training program will upgrade about 1,500
trainees (Table 1) and will consist of:
(a) strengthening of the MOP Programing Directorate's Training
Department;
(b) construction, organization and operation of a Training Center
at Calderon (10 km north of Quito) or a similar location;
(c)  continuation and strengthening of present training activities;
and
(d) participation of selected personnel in short training courses
abroad.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The objectives of the technical assistance are to:
(a) review the manpower requirements of MOP and of the three provinces
in the four-year period 1981-1984, with particular attention to the
four-year road maintenance program and the four-year secondary
and feeder roads improvement program in the three provinces;
(b) review the design of the detailed training and upgrading program
aimed at producing qualified personnel required to implement road
planning, engineering, construction, maintenance and administration
for MOP and for the three provinces;
(c) implement the program and, at the same time, provide on-the-job
training for Ecuadoran counterparts and instructors; and
(d) review training and personnel policies affecting recruitment,
career development, salaries and a system of incentives to create
adequate conditions for the successful completion of the program.



- 95 -
ANiTEX 5
III. SCOPE AND SERVICES
General
3.        The technical assistance will begin by January 1, 1981 to organize
and review the four-year training program which should be fully in operation
by July 1, 1981. The technical assistance will consist of:
(a) a training advisor (expatriate) responsible for designing the
training program, supervising its implementation and enhancing
the capability of the Chief of the Training Department. He should
also advise MOP regarding a reorganization of all personnel actions
related to staff development;
(b) two road engineers, one expatriate to act as Chief of the Training
Center and one Ecuadoran to assist him in conducting training for
maintenance personnel in the Center and on-the-job training in the
MOP divisions and in the three project provinces; and
(c) two senior instructors, one expatriate and one Ecuadoran to train
mechanics and assistants in the Training Center, in the MOP divi-
sions and in the three project provinces.
4.        Technical assistance experts will be responsible for all aspects of
the training program and coordinate their work with the Chief of the Training
Department and engineers in charge of road maintenance and rehabilitation in
MOP's divisions and in the project provinces. The functional character of
this program will require that the goals relating to the number of people
trained for different job categories be in consonance with the current and
future needs of road development programs set by MOP. The success of the
execution of the training program will depend upon thorough coordination of
the Center's activities with the Director responsible for field maintenance
to ensure that equipment for training mechanics and operators is available
and operable when needed and that there are jobs to perform when trainees are
sent into the field to carry out productive road maintenance operations.
Review of Manpower Requirements
5.        The training advisor will:
(a) review the personnel requirements of MOP and of the three
provinces in the four-year 1981-1984 period and prepare an
inventory of personnel requiring training and upgrading;
(b) determine the skills and knowledge required for maintenance
personnel at all levels; and
(c) assess the training needs of existing MOP personnel and those
of the three provinces.



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Preparation of a Detailed Training Program
6.        Upon completion of the review under paragraph 5, the training advisor
will assist the Chief of the Training Department to prepare a detailed program
to meet the personnel needs and to, inter alia:
(a) update the number of personnel by category and level to be
trained during the four-year period, establishing priority needs;
(b) prepare a detailed training program for different categories and
levels of personnel, taking into consideration IMOP's manpower
requirements and budgetary constraints. The program could be
presented along the following lines:
(i) a two-year Priority Program to start as soon as resurces
become available under the Sixth Highway Project;
(ii) a Continuing Program which would follow and consolidate
action taken during the Priority Program.
The phased program will be updated annually in consultation
with the Bank;
(c) set up a Training Center at Calderon or other suitable site
for theoretical and productive training of road foremen, operators,
drivers and mechanics for implementation of the road maintenance
program;
(d) review the number and categories of Ecuadoran instructors required,
set up programs for their training and determine the number of local
lecturers available and expatriate lecturers required to conduct the
courses for upgrading engineers, economists and administrative
personnel of MOP and of the three provinces;
(e) determine the training equipment and materials required, including
audio-visual aids;
(f) prepare agreements with SECAP and with the universities to continue
the present training courses for professionals and administrative
personnel;
(g) select instructors and professionals to be sent to specific training
courses abroad and monitor effectiveness of these courses;
(h) prepare the annual budget of training activities; and
(i) recommend any other action considered necessary for the satisfactory
implementation of training.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Implementation of the Training Program
7.        Following the Government's agreement on the training program, the
technical assistance experts will:
(a) implement the training program; and
(b) assist in selecting and training Ecuadoran counterparts and
instructors to take.over the training activities within a
reasonable time.
Review of Existing Training Activities and Personnel Policies
8.        The Training Advisor, in collaboration with the Chief of the Training
Department and all Chiefs of DGOP's Directorate and the Director of MOP's
Personnel Department, will:
(a) review existing training procedures and, if necessary, recommend
appropriate changes, including a new training policy; and
(b) assess the effectiveness of current policies regarding recruitment,
career development and remuneration and recommend any organizational
changes required to create an environment in which training can be
most effective.
IV. SCHEDULE FOR REPORTING
9.        MOP will be responsible for preparing the following reports in
Spanish within the time limits specified:
(a) an inception report within three months of the starting date,
detailing training needs and recommendations for a four-year
detailed program to meet these needs, including measures required
to implement the program. The report will contain a concise
first chapter summarizing the contents;
(b) quarterly progress reports describing the work carried out
during the previous three months and the work program for
the following three months; the progress report will
identify actual and anticipated difficulties and delays in
implementing the training program and will suggest remedies;
(c) a brief report on personnel policies and recommended
improvements;
(d) two months prior to the training advisor's completion of
service, a draft final report will be prepared summarizing
(i) work performed; (ii) progress made; (iii) benefits from
training program; (iv) areas where progress has been un-
satisfactory; and (v) recommendations for further action;



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
(e) a final report within one month of receipt of comments on
the draft final report from the Government; and
(f) other reports as may be reasonably requested by the Government.
Two copies of all reports will be sent to the Bank as soon as issued for
information.
V. GOVERN2MENT CONTRIBUTION
10.       The Government will:
(a) appoint a Chief of the Training Department, who will act as
counterpart to the training advisor;
(b) appoint a road engineer (or a road construction/maintenance super-
intendent) and a senior instructor for operators as counterparts to
the two road maintenance technical assistance experts; assignment of
the experts will be contingent upon the appointment of deputy
instructors;
(c) appoint two mechanic superintendents to work with the technical
assistance experts responsible for training of mechanics at the
center;
(d) appoint a road foreman, a chief mechanic, and a senior equipment
operator to be trained initially as assistant instructors;
(e) obtain the Bank's approval for the appointment of Ecuadoran
instructors recruited from the private sector;
(f) select, with Bank approval, adequate local lecturers or obtain
the Bank's approval for the employment of foreign lecturers to
conduct specialized courses on specific aspects of highway
planning, engineering, construction and maintenance, or courses
for transport economists;
(g) reach adequate arrangements with SECAP and the universities to
conduct specialized courses for professional and administrative
personnel;
(h) obtain the Bank's approval for personnel selected for training
abroad;
(i) make adequate arrangements for assigning suitable personnel
to be trained as intructors;
(j) make adequate arrangements for releasing existing and future staff,
in a timely fashion, to undertake agreed training course; and
(k) allocate sufficient funds to finance local recurrent costs of
the training program.



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
Outline of Job Description for Training Advisor
1.   Title:                     Training Advisor
2.   Duration of Assignment:  16 months
3.   Duty Station:               MOP Headquarters, Quito with frequent
field trips to Calderon Center, and
other areas as needed.
4.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to university level.
He should be a road maintenance specialist, preferably an
engineer, with five to seven years responsible experience in
managing training activities, particularly in establishing
programs and facilities. Mloreover, he should be capable of
(i) organizing a comprehensive policy of staff development
through practical and theoretical training; (ii) taking part
in active training by conducting seminars and discussions on
a specific road maintenance problem; and (iii) reviewing and
recommending improvements of existing personnel policies;
(b) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(c) fluency in Spanish.
5.   Responsibilities
The Training Advisor will be responsible for:
(a) establishing and coordinating training policies;
(b) identifying manpower training needs to carry out the road
maintenance and improvement program;
(c) preparing the required training programs, taking into
consideration existing conditions in Ecuador and MOP's
administrative structure;
(d) determining the resources required to conduct the training
program;
(e) developing methodology for personnel training and quality
control of training activities;
(f) approving training curricula and materials;



- 100 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7
(g) implementing the training program, bearing in mind the necessary
coordination of activities between the Training Department, Calderon
and the field, availability of personnel and other constraints;
(h) maintaining liaison with senior officers, division engineers and
consultants of MfOP to obtain their cooperation in all matters
related to training and staff development policies;
(i) carrying out workshops/seminars on road management and related
topics for high level staff;
(j) designing an evaluation system within the training program both
to monitor the results of training while it is being performed
and to evaluate the effectiveness of completed programs;
(k) reviewing and making recommendations for the improvement of
existing personnel policies, in collaboration with MOP's Personnel
Department;
(1) taking necessary measures to ensure the satisfactory implementation
of all seminars and programs required to meet MOP's training needs,
including the preparation of the Chief of the Training Department to
take over his general departmental responsibilities, and to supervise
the training of Ecuadoran instructors.
3.   In discharging his duties, the Training Advisor will report directly to
the Director General of Public Works.
May 1980



- 101 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8
Outline of Job Description for Chief of the Training Center
1.   Title:                     Chief of the Training Center
2.   Duration of Assignment:  12 months
3.   Duty Station:               Calderon Training Center
4.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to university level or
equivalent - Road Engineer or Senior Road Construction/Maintenance
Superintendent;
(b) effective previous training and subsequent extensive field
experience in road construction and maintenance;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
training in road construction and maintenance at supervisory level;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control work activities and to
maintain a team spirit;
(e) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) fluency in Spanish.
5.   Responsibilities
The Chief of the Traning Center will be responsible for:
(a) planning, organizing and implementing practical productive
training of personnel assigned to the Training Center, as well as
improvement/maintenance works to be carried out while training
takes place; during the last quarter of his service, he will have
only an advisory role while an Ecuadoran staff will manage the
Center;
(b) providing on-the-job training to road foremen, overseers, equipment
operators, drivers and certain levels of mechanics, and ensuring
that they also receive theoretical instructions;
(c) supervising the activities of the chief equipment operator
and chief mechanic assigned to the Center;
(d) ensuring an adequate supply system to enable the Center to be
properly stocked with materials, lubricants, etc.;



- 102 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9
(e) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and other
resources allocated to the Center; and
(f) training an Ecuadoran counterpart, and supervising the training of
other counterparts assigned to the Center.
6.        In discharging his duties, the Chief of the Center will report to
the Chief of the Training Department through the Training Advisor.



- 103 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 10
Outline of Job Description for Senior Instructor (Mechanics)
1.   Title:                     Senior Instructor (Mechanics)
2.   Duration of Assignment:  12 months
3.   Duty Station:               Calderon Center or other suitable location
4.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent--Mechanical Superintendent or Senior Workshop Foreman;
(b) Sound practical training and subsequent extensive practical
experience in the maintenance and repair of heavy road con-
struction/maintenance equipment, dump trucks and other road
vehicles; institutional training experience would be an
advantage;
(c) Experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
programs in maintenance and repair of road equipment;
(d) Capacity to plan, organize and control activities of others,
while maintaining a team spirit;
(e) Working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) Fluency in Spanish.
5.   Responsibilities
(a) Planning, organizing and implementing basic and upgrading training
of mechanics assigned to Calderon (or other suitable location)
as well as rehabilitation of road equipment;
(b) Developing, in collaboration with the Training Advisor and the
Chief of the Training Department, basic training materials to be
used for those trainees who have not benefited from prior training;
(c) Ensuring an adequate and timely supply of spare parts to carry
out productive training, i.e., repairing existing broken-down
equipment;
(d) Ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and materials
and other resources allocated to the Center; and
(e) Training an Ecuadoran counterpart and other instructors
assigned to the Center.
6.        In discharging his duties, the Senior Instructor (Mechanics) will
report to the Chief of the Training Department through the Training Advisor.



- 104 -
ANNEX 5
Page 11
Draft Policy Statement on Training
1.        The economic and social growth of Ecuador requires the development
and maintenance of an efficient transportation system. The Government foresees
an investment of S/ 24,000 million for the period 1981-1984, and such a large
investment must be backed up by the training and upgrading of staff necessary
to develop, administer, and maintain the present and future road network.
2.        MOP intends to strengthen its training structure and, with the
assistance of existing national training facilities, plans to meet the training
needs of MOP's personnel responsible for road maintenance as quickly as
possible.
3.        MOP will enter into a contract with consultants experienced in this
field of work and will require them to define the manpower training needs,
develop a comprehensive training plan including the strengthening of the
existing Training Department, establish a training center for foremen,
operators and mechanics in Calderon or other suitable sites, and recommend
improvements of personnel policies. In addition, they will be required to
assist in developing the necessary courses and to implement agreed training
programs.
4.        Training activities will involve low and middle-level supervisors,
as well as high-level management staff.
5.        MOP will ensure, starting in 1981, that financial and physical
resources will be made available to carry out these activities. In addition,
to ensure the efficient implementation of the training effort. All senior
staff and engineers of districts and areas connected with road maintenance
activities will be required to collaborate closely with the Training Department
by making available adequate number of personnel to be trained as instructors,
and by releasing existing and future staff, in a timely fashion, to undertake
agreed training courses.



- 105-                   ANNEX5
Table 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Number and Classification of Personnel to be Trained
Numbers to be Trained
Classification                           1981      1982      1983     1984    Total
Engineers                                 40        30        20       20       110
Economists                                 5         5        -        -         10
Administrative Personnel                  30        30        30       30       120
Foremen                                   30        30        30       30       120
Equipment Operators/Drivers              150       120        90       90       450
Mechanics and Assistants                   80       60        40       40       220
Skilled Laborers                         120       120       110      100       450
Training Abroad                            5         5         5        5        20
Total                                    460       400       325      315    1,500
Source: MOP and mission estimates
March 1980



- 106 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of the Four Year Training Program (1981-1984)1/
(In US$ June 1980 prices)
Description                                  Local    Foreign    Total
(a) Improvement of Training Facilities
Civil Works for the Training Center         300,000   300,000   600,000
Workshop equipment and tools                   -      140,000   140,000
Special training equipment, includ-
ing Audio-Visual aids                          -       60,000    60,000
Subtotal                 300,000   500,000   800,000
(b) Technical Assistance and Training Courses
3 Expatriate consultants (40 man-months)    100,000   400,000   500,000
2Localconsultants (48 man-months)           100,000   100,000   200,000
Lecturers for Professional Courses             -      200,000   200,000
SECAP Courses                               200,000      -       200,000
Training Abroad                                -      100,000   100,000
Subtotal                  400,000   800,000 l,200,000
Total                     700,000 1,300,000 2,000,000
1/ Does not include expenditures for counterpart personnel nor maintenance
equipment for practical training, to be supplied by MOP.
Source: MOP and mission estimates
March 1980



- 107 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 3
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Four Year Training Program (1981-1984)
MOP Budget Requirements
(in US$'000 at June 1980 prices)
1981   1982   1983   1984   Total
A. For Capital and Technical Assistance Expenditures
Civil Works                                      300                           300
Expatriate Consultants                            50     50                    100
Local Consultants                                 25     25      25     25     100
SECAP                                             50     50      50     50     200
Subtotal                                    425    125     75      75     700
B. For Recurrent Expenditures
MOP Training Staff                               100    100    100    100      400
Assistant Personnel                               50     50      50     50     200
Per diem for Trainees                             55     60      60     55     230
Training Equipment Operation                     130    155    155    130      570
Materials                                         25      25     25     25     100
Subtotal                                    360    390    390    360   1,500
TOTAL                                       785    515    465    435   2,200
Source: Mission estimates
March 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTM HIGHWAY PROJECT
Four Year Training Program (1981-1985)
Technical Assistance and MOP Staff for the Training Program
_  _    _   1981         1982                     1983                     1984                     Man-Months
-  Position                  _     _           -      _           _            _   .                                           . Expa-    Ecuad.  Counter-
J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,D J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,  J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,D J,F,M A,M,J J,A,S O,N,D  triates  Cons.   part
Chief of Training Department                                    48
Technical Advisor                             ___16
Road Engineer                          .            _                                                                                         12
(Chief Training Center)
Road Engineer                                                                                                                                          24
(Deputy Chief  Training Center)
MOP Road Engineer                                                                                                                                                48
Senior Instructor                                                                                                                             12
Senior Instructor                                                                                                                                      24
MOP Senior Instructor                                  48
2 MOP Mechanic&l Instructors         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                 96
1 MOP Foreman                                                                                                                                                    48
1 MOP Chief Mechanic                                                                                                                                             48
1 MOP Equipment Operator                                  48
Expatriate Lecturers_                                                                                                                         16
MOP   Lecturers                       -  -   -    -  -  -    -  -   -    -  -   -    -  -  -    -  -  -   -   -  -   -  -   -   -  -   -   -  -  t               36
TOTAL                                                                                                                           56        48      420          t
Source:  MOP and mission's estimates                 Consultants (expatriates)                                                                      Local   Foraigu 0
Expatriate Consultants   (56 man-months) 100,000  600,000    41
-    Consultants (Ecuadorans >                           Ecuadorian Consultants   (48 man-months) 100,000  100,000
May 1980                                        --  MOP Counterparts



- 109 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Land Transport Planning
I.   Introduction
This proposal concerns the activities and duties to be carried
out by UPCT in MOP in the next few years and the activities foreseen in the
planning of the land transport sector. It concentrates on the land transport
sector, considering that the planning activities for the other subsectors -
maritime, aviation and pipelines - will be executed by other state organiza-
tions. The coordinating role for sectoral planning will be carried out by the
Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo (CONADE). An agreement has been reached
between MOP and the Ministry of Government on UPCT's role as research and
planning unit for the land transport subsector. The program presented is
divided into two parts. The first part concerns the basic approach to the
principal subjects that UPCT will handle during the period 1980-1984, which
will facilitate UPCT's direct contribution to the preparation of Ecuador's
five-year plan, 1985-1989, to be accomplished by CONADE by the end of 1984.
The second part specifies the work program proposed for 1980-1982. The tasks
indicated in the program are based on the land transport sector's most urgent
needs and on the need to strengthen UPCT and increase its professional capacity.
TI. Work Program 1980-1984
A.   General Objectives
The proposed Work Program (1980-1984) for UPCT has the following
general objectives:
(1) Periodic updating of the investment program for the principal
road network and preparation of a long-term investment plan
for 1985-2000.
(2) Regional plans for highway investments including the secondary
road network and urban connections.
(3) Special studies according to sector needs.
(4) Preparation of an information system for the sector.
B.   Detailed Description of Objectives
(1) Updating of the Investment Plan for the Main Network
The Work Program carried out by UPCT (1977-1980) included
the preparation of a preliminary Investment Plan for 1980 to 1985 and for
1986 to 1995.



- 110 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
This plan has the following shortcomings:
(i) The basic source of information used has several gaps
because of the lack of an organized system of data collection
in MOP. The data utilized are not necessarily valid, being
based on estimates, not on detailed studies;
(ii) Many variables in projections are based on evaluations and
estimates only, because of the lack of basic transport studies,
for example, route systems for passenger transport. The lack
of these studies forced the use of broad estimates, the
potential variations of which could significantly influence
final results;
(iii)  It is estimated that, during the period to be studied, many
projections and economic factors will be modified because of
the dynamic nature of Ecuador's development and its impact
on the transport sector. The planning should therefore go
through an iterative process, taking structural changes into
consideration. One of the most important prerequisites for
this process is the improvement of the information base.
(2) Regional Plans
The network studied under the past technical assistance included
only the primary network, representing about 13% of the country's total road
network. The analysis of the secondary road network will be another objective
of UPCT's work program. Generally, the methodology applied to the secondary
road network bears little similarity to that utilized in the evaluation of
the primary network. The methodology is based on detailed knowledge of
regional and local economies and related economic models.
(3) Special Studies
Special economic studies to analyze the factors affecting the
behavior of transport users will be carried out as necessary to improve the
knowledge of basic variables used in the planning process, to establish the
required basis for policies or to implement specific actions.
(4) Data Collection
UPCT's role is to coordinate and set the criteria for these studies,
to define priorities and the methodology to be used, to participate in the
preparation and to organize data elaboration. UPCT will assume direct respon-
sibility for the execution of origin and destination studies at the national
level. The creation of a system of information includes coordinating activ-
ities with other institutions involved in the collection of data, i.e., INEC,
CONADE, etc.



- 111 -
ANNEX 6
III. Work Program 1980-1982
A.   Task 1 - Investment Plan for the Highway Network
(1) Investigation of Present Network
The updating and modification of the proposed investment plan
will be executed in two phases:
(i) The first phase will be concerned with the updating of
information for the long-term investment plan. UPCT will
use the information collected by the Directorate of Studies
(traffic counts and road inventory) for the existing models
use by UPCT. It is also proposed that UPCT execute an
origin and destination survey at the national level by the
end of 1981;
(ii) The second phase will be the carrying out of the medium-term
investment plan. This phase will include two principal
elements:
(a) detailed investigation of intermodal projects
directly influencing investments in the primary
road network;
(b) analysis and detailed economic evaluation of alter-
natives related to the primary road network with
special reference to interchanges and other projects
that could improve traveling conditions in the network.
(2) Expansion of the Analyzed Network
The scope of the road network analyzed will be increased to include
the secondary network, excluding feeder roads. The increase will be executed
gradually, two or three provinces at each stage. The criteria for the selection
of regions to be investigated will be the level of existing planning. The
process will include development of methodology and data collection. The data
will also serve as a base in the carrying out of the national plan for the
primary network in each region (see Task 1.1), and for the more detailed
models that will be used in the regional plan.
B.   Task 2 - Special Studies
(1) Trip Analysis
Based on the existing information and the information collected
for different modes, a study will be made to establish the factors that
generate trips in Ecuador. Factors such as the number of trips per capita,
per family, the distance and the reasons for travel will help in the modifica-
tion of the models for projection of transport demand (modal split, motoriza-
tion level, etc.). Complementary surveys could be effected in metropolitan
areas which do not now possess sufficient information.



- 112 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
(2) Inter-Urban Public Transport
The scope of inter-urban transport will be investigated to establish
the proper operation of this service based on social and economic norms and
criteria. The structure of routes, frequency of service, tariffs and types
of buses recommended will be investigated, and a projection will be made for
any recommended additional vehicle fleet required for such service.
(3) Freight Transport Industry
Based on the 1980 trucking industry survey, a study will be made
of the structure, cost and level of competition in the industry, including the
tariff system, and measures will be proposed for improving, if necessary,
the efficiency of the freight industry.
(4) General Automotive Transport
This study will address subjects related to regulation policy and
the future development of automotive transport. The subjects studied will be
the following:
(i) policy for importation of vehicles and spare parts;
(ii) automotive industry in Ecuador;
(iii) policies and procedures for registering and controlling
vehicles to be effected in cooperation with the Ministry
of Government;
(iv) implications of mandatory auto insurance;
(v) automotive policy with respect to the resolutions of the
Andean Pact.
(5) Road Safety
In this study, road accidents in Ecuador will be analyzed and
Government policy and actions will be recommended in regard to the user
(drivers and pedestrians), the vehicle, and road and traffic related factors
e.g., road signalization.
(6) Railways Studies
Undertake an economic assessment of proposals for railway invest-
ments to cost in excess of US$10 million.
(7) Road User Charges
Study the structure and appropriate level of road user charges
and taxes.



- 113 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
C.   Task 3 - Systems of Information
The assembly of UPCT's data base will be continued, with the purpose
of completing it and putting it in computer readable form. UPCT will try to
utilize the existing computer and other files in other organizations and will
collaborate with the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos to advance
the collection of information from different organizations of the transport
sector.
D.   Technical Assistance to UPCT
Considering the duties and functions of UPCT during the first two
years (1980-1982), it is estimated that it will have to receive additional
assistance on some subjects already addressed during the past technical assis-
tance (systems analysis, planning and economic analysis) and additional
assistance in new areas (public transport, cargo transport, etc.). The
estimated technical assistance is 100 man-months and is programed for 24 con-
secutive months starting from September 1980, taking into account that the
present technical assistance program will be extended by the Government until
the end of August 1980 without extending the existing World Bank-financed
contract.
The consultants needed are as follows:
1.   Program Chief                              24 man/months
2.   Transport Economist                        22 man/months
3.   Statistician                               24 man/months
4.   Systems Analyst                            15 man/months
5.   Public Transport Service Specialist        20 man/months
6.   Railroad Expert                             5 man/months
7.   Public Transport Economist                 15 man/months
8.   Cargo Transport Economist                   5 man/months
TOTAL          130 man/months
IV. Local Counterparts
UPCT's budget for 1980 corresponds to the projected needs until the
end of the year, according to the work program proposed earlier. The counter-
part staffing and budget for the cooperative program with the Ministry of
Government have also been established. For 1981, an increase in personnel and
services has been determined, which is taken into account in the cost estimates.
May 1980



- 114 -
ANNEX 7
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   "Estudio de Caminos Vecinales" - Israeli Institute of Transport Planning
and Research, Quito - 11 Volumes:
(1)  Final Report (Summary)
(2)  Agriculture
(3)  Road Inventory
(4)  Road Construction and Maintenance Costs
(5)  Transport
(6)  Economic Evaluation
(7)  Guide for Economic Evaluation
(8)  Administrative Procedures
(9)  Design Manual
(10) Consruction Manual
(11) Maintenance Manual
2.   Miscellaneous papers and printouts relating to the feeder road program.
3.   Miscellaneous printouts relating to the maintenance program.
4.   Miscellaneous documents relating to agreements reached at negotiations.
April 1980



ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS
ORGANIZATION CHART
M anster     m __Ednrnmrrree
Su Eretary 3u li  IETEL    l
I
Public Relutions  r 
Legal Departmenit |                                   RailwaVs
a                              R
Dn-ector     Director        Director                                                 a 
a,          Admin,strat,on,  Finances       Plann~ng                                                t-o 
0-~~ ~~~ iaZ                                                   0
wo           o; -1 m           0v         Ca'Lio_.                                                                   X  
tX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a CT             X                                                                   C   T
JanuarV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 198                                                          aol Bank-2 2
0 
is  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~ fi,'5 0S   0      t   a  a
a,                        IC                     5         I'   I-         a    a                            E
as   a ~~~~~~~~~~    C~0        76   a                     IC            S   C      u                          o   a
'~~~  i ~~~~  a,    _      a             a   us~~~~~~,    :     &   0          a 
a0          a   a         i   a    o    -   0    a    a        0                                            u -    0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
0                                                                           Ci I~~~~~LiL
Source MOP
January 1980                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank -21208






ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Model Organization Chart of a Provincial Council
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL                        COMMITTEES
PREFECT                           PUBLIC RELATIONS
LEGAL DEPARTMENT                                                'HPERSONNEL
TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT                FINANCE DEPARTM ENT              ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
ROADS         j                  ACCOUNTING                           SECRETARY
-4     BUILDINGS        l                  TREASURER                            ARCHIVES
LABORATORY                           REVENUES                            SERVICES
SUPERVISION                     SUPPLY AND STORES                                                                |-
VWORKSHOP
World Bank-21522
Source: CONA3E
March 1980






5 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
HIL
ID  
m            5/ 
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~  
0~~~~~0






./     \          8E CECUADOR                                            aNCI-O.A                                     -
-;/ zA ,SIXTH  HIGHWAY PROJECT  
Kc- 91  t    !  LOS RIOS           C     Four -Year  Secondary  and   Feeder  Roads                                       EL GU ABO  A       /
Improvement Progrom                        FE2Hl1C7    EmA             o   mE
N-'8  V lof A Y At\S   \   i  2             Province  of  Guayas                           L, UIA                    )
y        GVAYAS 4                                                                                                                                            EXISTING  ROADS
n,. S; ANRA     .VELGENA0j>.  , - ce Under ConEtr ctzon
*-NANTA _ELENA                                                                                                                                                     inpaRed
zfs - i' /                             -                                                                Xl J YEAR PROGRAM:
- rf>,;r  ,3    n !\<0-, /            E-_                                            /                          V                                                 Second
. Q;ceuffW/ .s.... ..... 2.:  ;.                                                                                            /                                EL 0    6C   / rhrd
O'er!              r.SurrR~~~~EIERS                                                   I.RL'SvAT              F/o
_ ~~~~~~u.                                                               nc r~F                 El _AJY  0 <c RI UA  ''-'' FoorNir
EL CR0                                                                   FENGSbrRvr
, ,f,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.   <  ELA                                                   O    R          .| 1                                       Provincialo Boundaries
\  ~~~~  ~~~ ~~~ y 82 ~~~~~~~~~ HC>D4iA X~~~~~~~-.    InRernaltrocol Bouedarras
Re '                                                                                                                                                                                                    30   Yre
AMA0:                        CsAAT                                   Cf E FSAEO N ,  \.VSD      EAA;L   L lAN. /  ).                         f I( El
EDREFECER  -~~~~~~~~~  flAB FAN EAt~B .. .,
T, li--           EDRL2SER                         CS E    l             *
p                                  ELGeVE. D    E3E    5TR FE   e      ABC EA         5T                                ER
0    ;                                  (           i/~~~~~  CA RfzaL; ~~~~~~~ ;,  'J  .   f > 1                 <                 /  "RCIE  A7
Z3t 0 0                \                      < X   ,                         ,  7<, j <t 4 )  <  .X<>                                                                               2s30~~~~~KW   R A
'   <H .AS  r   -         LV 1'  FLEA Nj|                      E --i : LACALEEE OMPEAT
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVCAFA <                                                              s<Ir 1?     >-wAGy         9
REosorS  -~~    =    tl_MA    V LLA EE RELA
P~O IRL n GNOMeBn OPj                                                      VE(r
p                                                                       PEDR-,                                                              RA~o  <  ,1  AROMT
J ~       ~ ~ ~~~ _'V    \' X                                 E3ED  E IC FN'MILA  '
YILCVAETERS 1 i ,. e 7 ( SEDDEFANE                                       c                    L O ER IR  o                                                         03
PAC'I' MIP
3sClO,                                                                j                .                          TE SGOEL,ji    I        A       FLILDE,DC-!'00INT6
r Ibs nadbrs N r * ^eKrr t wEsb g =x klled. 7rv -                                          dEEE FBIAN                 Nrvn io ed al  t.'A
A  LrSAISD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T L
-    0030'                                                 80R0            '           1.em'S Cn



