Document of                     FLE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2840-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 4, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -       Sucre (SI)
Calendar 1979    June 1. 1980
US$1     -      S/ 25             Sf 25
S/ 1     -      US$0.04           US$0.04
FISCAL YEAR
.January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CEPE          -   Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana
(Ecuadorian State Petroleum Corporation)
DGOP          -   Direccion General de Obras Publicas
(General Directorate of Public Works)
ENFE          -   Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Estado
(National Railway Company)
MOP           -   Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones
(Ministry of Public Works and Communications)
UCCV          -   Unidad Coordinadora de Caminos Vecinales
(Feeder Roads Coordination Unit)
UPCT          -   Unidad de Planificacion y Coordinacion de Transportes
(Transport Planning and Coordination Unit)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Republic of Ecuador
Amount:            US$55.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Payable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
8.25 percent interest per annum.
Project
Description:     The project's main objective is to build or improve
about 1,500 km of secondary and feeder roads in the three
coastal provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro. The
project also contemplates (i) the strengthening of feeder
road planning nationwide and the preparation of follow-up
feeder road projects; (ii) the implementation of a 1981-84
maintenance program for the main road network and the rein-
forcement of highway maintenance in the three provinces
mentioned above; and (iii) technical assistance for trans-
port planning and for training. The project's construction
and main road network maintenance components pose no
special risks. Improving road maintenance at the level of
the three provinces gives rise to some uncertainties owing
to the presently low administrative and technical capacity
of the three provincial highway authorities. To minimize
this risk (i) the Ministry of Public Works and Communications
(MOP) and the provincial councils would sign comprehensive
Maintenance Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby
MOP would provide, inter alia, technical assistance
(supported by consultants) and supervision necessary to
carry out the maintenance works; (ii) the Bank and the
Government would annually review with each province the
adequacy and performance of the staffing provided by MOP
and the province; and (iii) experienced MOP staff (with the
help of consultants) would train provincial personnel
in maintenance activities.
IThlis document hits a restricted distribution and maty be used by recipients only in the performance|
of theif offcial duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



- li -
Estimated Costs:                                         Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
A.   Feeder Road Program (1981-84)
(i)  improvement of 1,500 km of roads          22.0      18.0       40.0
(ii)  final engineering for (i)                  1.0       1.5        2.5
(iii)  technical assistance and studies           0.9       1.4        2.3
B.   Road Maintenance Program (1981-84)
(i)  equipment and spare parts                  1.8      16.6       18.4
(ii)  construction of workshops and
warehouses                               1.0       1.0        2.0
(iii)  technical assistance                       0.2       0.7        0.9
C.   Training Program                                 0.7       1.3        2.0
D.   Technical Assistance for Transport
Planning                                      0.2       1.0        1.2
E.   Physical Contingencies                           2.4       2.1        4.5
F.   Price Contingencies                             18.8      11.4      30.2
Total                                     49.0      55.0      104.0
Financing Plan:                        Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Bank                  -       55.0       55.0
Government         49.0          -       49.0
Total          49.0       55.0      104.0
Estimated                               -      US$ Millions by Bank PY…-----
Disbursements:                        1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual              7.5    25.5       8.8      8.8     4.4
Cumulative          7.5    33.0    41.8    50.6    55.0
Rate of Return:    About 46 percent for the feeder road program -- equivalent
to about 65 percent of project costs -- to be carried out
in Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro provinces. The economic
rate of return for the nationwide maintenance program
(equivalent to about 18 percent of project costs) is
estimated at over 50 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 2917b-EC dated May 30, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$55.0 million to
help finance a sixth highway project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 2373-EC
entitled "Development Problems and Prospects of Ecuador: Special Report'" was
distributed to the Executive Directors on June 18, 1979. This President's
Report incorporates the main conclusions of the economic report. Annex I
summarizes the main social and economic indicators.
Growth
3.        During the past six years, the Ecuadorian economy has experienced
rapid economic growth spurred mainly by exports. GDP annual growth which had
been on average 10.2 percent during the 1972-76 period fell to an average 5.5
percent during the subsequent years. Several factors interacted to generate
this phenomenon. Firstly, production of petroleum has virtually stagnated
and its export volume has declined. This decline in volume not withstanding,
petroleum (crude and derivatives) still accounted for 59 percent of the value
of goods exports in 1979. Secondly, the agricultural sector, which has been
contributing more than 20 percent of GDP, has suffered from three successive
years of drought.
4.        Furthermore, economic activity in 1978 and 1979 was affected by a
tight credit policy, and by uncertainties related to the outcome of elections
and the economic policies to be carried out by the Government which took
office August 10, 1979. These factors contributed to a slowdown of private
investment which increased at an average annual rate of 0.8 percent during
the past two years. The decline in economic activity would have been worse
had it not been for a substantial improvement in the terms of trade, as both
the price of oil and of agricultural products increased in 1978 and 1979.
Social Development and Change
5.        Despite the rapid economic growth which led to the present rela-
tively high average per capita income level, much of the Ecuadorian population
continues to live in poverty. In 1975, the average annual per capita income
of the poorest 25 percent of urban dwellers represented less than one-fifth
of the country average per capita income. The corresponding figure in the
countryside was much lower. While open unemployment is only about three per-
cent of the country's labor force, marginal i.e., low productivity, low-income



- 2 -
employment is estimated to be as much as 30 percent. Highly concentrated
ownership of land and other productive resources, low rates of retention in
primary schools and poor health conditions have limited the possibility of
the poor to improve their living conditions. The high rate of population
growth -- 3 percent per annum in the last three years -- remains another
impediment to the alleviation of underemployment and poverty. The role of
Ecuador's population program is still too limited to produce a notable
decrease in the birth rate.
6.        During the past decade -- and in particular during the years follow-
ing the beginnings of oil exploitation (1972) and the increase of petroleum
export prices (1973) -- an important urban middle class has emerged. It is
composed mainly of entrepreneurs, civil servants and employees of the modern
sectors. This urban middle class has been growing both in size and in
relative income and has been the major beneficiary of recent economic growth.
7.        Despite the considerable movement of the rural population to the
cities -- the share of city dwellers in total population changed from 28.5
percent in 1950 to 43.5 percent in 1978 -- the economy and society of Ecuador
still suffer from a pronounced dualistic structure. The indigenous population
of Ecuador accounts for over one-third of total population, and it is in this
group, settled predominantly in rural areas, as well as within the marginal
urban population, that the poverty roots are deeply anchored. This population
benefits relatively much less from basic infrastructure -- education, public
utilities, roads -- than other segments of the population.
8.        The Ecuadorian administration is increasingly aware of the need to
integrate social policy with general development policy. In the rural areas,
the strategy of rapid agricultural growth is now pursued in a context of
regional development. In the urban areas, increasing attention is given to
small- and medium-scale enterprises and to production of labor-intensive
manufactured goods. These are, however, only the first steps in a long and
intricate process of increased attention to social needs.
Basic External and Internal Financial Equilibria
9.        Recovery in world prices for Ecuadorian agricultural exports (mainly
bananas, coffee and cocoa) contributed to the maintenance of the overall
buoyancy of the economy during 1978-1979. They also led to substantial gains
in income, which against the backdrop of slow growth of the domestic supply of
food, resulted in inflationary pressures. A strong and decisively implemented
monetary and credit policy, price controls and heavy imports of food staples
helped to curb these pressures. As a consequence, the annual rise in consumer
prices did not surpass an annual average of 11 percent in the period 1977-1979.
10.       During 1970-79, Ecuadorian imports increased at an average rate
of 11.7 percent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were:
(i) the high investment rates achieved during the period and the related demand
for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial and transport sectors;
(ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial sector; and (iii) lately,
the growing demand for some agricultural products.



- 3 -
11.       Real exports of goods were increasing annually by 12.6 percent
during 1970-79. Petroleum was responsible for most of this growth, since
non-oil exports remained practically constant in real terms between 1970 and
1979. Thanks to the recovery of terms of trade, the resource gap has been
negligible in the last two years. The current account balance of payments
deficit, equivalent to 2.2 percent of GDP in 1978, decreased '  1.5 percent
in 1979 despite a steep increase in factor payments.
12.       Fiscal policies in the 1977-79 period were expansionary.  The public
sector deficit peaked in 1977 at 8.7 percent and fell to 6.6 percent and 2.7
percent of the GDP during the two subsequent years. This declining trend is a
combined result of budgetary restraints imposed on public investment during
1978 and 1979 and more than a doubling of petroleum revenues during the
period 1977-79. Furthermore, to reduce the inflationary impact of fiscal
policies, authorities turned strongly to foreign borrowing and launched sales
of foreign-currency denominated bonds in the domestic capital market. Finally,
starting in mid-1977, the monetary authorities introduced restrictive monetary
policies which resulted in a declining rate of growth of money supply. Net
credit to the private sector from the consolidated banking sector followed
the same pattern of deceleration.
13.       As financing of the fiscal deficit was increasingly sought in
external financial markets, public external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 grew by 58.9 percent compared with the end of 1976. Terms, maturity and
grace periods of the newly contracted debt hardened as most of it was provided
by commercial sources. Ecuador's debt-service ratio increased from 4.5 per-
cent in 1975 to 11.7 percent in 1978. The Government made efforts during 1978
and 1979 to soften the accumulated debt by being more careful in the choice of
foreign credits used to finance part of its deficit and, at the beginning of
1979, was able to renegotiate US$510 million contracted with commercial banks--
or about one quarter of its foreign debt -- contracted on the least advanta-
geous terms, in order to improve the debt profile and lighten the future
debt-service burden. Pre-payment of these hard-term loans during 1979 raised
the debt-service ratio for that year to 39.2 percent. This ratio excluding
the one-time debt prepayment would have been only 17.9 percent. The debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 15 percent in the period 1980-84.
Sectoral Developments
14.       Agriculture accounted for 19 percent of GDP in 1979, a decline from
28 percent in 1970. This sector, which had been growing at a satisfactory
rate of 5.1 percent during the period 1970-76, started to decline from 1976
with an average annual increase of 1.7 percent, and a fall in real terms of
crop production.
15.       Ecuadorian agriculture was -- and still is -- constrained by inade-
quate infrastructure, limited farm-level technical guidance, substantial price
fluctuations, erratic credit availability, marketing shortcomings, poor man-
agement at farm level and uncertainties with regard to the future of the
land redistribution program. All these factors hampered farmers' investment
intentions and made productivity increases difficult.



- 4 -
16.       The Government intervenes in the distribution of agricultural
products by regulating the pricing and marketing of farm products. This
resulted in high-cost distribution systems, and has motivated smuggling to
neighboring countries due to low prices paid to producers on some crops.
The existing subsidy system is regressive and rather counterproductive. Wheat
import subsidies ostensibly introduced to stabilize food prices also benefit
higher income groups more than others and adversely affect incentives to
produce cereals, roots and tubers domestically.
17.       The agricultural potential of Ecuador is at present underutilized
and could be used both as an engine for medium-term growth and as a means
to alleviate social inequities. Ecuador has enough fertile land to expand
agricultural and livestock output at a reasonable cost. It also has forestry
and fisheries potential. While increases in production of crops and livestock
should mainly satisfy the domestic demand, forestry and fisheries products
could be directed to the foreign markets. In particular, the agricultural
potential of one important region of the country -- the Costa -- is very
substantial. Regional institutions have been created in order to manage
the development of this zone. The use of new lands, better access to land
through broadly distributed ownership or rental in traditional agricultural
regions, and improved techniques of cultivation could slow down the rural
exodus, relieve the pressure on urban labor markets, and help to improve the
distribution of income.
18.       The manufacturing sector of Ecuador, representing 16.8 percent of
GDP, expanded in 1970-79 by 9.7 percent annually and should help to sustain
economic growth in the next several years. Ecuadorian industry, predominantly
privately owned, has been largely geared to import-substitution in consumer
goods, and has been operating in a strongly protective environment. This has
deflected entrepreneurs' interest from transformation of the country's natural
resources. Moreover, with the relative prices of capital and labor distorted
by the system of investment incentives, favoring the price of capital, produc-
tion techniques have become increasingly capital-intensive. These investment
policies in the past have been largely responsible for discouraging the
industrial sector from involvement in activities in which it could have a
strong comparative advantage. Measures to change such policies have been
discussed with the Ecuadorian Government. Their final design and implementa-
tion, to be decided by the recently installed Government, could have an
important effect on restructuring the industrial sector, and should result in
a stronger, more efficient growth pattern. This will require, in particular,
changes in tariff, price and interest policies in order to strengthen sectors
with more favorable export prospects and to reduce the incentives for estab-
lishing inefficient industries. On the whole, however, the industrial sector
has an important role to play in the future.
19.       Petroleum production on a major scale began in Ecuador in 1972.
Increases in international prices since 1973 considerably enhanced the sector's
role in the economy: it contributed 16 percent to Ecuador's GDP, accounted
for about 50 percent of export earnings and for 37 percent of current public
revenues in 1974. Production, after reaching 76 million barrels in 1973, fell
to a level of around 65 million in 1978. However, it rebounded to 77 million



- 5 -
barrels in 1979. Net crude oil exports (excluding those needed to pay for
imports of derived products) which attained 59 million barrels in 1973, have
been declining steadily to 42 million barrels in 1978.
20.       Domestic consumption of petroleum and of its products has been
growing at .3 percent per annum in the last several years.  By 1979, one-third
of the country's petroleum output was consumed internally. Although the
growth rate of domestic consumption is expected to slow in the coming years
as a result of the lower GDP growth rate, the amount of petroleum available
for export -- in the absence of countervailing policies -- could still continue
to decline, limiting the country's import capacity. Under these circumstances,
and unless new petroleum resources are discovered and exploited, the country's
import capacity would become a serious constraint to the growth of the economy.
21.       The decline in the volume of petroleum exports may slow down if
Ecuador resumes oil exploration, which has slackened in the past few years.
Investment in rehabilitation of known oil fields will also be needed. To
accomplish improved oil exports, two main economic decisions will have to
be implemented -- first, the decision to invest substantially in oil explor-
ation -- whether with own resources or through risk-taking foreign enterprise,
and, second, the decision to increase domestic prices of petroleum. Petro-
leum prices in Ecuador are among the lowest in the world -- less than 200
per gallon of gasoline -- and this has largely stimulated the excessive
domestic consumption. The Government recently tripled prices of fuel used
in shipping and increased prices for jet fuel by about 75 percent and 60
percent for foreign and domestic carriers, respectively, but this change
covers only 8 percent of total domestic consumption. More significant raises
are expected during this calendar year. Economic decisions of this type call
for an approval by the legislative branch of the Government but frequent
stalemates occurred in the recent past in this area. An idea of a referendum
to decide on the relative roles of the legislative and executive bodies in
shaping inter alia the economic policies has been seriously discussed in
Ecuador during past months.
Outlook
22.       During most of the past decade, the overall economic management in
Ecuador could be considered moderately successful, although there were serious
weaknesses in public administration and in the use of incentives, especially
for the development of the agricultural sector. The Government has resisted
the temptation to sink oil revenues into wasteful and grandiose schemes and
has, instead, used the proceeds of petroleum exports for more modest invest-
ment projects, generally corresponding to real needs of the economy. It has
also fostered a climate conducive to increased private investment during most
of the seventies which resulted in an acceleration of the industrialization
process. In the future, the success of the Government would largely depend on
its resolve to make and implement sometimes unpopular decisions, such as that
regarding the domestic price of petroleum, that are necessary to relax the
constraints liable to limit the economic growth.
23.       Ecuador's GDP growth rate is estimated to remain at a level of
5 percent in 1980 -- in spite of favorable oil prices -- as a combined result



- 6 -
of a very low rate of growth of agriculture, stagnation in petroleum production
and lagging investment. In the medium term, the Ecuadorian economy has fair
growth prospects. The external sector may not exert in the future as strong
a growth-propelling role on the economy as in the past, mainly because oil
exports are expected to continue their decline while agricultural exports may
be constrained by price trends and prospects of the international markets.
24.       The new Government has prepared a five-year plan (1980-84) whose
main goal is to combine economic development with social justice. The Plan
foresees the creation of 490,000 new jobs, or more than the new entries to
the labor force, which, if it materializes and if the productivity and wage
increases take place as planned, would raise the share of labor in national
income from 37 percent to 40 percent. The planned investment program implies
a strong shift toward rural investment, social infrastructure (which together
will account for 42 percent of total new public investment compared with 34
percent during the past five years), petroleum and, to a lesser extent,
industry. Overall, this plan considers an ambitious increase in public
investment by 70 percent in real terms over the preceding five years, needed
to sustain a rate of GDP growth of 6.5 percent over the period. To finance
this investment, increased external borrowings would be necessary.
25.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.  To
develop it fully and efficiently, far reaching changes in its economic policies
are needed. Some were initiated by the previous Government but more remains
to be done by the new Administration. The size of the country's foreign debt
is not excessive and its recent and successful efforts to improve the debt
structure should make its debt service payments manageable. Therefore,
Ecuador remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms. Its net
external borrowing needs could increase steeply by the mid-1980's In spite
of expected policy improvements, since the medium-term prospects for non-oil
exports are not impressive and the volume of oil exports will have to fall in
the immediate future even if significant domestic petroleum price rises are
undertaken.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
26.       Bank group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. In all, the Bank and IDA have extended
24 loans and six credits to Ecuador, totalling US$365.7 million net of can-
cellations. As of April 30, 1980, US$197.4 million of this amount had been
disbursed. The IFC has made five loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large
textile company, and one each in a sugar mill, a cement company and a pulp and
paper firm. IFC has also purchased capital shares in COFIEC, a development
finance company. These operations have amounted to US$26.6 million in commit-
ments of which IFC now holds US$22.4 million.
27.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical



resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's eco-
nomic and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC operations as of April 30, 1980, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 31 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Six of the eight loans and credits extended for trans-
port were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power has aimed at improving
generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first livestock develop-
ment loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversification in the
Bank Group's lending program away from straight infrastructure. Since then,
the Bank Group has made eight loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries,
four DFC loans to support industrial development, a credit and a loan for
education, one loan each for water supply and urban development and two
technical assistance loans. Bank Group involvement in the directly productive
and social sectors now accounts for about 60 percent of total Bank Group
lending.
29.       Turning to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effectively;
and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor.
In addition to the feeder road-cum-maintenance project which this report
recommends and to the small-scale enterprise project which has recently been
circulated to the Executive Directors for consideration, the Bank is preparing
a second rural development operation, an electrical transmission project, a
loan for petroleum development and a fishing port operation. These projects
would have important institution building aspects and include sizable technical
assistance components.
30.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
has been, by far, the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans from
IDB to the country as of December 31, 1979 totalled US$567 million. Past IDB
lending has been concentrated in power, agriculture, health/sanitation and
transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the country have come from the Fund
for Special Operations and normally carry 2 percent interest, a 10 year grace
period and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is likely that IDB will
remain Ecuador's major development lender in the immediate future with power,
agriculture and socially-oriented projects accounting for an increasingly
large share of its lending program. USAID, which has lent Ecuador US$103.6
million, made no new commitments to the country between 1973 and 1979.
Recently, however, this agency has renewed its operations in the country and
proposes to concentrate its program in the rural and urban development sectors.



- 8 -
31.       As of December 31, 1978, Ecuador's outstanding public external
debt, including undisbursed, amounted to about US$2.3 billion. Bank Group
lending constituted about 12 percent of this amount and absorbed about 3.6
percent of the Government's external debt service. IDB lending was equivalent
to about 21 percent of Ecuador's debt and USAID accounted for about 5 percent.
Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral debt, by
1985 the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt could reach
17 percent and its share in debt service would climb to around 12 percent.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
32.       With a total area of about 283,600 km2, Ecuador is, after Uruguay,
Guyana and Surinam, the smallest country in South America. Located in the
northwest Pacific coast of the continent, it is bounded by Colombia to the
north, Peru to the south and east and the Pacific Ocean to the west. Its
geographical configuration has been a determining factor in the location of
its population and economic activities, as well as in the development of its
transport network. The Andes mountains running north to south divide the
country into three distinct regions: the Costa, the Sierra and the Oriente.
According to the 1974 census, the population is almost equally distributed
between the Costa (49 percent) and Sierra (48 percent) regions, with a very
minor proportion (3 percent) living in the Oriente. Ecuador is undergoing a
rapid urbanization process, but in 1974 60 percent of the population was
still rural. Of the urban population, about half lived in Quito, the capital,
and Guayaquil--the country's largest city, industrial center and most important
port.
33.       The Costa region produces the country's main export-oriented cash
crops--bananas, coffee, cocoa and sugar--as well as foodstuffs destined mainly
for the domestic markets (rice, tobacco, yucca and fruits). The Sierra is the'
granary and cattle center of Ecuador. It is also the main producer of root
crops. The Oriente is the source of most of the petroleum produced in the
country. Although the petroleum boom has brought a certain degree of migration
and development to this region, it is still largely unsettled.
34.       The transport system reflects the topographic, economic and demo-
graphic conditions of the country. The main corridor--road, rail, pipeline
and air transport--connects Quito and Guayaquil. Two north-south highway
links complement the basic system. These are the Santo Domingo-Guayaquil-Peru
coastal highway and the Pan-American highway, which connects Quito with the
other main urban centers of the Sierra and with Colombia and Peru. Two
more east-west corridors complete the main transport network: the pipeline
connecting the oil fields in the Oriente with the port of Esmeraldas and the
Guayaquil-Cuenca corridor in the south, consisting of road and air transport.
The Transport System
35.       Railways:  As has occurred in other countries, railways in Ecuador
have gradually lost their importance. Because of the difficult topography,



- 9 -
the age and deterioration of railway infrastructure and--more importantly--the
absence of massive bulk cargo and the short average distance of cargo movements
(excepting oil) in the country, the economic role of this transport mode is
limited. Competition from roads and neglect of rail infrastructure have
resulted in steadily declining traffic and a deteriorating financial position
for the railroads. The railway system is owned and operated by the Empresa
Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Estado (ENFE) and has a total length of 971 km.
The Guayaquil-Quito line (446 km), however, moves 90 percent of all traffic.
In 1978, freight traffic stood at 29 million ton-km, while passenger traffic
amounted to 54 million passenger-km, or less than 2 percent of total inter-city
freight and passenger transport. ENFE's financial deficit in 1978 totalled
about US$6.5 million or around 1.4 percent of the public sector deficit In that
year. Despite low tariffs, recent deficits have been kept at a relatively
modest level due mainly to a substantial reduction in overstaffing of the rail-
ways, from 3,050 employees in 1977 to about 2,600 in 1979.
36.       Ports handle more than 96 percent of Ecuador's external trade.
There are three general cargo ports, two petroleum terminals, one port spe-
cialized in banana handling and a fishing port. Guayaquil, which handled
about 1.8 million tons of cargo in 1978, is the main port accounting for about
80 percent of imports and 40 percent of non-petroleum exports. Esmeraldas,
on the other hand, has the major petroleum exporting terminal, handling about
7 million tons in 1978. The Bank has helped to finance the expansion of the
port of Guayaquil through two operations: Loans 212-EC of FY59 and 1255-EC of
FY76. With ongoing and already committed expansion programs, port capacity
should not be a significant problem in the future. Ports and shipping are
administered by the Port and Merchant Marine Council and the Merchant Marine
Directorate, both of which are under the Ministry of National Defense. Port
operations, however, are the responsibility of individual port authorities,
which enjoy considerable autonomy.
37.       Shipping:  The national merchant fleet consists of 12 ships owned
and operated by three state-owned companies, two of which specialize in the
transport of petroleum and banana, while the other deals in general freight.
The country began shipping activities by participating with Colombia in a
jointly owned and operated shipping company in which Ecuador has a 20 percent
share. The Ecuadorian fleet moves only ten percent of the country's interna-
tional shipping trade because petroleum is carried mainly by foreign tankers.
The transport of crude oil and petroleum products accounts for most domestic
coastal shipping.
38.       Civil aviation:  Given Ecuador's rugged terrain, civil aviation
plays an important role in the country. Although the substantial improvement
of the road network has slowed down the growth of domestic air traffic in
recent years, it reached a volume of about 840,000 passengers in 1978. Inter-
national traffic more than doubled to 480,000 passengers between 1972 and
1978. There are 17 airports and some 70 airstrips in the country; the Quito
and Guayaquil international airports are, by far, the most important of these.
Ecuador has four major airlines: the Government-owned Ecuatoriana, which
provides international services, and three domestic carriers. Two are
privately owned (SAN and SAETA) and the third one (TAME) is owned and operated
by the Ecuadorian Air Force. Aviation in Ecuador is under the control of the
Ministry of National Defense, through the National Council and Directorate of
Civil Aviation.



- 10 -
39.       Pipelines:  The Ecuadorian State Petroleum Corporation (CEPE) owns
and operates pipelines in the country. There are two pipelines: one for
crude oil, which extends from the oil fields in the Oriente to the port of
Balao in Esmeraldas (503 km) and a 358 km-long pipeline for refined products,
which runs from Duran (close to Guayaquil) to Quito. The first pipeline moves
about 10 million tons of crude oil per year, while the Duran-Quito facility
transports about 180,000 tons annually of refined products. With financial
assistance from the IDB, CEPE is building a new 260-km refined products
pipeline from Esmeraldas (where the country's main refinery is located) to
Quito. Under the same IDB loan, a liquified petroleum gas pipeline is to be
built from the Shushufindi fields in the Oriente to Quito (324 km).
40.       The highways subsector is reviewed in Section IV of this report.
Institutional Framework
41.       Responsibility for transport planning and policy and for construct-
ing, maintaining and operating transport services and facilities is shared by
six ministries and by various national, regional and local authorities. The
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOP) is responsible for construct-
ing and maintaining the main road network and, through ENFE, for operating and
maintaining the national railways. Regulating the road transport industry
falls under the aegis of the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of National
Defense, on the other hand, controls the construction, maintenance and oper-
ation of the country's public ports and airports and regulates shipping and
civil aviation. The Ministry of Natural and Energy Resources and CEPE are
responsible for pipelines. Feeder roads are the responsibility of MOP, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and a number of other national, regional
and local agencies and authorities. Finally, the National Planning Council
reviews and approves all investment proposals in the sector, while pricing
policies for each mode are set by each responsible ministry.
42.       The fragmentation mentioned above has made sectoral planning and
coordination difficult to achieve and has hampered, in some cases, the provi-
sion of adequate intermodal connections such as access roads to ports and
airports. The role of each mode is, however, clearly defined and the present
division of responsibilities has not resulted in major investment misalloca-
tions or inefficiencies. Under the fourth highway project (Loan 1231-EC
approved in FY76) a Transport Planning and Coordination Unit (UPCT) was
created within the MOP and technical assistance was provided to help it
carry out sectoral coordination and planning. The new unit has assumed
responsibility in matters pertaining to land transport. Although it has
obtained information regarding other modes, however, it has not yet fully
expanded its planning role to these modes.
43.       Currently the UPCT is completing the drafting of a 1980-84 invest-
ment plan for the highways subsector. The Government, meanwhile, has pub-
lished a 1980-84 national development plan based, inter alia, on information
and findings supplied by the UPCT. The national plan envisages reinforcing
transport planning by calling for the establishment of a National Transport
Commission, which would coordinate policies for land, air and water transport.



- 11 -
The Government would, by June 30, 1981, create the National Transport Commis-
sion and, prior to its establishment, would exchange views with the Bank on
its organization and functions (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The UPCT would be responsible for providing the land transport input to the
Commission's work, while the Ministry of Defense would remain responsible for
air and water transport. Additionally, the Borrower, through UPCT, would
complete a detailed development plan for its highways subsector by September
30, 1980 and would take this plan's recommendations into consideration in
carrying out the transport aspects of the 1980-84 national development plan
(Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Strategy
44.       Since the fifties, Ecuadorian Governments have substantially improved
the country's transport system, especially the highways network. Between 1966
and 1970, for example, almost one-half of total public investment was devoted
to this sector. Increasing amounts were spent in transport during the seventies,
although the sector's share of total Government outlays has gradually decreased
to about 15 percent as petroleum revenues have grown.
45.       The 1980-84 development plan allocates 15 percent of public invest-
ment to the transport sector. In the plan, priority is given to improving and
extending the trunk road network and to substantially improving the badly
deteriorated secondary and feeder road systems. The plan also calls for the
construction or improvement of airport facilities at Cuenca (Ecuador's third largest
city) and at a number of isolated towns in the Oriente. The fishing ports of
Manta and Posorja would also be expanded. Finally, the plan contemplates the
initiation of new international airports in Quito and Guayaquil and the study
and initiation of an expansion and electrification of the railroads. These
projects represent sizeable investments and may not all be economically and
financially advisable, particularly as regards railway expenditures. Accord-
ingly, the UPCT would undertake an economic assessment of any proposal for
railway investments in excess of US$10 million, and it would provide the Bank
an opportunity to comment on each proposal (Section 4.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
46.       The main distortion facing Ecuador's transport sector is the ex-
tremely low domestic price for petroleum derivatives. The present level
(about 20V per gallon), which has remained practically unchanged for almost
two decades, represents a sizeable financial subsidy to gasoline users. The
Government, which inherited the low price structure when it came to power in
August 1979, is aware of the importance of raising domestic prices. In this
regard, on January 1, 1980, the Government tripled fuel prices for shipping
and increased prices for jet fuel by about 75 percent and 60 percent for
foreign and domestic carriers, respectively. It is also considering major
increases in gasoline prices to levels which would approximately cover the
financial cost of producing, transporting and retailing it, thus eliminating
the financial subsidy currently received by gasoline consumers. The Bank has
conveyed to the Government its view that energy prices should gradually be
raised to international levels and this point constitutes one of the main
aspects of the Bank's policy dialogue with Ecuador.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
The Highway Network
47.       Ecuador's national highway network totals approximately 33,800 km,
of which about 13 percent is paved, 38 percent is improved to gravel standards
and the remaining 49 percent consists of earth roads. The MOP is directly
responsible for administering and maintaining about 8,400 km of trunk roads,
while responsibility for the remaining 25,400 km of roads is divided among
local governments and national and regional agencies, with the occasional
assistance of MOP. To date, investment and maintenance planning have been
hampered by insufficient data regarding the highway network. To correct this
deficiency, MOP would: (i) by December 31, 1980, conduct an inventory of the
country's main road network and draw up a set of procedures, satisfactory to
the Bank, for monitoring traffic on public roads under MOP's jurisdiction;
(ii) by December 31, 1981, complete an Inventory of the secondary and feeder
road networks, conduct a traffic count at the national level and furnish its
results to the Bank; and (iii) by June 30, 1982, reclassify Ecuador's road
network into primary, secondary and tertiary roads based on the results of the
road inventories and traffic survey mentioned above and in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Road Traffic
48.       Ecuador's total vehicle fleet doubled to about 170,000 vehicles
between 1972 and 1978. Although traffic data are incomplete, overall traffic
growth is estimated to have accelerated from a 1965-73 average of about
10 percent per annum to about 20 percent annually during the 1974-79 period.
MOP data also suggest that traffic levels on main highways stood at 3,000 to
6,000 vehicles per day in 1977, while average traffic on paved and gravel
roads reached 1,500 and 350 vehicles per day, respectively, in 1976. Regula-
tions concerning the trucking industry are complex in Ecuador. Since they are
loosely enforced, the trucking industry--consisting largely of vehicles which
are owned and operated by single individuals--is highly competitive.  The law
governing weights and dimensions of vehicles on Ecuadorian roads is adequate
and available evidence suggests that overloading of trucks is not a major
problem. A closer monitoring of truck overloading is, nevertheless, required.
Accordingly, in addition to causing MOP to enforce vehicle weight controls,
the proposed loan contains a covenant whereby MOP would periodically monitor
the enforcement of existing weight control limits (Section 4.10(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Road passenger transport has been expanding, mainly at the railroads'
expense. The road passenger transport industry is more regulated than truck-
ing, and inter-city and rural bus services are generally adequate, as are
urban passenger services in the main cities.
Highway Administration and Financing
50.       Administratively, the MOP is divided into a General Directorate of
Public Works (DGOP) and three Directorates of Administration, Finance and



- 13 -
Transport Planning. The DGOP is in charge of designing, constructing and
maintaining highways and Government buildings. MOP staff totals about 4,200,
of which DGOP personnel constitute some 85 percent. As a whole, staffing
levels in MOP are adequate and are being improved still further with technical
assistance and on-the-job training provided under the Bank-financed fourth
highway project (Loan 1231-EC of 1976).
51.       Most engineering work is contracted out by MOP to consultants.
Although the local consulting industry has developed rapidly and the partici-
pation of foreign firms has almost completely disappeared, it still requires
foreign support to handle specialized assignments. Most major construction is
done by local firms. Under the fourth and fifth highway projects, for example,
all civil works contracts were awarded to local firms after international
competitive bidding.
52.       Modern highway planning began under the third highway project (Loan
379-EC and Credit 51-EC of 1964), with the preparation of a highway master
plan. The plan, which was completed in 1974, has provided a framework for
several major construction projects in the country. The creation of the UPCT
under the fourth highway project initiated the development of a capacity to
conduct planning on a continuing basis. Training was also provided under the
fourth highway project, including courses offered to MOP staff, private pro-
fessionals and graduate students, as well as on-the-job training to MOP's
personnel. The proposed project aims, inter alia, at consolidating and ex-
panding IOP's training programs and at extending these to three provincial
highway authorities.
53.       Financing for MOP's trunk road expenditures comes mainly from:
(i) the national budget; (ii) the Ecuadorian Development Bank, which channels
oil revenues to priority investment projects; and (iii) external loans,
including resources from the IDB and the Bank. Financing for secondary and
feeder roads comes mainly from the budgets of Central Government agencies
(e.g., MOP), or from provincial and municipal councils. Actual expenditures
for rural improvements increased by 12 percent in real terms overall between
1976 and 1979, reaching a total of about US$135 million in the latter year.
A further increase of 15 percent annually in current terms--which would entail
a small increase in real terms--has been estimated for the 1981-84 period.
54.       Revenues from road user taxes have exceeded the cost of road main-
tenance and administration in recent years and have covered, on average, 56
percent of road construction costs. The structure of taxes is unusual in that
users pay heavy fixed taxes (mainly import duties) not related to their level
of road use, while very little taxation is levied on the consumption of trans-
port services (e.g., through fuel taxes). Available evidence also suggests
that positive road user taxes are levied on cars and pickups, while trucks
and buses are subsidized. To get a better handle on this issue, however,
UPCT would carry out, not later than June 30, 1981, a study--whose terms of
reference would be satisfactory to the Bank--of the road user charges and
taxes currently in effect in Ecuador. UPCT would also exchange views with the
Bank on the results of the study, and on any proposed action to be taken in
order to change, systematize or amend such charges and taxes (Section 4.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
Maintenance
55.       MOP is responsible for maintenance of about 8,400 km of trunk roads.
Most secondary and feeder roads receive only occasional maintenance carried
out by local authorities or other Government agencies. The budgetary alloca-
tions of MOP's Maintenance Directorate almost doubled between 1976 and 1979
and the level and quality of maintenance work executed by MOP has substantially
improved over the last five years. A maintenance management system developed
by consultants financed under the fourth highway project has been implemented
in a pilot division and is being introduced in the six other administrative
divisions into which MOP has divided the country. MOP has a road maintenance
equipment fleet of about 900 units. The fleet's average age of about five
years is low, owing to the purchase in 1978 of 340 units financed by a bilateral
loan. Despite this low average age, availability of equipment is estimated at
only 60 percent because of an inadequate supply of spare parts and shortcomings
in equipment repair. Utilization of available equipment is further limited
to about 50 percent, mainly because of Ecuador's extended rainy season and
inadequacies in MOP's field organization. Efficiency of road maintenance is
also curtailed by a shortage of trained engineers, supervisors and foremen.
The proposed project would help strengthen Ecuador's road maintenance
capability (paras. 72 and 73).
56.       Provincial councils, the highest authorities in each province, are
responsible for constructing and maintaining most feeder roads within their
jurisdictions. Provincial capacity in road administration, however, varies
widely from a relatively high level in Pichincha and Guayas (where Quito and
Guayaquil are located) to almost none in the least developed provinces.
Past Bank Group Lending
57.       Since 1954, the Bank and IDA have lent Ecuador US$114.5 million for
transport, US$68 million of which has been for highways. The first two loans
helped finance the construction and paving of about 1,100 kms of roads in
Guayas province and linking the Sierra with the Costa (Loans 94-EC and 176-EC
for US$8.5 million and $14.5 million, respectively). In 1964, USAID and IDB
joined the Bank Group (Loan 379-EC for US$9 million and Credit 51-EC for US$8
million) in financing a third road project which included the construction of
730 km of roads, a five-year highway maintenance program and a highway master
plan. The Operations Evaluation Department's Performance Audit Report No.
1572 dated April 27, 1977 concluded that, despite delays and cost overruns,
this project was well justified. Its construction and highway planning com-
ponents were successful and the new roads built resulted--in all cases--in
economic returns in excess of those estimated at time of appraisal. Improve-
ment of highway maintenance under the project was, however, adversely affected
by lack of managerial continuity and shortage of maintenance funds.
58.       The ongoing fourth and fifth highway projects emerged from the
1974 highway master plan. The two loans (1231-EC for US$10.5 million in
FY76 and 1429-EC for US$17.5 million in FY77) jointly assisted in financing:
(a) construction of 169 km of roads; (b) an agricultural development study;
(c) four comprehensive technical assistance programs; and (d) a study of



- 15 -
feeder roads development in the provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro.
Notes on the status of execution of these two projects are contained in
Annex II.
PART V - THE PROJECT
59.       The proposed project evolved from the feeder roads study mentioned
in the preceeding paragraph and was identified by a Bank mission in November
1978. It was prepared by MOP with the assistance of consultants and Bank
staff. A Bank mission appraised the project in November/December 1979. Its
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Sixth Highway Project" (No. 2917b-EC,
dated May 30, 1980) is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations of the loan were held in
Washington between May 21 and 22, 1980 and the Ecuadorian delegation was headed
by Mr. Gustavo Castro, MOP's Director General of Public Works. Representatives
of the Finance Ministry and the Attorney General's office also attended.
Project Objectives and Description
60.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) improve the
feeder network in the three coastal provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro;
(b) support the development of the feeder road system nationwide and related
planning capability in MOP; (c) strengthen Ecuador's road maintenance capability
for main and feeder roads; (d) consolidate the achievements of the fourth
highway project in the areas of transport planning and coordination; and
(e) strengthen MOP and the road capability of the three coastal provinces
mentioned above through training programs.
61.       Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) design and construction or improvement of about 1,500 km of feeder
and secondary roads in the provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El
Oro;
(b) acquisition of equipment to be used by the three provinces
mentioned in (a) for maintenance of all 6,000 km of feeder and
secondary roads in these provinces;
(c) strengthening the planning, construction and maintenance of feeder
roads at the national level through the establishment of a Feeder
Roads Coordination Unit (UCCV) in MOP, for which technical support
would be provided;
(d) preparation of feasibility studies to help develop follow-up
feeder road projects as part of a countrywide program;
(e) implementation of a 1981-84, four-year maintenance program for
the main road network and coordinated measures to build up
MOP's maintenance capacity;



- 16 -
(f)  continuation of technical assistance for transport planning; and
(g) training programs for personnel at MOP and in the three provinces.
The project would be implemented over a four year period (1981-84). MOP --
with the assistance of consultants -- would be responsible for overall project
execution. However, the provincial councils of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro
would gradually assume responsibility for executing their respective feeder
road and maintenance programs. To ensure smooth project execution, the
Borrower would cause MOP and the participating provincial councils to provide
experienced and qualified staff to manage and execute the project.  Moreover,
during the course of project execution, the Borrower would exchange views with
the Bank, by September 30 of each year, regarding the adequacy of (i) the
personnel employed by MOP and the provincial councils to carry out the project;
and (ii) the coordination arrangements between MOP and the provincial councils
(Section 3.02(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Provincial Feeder Roads:  The design and construction or improvement
of 1,500 km of feeder roads in the three coastal provinces of Guayas, Los Rios
and El Oro would be the project's single largest component, accounting for about
65 percent of project costs.
63.       The three pilot provinces selected span the range of highway manage-
ment capabilities.  Guayas has a competent road department with 12 engineers
and a large, though aged, equipment fleet. The province carries out most road
engineering and construction by contract, but handles minor road improvements
and maintenance by force account. Los Rios is typical of provinces with
some road management capability. The provincial administration has one
professional road engineer, a rudimentary equipment fleet and performs no
regular road maintenance. Finally, El Oro province has virtually no road
management capability. It does not employ any road engineer or technician, it
lacks road maintenance equipment and MOP's regional engineer also acts as the
province's road engineer, supervising what little rural road work is done by
the province.
64.       The three provinces are amongst the most important, agriculturally,
in the country. In 1978, their joint production represented about 57 percent
of the nation's agricultural output accounting for 80 percent of total banana
production, 71 percent of cocoa and 30 percent of the coffee produced in the
country. These are Ecuador's main export crops, constituting over 90 percent
of agricultural exports in 1978. Furthermore, in 1978 the three provinces
accounted for 94 percent of the country's rice production, 91 percent of
soybeans, 76 percent of tobacco, 71 percent of cotton and sizeable proportions
of the country's fruits, sugarcane and yucca output. They also contain about
half of the country's irrigated area and are important producers of beef
cattle and hogs.
65.       Despite these figures, the three provinces could produce still more
were it not, inter alia, for their inadequate transport infrastructure, which
is a serious bottleneck to production and marketing. The project recommended
in this report would help provide the transport network the provinces require.



- 17 -
66.       Based on existing traffic counts, about 1,000 km of feeder roads
would be constructed or improved to a minimum all-weather gravel standard.
The remaining 500 km, some of which already have over 300 vehicles per day
of traffic, would be upgraded to higher standards including, in some cases,
paving. The secondary and feeder road program has been divided into four
annual tranches. The roads included in the first year tranche were agreed
at negotiations. Preliminary agreements have also been reached concerning the
scope of subsequent tranches. Detailed engineering of the roads included in
the first year tranche is underway and would be completed by September 30,
1980. Retroactive financing of up to US$600,000 would be made available under
the loan for this purpose. To confirm each annual tranche, MOP, acting in
coordination with the provincial councils would, not later than September 30
of each year, starting in 1980 (i) update and furnish to the Bank for approval
a tentative list of the roads to be designed in the forthcoming year (Section
3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement); and (ii) complete and furnish to the Bank
for approval the final engineering and updating of the economic evaluation
studies for each of the roads to be improved during the following year (Section
3.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Engineering and construction for the
first-year tranche would be contracted and supervised entirely by MOP.
67.       One of the main objectives of the proposed project would be to
assist in the gradual buildup of the three provinces' capacity to plan, con-
struct and improve rural roads. To this effect, MOP would enter into a
Participation Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the partici-
pating provinces. The agreement would cover all aspects of planning, organi-
zation, engineering, staffing, construction and supervision of the feeder
road programs in the three provinces, including the gradual transfer of re-
sponsibility for the program's execution to the provincial councils (Section
3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The signing of Participation Agreements
with at least two of the three project provinces would be a condition for
effectiveness of the loan, while disbursements on civil works carried out in
each of the three provinces would be contingent upon the signing of the
corresponding Participation Agreement with that province (Section 6.01(a)
and Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       Feeder Roads Maintenance for the Three Provinces:  The proposed
project would also assist the three pilot provinces in developing their
feeder roads maintenance capabilities, which are at present virtually non-
existent. More specifically, MOP and the three provincial councils would
agree upon a feeder roads maintenance program, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the 1981-84 period. MOP would also purchase about US$8.6 million (equiva-
lent to 12 percent of base project costs) in equipment and spare parts for
feeder roads maintenance. While MOP would retain ownership of this equipment
and be responsible for its upkeep, it would make the equipment available to
the provinces which would, in turn, be responsible for its operation. MOP
would assign its field staff, assisted by approximately 34 man-months in
consultants, to advise the provincial maintenance units on maintenance oper-
ations and to supervise their maintenance programs. Consultants to be provided
in connection with this and other project components would all have qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Bank and would be contracted under
terms and conditions of employment which would also be acceptable to the Bank



- 18 -
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The arrangements for carrying out
this component would be incorporated in Maintenance Agreements, acceptable to
the Bank, to be entered into by MOP and each of the project provinces. These
agreements would also specify the annual work program as well as funding and
staff commitments to be made by MOP and the provincial councils (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement). The signature of each of these Agreements would
be a condition for disbursement on equipment to be assigned to that province
(Paragraph 4(e) of Schedule 1 to the Draft Loan Agreement).
69.       Nationwide Feeder Roads:  Approximately three percent of project
funds would be earmarked (i) to strengthen Ecuador's capacity to plan,
construct and maintain feeder roads nationally; and (ii) to finance preinvest-
ment studies for follow-up feeder road projects throughout the country. The
planning and coordination of feeder road programs at the national level would
be done by a Feeder Road Coordination Unit (UCCV) to be established by MOP
within the Directorate General of Public Works. UCCV would formulate overall
policy guidelines for feeder roads nationwide, coordinate the planning and
execution of feeder road projects in the three pilot provinces on MOP's
behalf and prepare new projects.
70.       The establishment by the Government of the UCCV within MOP with an
organizational structure, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the
Bank and the appointment of a head for UCCV, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition for effectiveness of the loan
(Sections 3.08(a) and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The full staffing
of UCCV in a manner satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of disburse-
ment for the second, third and fourth annual tranches of the feeder road
programs in the pilot provinces (Section 3.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement
and paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). UCCV's progress
would be closely followed. By no later than June 30, 1982, the borrower and
the Bank would review UCCV's staffing and activities as well as its coordina-
tion arrangements with other agencies concerned with feeder roads (Section
3.08(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
71.       In order to assist UCCV in its start-up, the project would provide
for 138 man-months of technical assistance, mainly for engineers and economists.
To prepare follow-up feeder roads projects, UCCV would receive an additional
170 man-months of consultants' services. The average cost of this component's
consultants (and of all others provided under the project) is estimated at about
US$8,300 per man-month.
72.       Main Road Maintenance Component:  As was noted in para. 55 of this
report, MOP's capacity to maintain Ecuador's main road network, while improv-
ing, still faces a number of weaknesses. Accordingly, the project's second
largest component (equivalent to about 18 percent of costs) would aim at
strengthening MOP's road maintenance capability. Funds available under this
component would help cover the costs of acquiring complementary equipment as
well as spare parts for MOP's existing maintenance fleet and for preventive
maintenance. MOP warehouses and workshops in poor conditions would also be
improved. Finally, the component would finance 60 man-months of consultants'



- 19 -
services to MOP's Maintenance Directorate. The employment of these mainte-
nance consultants would be a condition of disbursement for the component's
maintenance equipment (para. 4(d) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
This technical assistance would complement that offered under the Bank-financed
fourth highway project.
73.       MOP is considering a maintenance program for the 1981-84 period
that would require annual expenditures on the main road network to increase
in constant terms from US$40 million equivalent in 1981 to US$46 million
equivalent in 1984. This represents a 3.6 percent real increase in annual
outlays during this period. The 1981-84 program's scope and composition was
reviewed and confirmed at negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that
the Borrower would annually budget sufficient funds to enable MIOP to carry out
this program and that the Borrower would inform the Bank of the budget alloca-
tions within 30 days of the budget's approval (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
74.       Training and Transport Planning:  The training and transport plan-
ning components would absorb about five percent of project costs. Under the
training component, MOP would carry out a four year (1981-84) program which
would aim at improving the productivity of some 1,500 road staff in MOP and in
the three pilot provinces. Funds would finance the construction and operation
of a training center near Quito, the purchase of training material and the
continuation and strengthening of ongoing training activities begun under the
Bank-financed fourth highway project. This component would also include short
training courses abroad.
75.       To carry out the project's training activities, the MOP unit cur-
rently responsible for training would be upgraded to departmental status by
December 31, 1980. Its functions, responsibilities and organization would
be acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.12(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
new training department would receive 104 man-months of technical assistance
consisting of expatriate and local training specialists, instructors and
lecturers. The project's training center would be constructed and enter into
operation by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.12(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
76.       Under the project, MOP's Transport Planning and Coordination Unit
(UPCT) would receive about 130 man-months of technical assistance to strengthen
its capabilities. With the help of consultants, UPCT would, inter alia, com-
pile a road inventory and conduct studies concerned with the structure of the
road passenger industry and ways to improve its efficiency. UPCT would also
improve its data base on traffic, vehicle registration, axle loading, road
safety and national import policy for vehicles. Finally, UPCT would conduct
ad hoc studies to assist Ecuadorian urban areas in facing such issues as
fixing appropriate public passenger fares and improving traffic control.
Project Costs and Financing
77.       The project's cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated to be
US$104 million. The proposed loan of US$55 million would cover its foreign



- 20 -
exchange component, equivalent to about 53 percent of project costs. The
Government would finance the local cost component. A breakdown of project
costs and financing appears in the Loan and Project Summary of this report.
Procurement and Disbursements
78.       All equipment contracts over US$50,000 would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. The
base cost of equipment thus procured is expected to total about US$17.6 mil-
lion. MOP would purchase equipment in contracts below US$50,000 and within
an overall ceiling of US$500,000 in accordance with its own local competi-
tive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. The acquisition
of spare parts, in contracts of less than US$50,000 and aggregating no more
than US$500,000, would be through negotiated purchases from established and
reliable suppliers.
79.       Civil works included in the project would be let in accordance with
MOP's local competitive bidding procedures except that embassies of Bank
member countries and Switzerland would be notified of civil works bidding
45 days prior to publication of the call for bids. MOP's local competitive
bidding procedures are satisfactory to the Bank. Although these procedures
allow for the participation of foreign firms, it is unlikely that foreign
firms would be interested in the project's civil works given the scattered
and relatively simple nature of the works contemplated, the relatively devel-
oped stage of the local construction industry and the previous lack of in-
terest of foreign contractors in highway construction in Ecuador.
80.       Disbursements of the loan is expected to take about four and a half
years running from early 1981 through mid 1985 and would be made against:
(i) 45 percent of total expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and 90 percent of expen-
ditures for locally procured imported equipment; (iii) 70 percent of total
expenditures for the design by consultants of the feeder roads program in the
three pilot provinces; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures (equivalent
to 70 percent of total costs) for all other consultants' services provided by
foreign firms and individuals and 70 percent of the costs of these services
if provided by local firms; and (v) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
scholarships abroad.
Projlect Benefits
81.       The proposed provincial feeder roads component, which accounts for
about 65 percent of project costs, aims at facilitating travel in rural areas
of the three coastal provinces of Los Rios, Guayas and El Oro. Rural roads
in this area are now generally deficient and are impassable from three to six
months a year during the rainy season. By improving or constructing some
1,500 km of all-weather feeder roads, a large proportion of the more than
90,000 farm families (about 540,000 persons) living in the three provinces
would have a better and more reliable way of marketing their agricultural out-
put and enhanced access to health and educational services. Their living con-
ditions would, consequently, be improved. The feeder roads program would also



- 21 -
result in substantial savings in vehicle operating costs for buses, trucks
and automobiles using the network for commercial and private business trips.
82.       The weighted economic return of the 1,500 km of feeder roads to be
improved, constructed or maintained has been conservatively estimated at 45.5
percent. If, for sensitivity purposes, construction costs were increased by
20 percent or benefits reduced by 20 percent, the component's rate of return
would still be around 36 percent. If it were assumed that the expected road
maintenance was not forthcoming, the component's weighted economic return
would drop to about 34 percent.
83.       An economic evaluation was also done for the proposed nationwide
road maintenance program, the project's second largest component accounting
for 18 percent of costs. The only direct benefits quantified were vehicle
operating cost savings accruing as a result of improved road conditions.
Other benefits such as passenger time savings, improved safety and reduced
damage to goods in transit were not quantified. Nevertheless, even using
this conservative approach, the road maintenance component proved well justi-
fied with an economic return in excess of 50 percent.
Project Risks
84.       There are no unusual risks associated with this project's civil
works. The feeder roads program in the three provinces--by far the largest
component--should not pose any special problems because of Ecuador's rela-
tively developed construction industry and the major role in construction
supervision to be played by MOP, an agency of proven capacity. Given the
extensive technical assistance built into the transport planning, training
and national feeder roads and maintenance components, these too should be
implemented normally. There is a risk, however, that the three pilot pro-
vinces may have difficulty in carrying out the feeder road maintenance com-
ponent of the project and in developing an in-house ability to maintain their
feeder roads, one of the institution building goals pursued under this project.
To minimize this risk, the project calls for the signing of comprehensive
Maintenance Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, by the provincial councils
and MOP, which would cover, inter alia, (i) the staffing and organizational
requirements for carrying out maintenance works in each of the provinces;
(ii) the technical assistance to be provided by MOP, with the support of
consultants; and (iii) the arrangements by MOP to supervise the province's
maintenance works. As an additional safeguard, the Bank and MOP would closely
monitor this aspect of project execution and conduct an annual review of the
adequacy and performance of the staff of MOP and the provincial councils
(para 61). Finally, the provinces would provide professional and technical
staff to be trained in maintenance activities during the course of project
implementation by experienced MOP personnel.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section



- 22 -
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
86.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
effectiveness would be (i) the signing by MOP and two provincial councils of
Participation Agreements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 67); and (ii) the
establishment by the Borrower of the UCCV within MOP with an organizational
structure, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank and the
appointment of its head with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 70). Conditions of disbursements include (i) the signing of
a Participation Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, by MOP and each provincial
council for the civil works to be carried out in that province (para. 67);
(ii) the signing of a Maintenance Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, by MOP
and each provincial council for the maintenance equipment to be assigned to
that province (para. 68); (iii) the full and satisfactory staffing of UCCV for
the second, third and fourth tranches of the feeder roads program in the pilot
provinces (para. 70); and (iv) the employment of maintenance consultants for
the maintenance equipment to be purchased under the project (para. 72).
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 4, 1980o
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-  23  -                                             Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
!CUAO01 -50CIAL InDICATOLS DATA SUET
ECUADOR                  BEREFRCEN  CROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay RAGES
LAND AREA (TAUSRD                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIAT7E) -
Mt0AL           28 3 .6                                               SANI       SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGICULTMtRAL     73.0                               MOST RECENfT    GEGRAP3IC    ILCOMZ      INcomz
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      RGION fc  GROUP Id   GROUP /I
GNP PEX CAPITA (US5)                   ..      370.0    910.0           1124.4    1097.7      !'k2.6
ENERGY CONSU?rrION PER CAP ITA
(111LOGRAnS or COAL EQUIVALWNT)    201.0     297.0    455.0            943.1     730.7      1646.7
POPULA SM  ITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID.-EAR (MILLIOS)     4.4         6.0       7.3
tRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4      39.5      41.9            59.3      49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJCTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    14.0
STATIONARIY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     26.0
YZEA  STATIONARY P?OULATION I5 REACD                2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PtE SQ. EK.                      16.0       21.0      26.0            23.5      44.6        28.2
PER SQ. DI. AGRICULTURAL LAND    91.0      100.0    100.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUE (PERCENT)
0-14 TIS.                        45.4       46.6      46.1           40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                       52.0        50.8      51.2           54.6       55.3        56.3
65 YnS. AND ADOVE                  2.6        2.6       2.7             3.9       3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWIU RAT (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.9        3.0       3.0             2.4       2.4         1.7
URBAN                             S.0,       4.4       4.1            3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH LATE (PER TLOUSAND)    47.0       43.0      41.0            32.8      31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    17.0       13.0      10.0            8.5        9.2         9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..        3.3       3.1             2.4       2.2         1.6
FAMILY PLAINNG
ACCEPTORS ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         9.0      32.3
USESR (PERCENT Of MaRIED WOMEN)   ..           .       6.3            17.7      34.7
FOOD AND NUTRIION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.8      101.0      98.0           99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  81.0       91.0      93.0           107.0     105.0       120.8
PRTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         46.0        49.0      47.4           60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      24.0       22.0      21.9            28.3      23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIT7 RATE    23.0       16.0      10.0            6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YES)   51.0         56.0      59.6           63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         140.0      118.0        ..           76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-       34.0      40.0           63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                                       76.0      82.0           79.5       75.7        85.1
RURAL                              *-        7.0      13.0           38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENTr
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       22.4      35.8           58.8       46.0        70.1
UR8AN                              ..         ..        ..           77.8       46.0        66.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..           24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2600.0      2870.0   1570.0          1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER SVRSING PERSON   2280.0      1605.0        ..          933.7    1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           520.0/f    430.0        ..          563.4      453.4       197.6
IR3AN                              ..      190.0        ..          279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              ..     4740.0        ..          1140.9    2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HIOSPITAL RED        ..        17.0        ..           25.7       22.1        17.3
SOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF 3OUSEEOLD
TOTAL                             5.1/f      5.2       5.3            5.0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..            4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                                                                 5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TO.AL                             2.5/f       ..        ..            1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                             2.1/f       ..        ..            1.3        1.6         1.2
8URAL                            2.5/f        ..        ..             1.5       2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELEC-RtCITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
DT AL                            32./f        ..      41.2           54.3       50.3        66.0
gRRBAN                            8           ..       3             80. 1      71.7        35.1
RURAL                            6.177        ..      11.61.2                    7.



ANNEX I
- I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                  REFRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A]1RACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
IOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ZSTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP /I
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRI.MARY:    TOTAL                83.0        97.0     102.0           107.3       102.5       101.7
MALE                 87.0        99.0     104.0           109.1       108.6       110.0
FEKALE               79.0        95.0     101.0           107.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDARYT   TOTAL                12.0        26.0      42.0            40.5        33.5        51.2
MALZ                 13.0        28.0      43.0            40.4        38.4        56.4
FmLZ                 10.0        24.0      40.0            39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL INROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  29.0        29.0      23.0            18.5        11.5        1843
PUPIL-TZACER RATIO
PRaMARY                           39.0        38.0      38.0            37.1        35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         11.0        15.0      17.0            17.9        22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PZRCENT)       67.5/f      68.0      73.9             77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSE0CER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         5.0       6.4            29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        41.0       279.0        ..           172.1       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUtATION                         0.5        25.0      37.0            67.9        38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEALL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        41.0      49.0            76.1        40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         4.0       5.6             4.2         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1400.0      1700.0    2172.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  16.2        19.1      20.1            21.5       25.0         24.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.4        50.9      47.0            30.2        43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.4        22.2      24.0            23.8       21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.5        31.7      31.6            30.9        33.5        33.8
MALE                                54.3        51.0      50.2            47.3        48.0        51.3
FEMALE                              10.5        12.2      12.8            13.3        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.7       1.6             1.5         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP ROUSEROLDS     ..          ..        ..            23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..            58.7        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             2.9         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             9.9        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (05S PER CAPITA)
VRBAN                               ..          ..    269.0            265.6      270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    183.0            185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    307.0            396.3      282.5        550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      77.0           308.1      248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR3AN                               ..          ..      40.0            35.2       20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0            46.6       35.3
.Not available
.Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populaction-eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otKerwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; tor 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent iatimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America 4 Caribbean;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, t976);   /e  Upper
Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capica, 1976);  If  1962;  /g  1950-62.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
*Ingust, 1979



-  25  -                                                     ANNEX I
rIwmsCI OF atta snzcan                                                     Page 3 of 6
Ifi~1A1touahthe  ata   dre ama fr  om oams  generally Judged the mout anthsrttatiu and reliable, it s 1A ltsi, e ntets that they S   net he Interns-
beonme of thu luck of sotedartleed defatiniime end cancupts, used byr different cocutries in colectiug the data. Th. data era, noeutheleas,
useful to describe order of sWitcde, Indicate beau", us nharctcrmae certWan majoi' differenes betwuan eonstriee.
The adJuste d   p..gradefs for suck indicator are popsslatlon-uuiglted guaswtric man, exiuding theo extrameeulues, of the indicator end the mast popalatud
countyin"EiifjiiiijT De to luck of date, grop aver"age  of all indIcators fwr Capital. Surplu  0l daptortrs and of Indicators of Accuse to Wait" end boerne
Disposal, IHousing, ncas Dtistributi  oned 5enrty fer other coentry grotp  are pepLuatioa-wuightud geastric soes without eslusica of the extreme values ad
the aost populated coutry.  Siclhbcrs,eofcuite    e    h  idoa.tors da                    od n  v eiiyo   aaen  natuiomoeinms be smerciu.d
to relatin   vrceo   sidctrt   ote.Teeaeue e'            .            ra ealus ls ecrmitiona ofscetdMvlI  she  ccin  the. reiet                               fn
Indicator at a tine sogg t   country ud ref rnce. Iroups.
trABU  (tbousand uqa.)                                                                 nest   ortaDsoa..ren   fnnsai)                       -toa.  rbs  saId it1 -
~f*Total-TtI surfas ara comprising land sura, end Island eatur.                          Numberofppl  (ttl          Uhn   n  rural   uvdb           rt   iPoea  uso
ISEL,uLturs.l -  Most  coat estimate of agricultural are  used teaporaril.y             pwro.ctugsu of their respective popooltio. Eserete disposal map include
or permuamtly for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gerdens, or to                  the collection and dispoual, with or vithot treatment, of buase escreta
lie, tallos.                                                                          usd cate-cater by eater-borne systems or the use of pit privies and saleul
Installations.
GNP  ER APIA   S$)- SOrP pe  o.pit. estimnate  at curret marne  prioese,           Puatocr   eiin              Population divided by outber of pructicing physiobsns
calculated. by sam  ocvreai  metod us World Sunk Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  fl?r?ra-U.I shool at univ-rsity icoe.
iq6o. 1970, and 1977 data.                                      -                     P.wito  pe  Prin   ern  - population divided by mitber of protoicg mete
P    * donnel ronu,moptia of commrols.   aft                    sod feal  raute fare, prastical nurses,= mudasistant waress.
A?cou  ad Ialic,jhtirlesa,nature]. gas end 9dro-, nucluar and gon              Puaio   e  Hoptal Du-tta.uba.ed rosta] - ftp.l.tion (total, urban,
thermal electricit)inx kilopesso of coal, sqialemmt Per capita;                         en1ua)diie96tei  epcie  oe   fhoptlbd  aalbei
197o, end 1976 data,                                                                    puLblic sod privots general end epeclallzd hostpitel end rebhiidtation caters.
arei.l  u  establishuents prmomnntl.y staffed by at least one phyician.
POnUnATIO  ADO  VrItA STATISTICS                                                          ZetebUImehnts providing principally custodial cars etc cot Included. Rusral
Toa    01.ltIn   ldiTe    allllos) - Ac of july I; 196o, 197o, us             hoeptale * however, iscluade health end medical canters not permanently staf fed
1977 ""t..                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a phroicisn. hat by a medical, assistant, curs, -idwif-, sto.) chico offor
Itcesb ola ioslrln  of itotl) - Ratio of urban to total population;                     in-patiant accommodation us proide a liSited rungs of medical facilities.
diffsrn  dfntionsof  rba  ara  o    ffect comparability of data                     AU Lsim    u  o9tl e      oa   udro edissions to or disohargefo
eamg cuoutries; 1960, 1970, ad 1973 data.                                             hopias  i iddb  ths:6c_kr of beds.
ftiution  =ye       2000  - furret population projections urs bass on             US
197¶5ttailpopulatiion by age end Sec sod their mortality end fertility            Aaslc  of Household (persons per househl)-talore enrul-
rate.  Projection paraetwrs for mortality rates ocmprice of tbeeAhushl   onit   f    ru  of individualsAc sbsUirg qurtrsan
level  -sciag life copseteny at birth incrasig with couteys                         their -sin meal..  A b.-rda  or lodge"W r may oronnt bn included it the
per caPita incom  level, end female lire capectscy stbilisiog at                    household for statistical prpaose.
77. epre.  The paremwturs for fertility rate also have three levels            Arerase nmber of perospr om-toa.ubnadcaal-vegeoar
esulf   eline in fertilIty e,coordlog to Income level end peso                of p-rsos per roe  in alleuba, and rrlocpe  csetiooal dyeliog.,
fatli oanlo  performounos. cub country is then ussigned one Of these                respectively,  Deellings coIlde non-pueemant otructures and unoccupied perts.
clue  ooatinations of nertality, eod fertility troods for projectios              Accmes to&Electriit  (proat of dwellIng -totl, urban, en  rra    Ccc-
Poypoee..                                                                           ratitonadwlig  wih  lstridp  clv                  quarter  us Percectage of
Stationar   pultion - In a stationery population then Is no grovth                    total, urban, end rural. duollinge respectively.
storeti  birt  rati  equal to the death rats, sand .alo  thu uge
structure reania  cntt.This is achieved Only after fertility rates             EPEATION
decline to the replaceecot level of unit net reproduction rate, shen             Ad  sted Enrollment Ratios
-oo  g-nration of can roplne  itself e-atiy.  Th. otatlonry pops                    ?rs7       f1.,totZ, ale and fosels  G-tre  total, sale end fends enrol-
lotion nic  cue cot,tetd on the basis of the projected ch-ratcriotLc-                 setofalgca  the, piary levl n  p,eretagee of respectIve pr:mary
Of the Vpoputiuc in the year 2000, ond the rate Of decline Of fertility                cinu-1-ge populations; moraLLIY includes  hiliren. aed 6-11 y-sr tot
rate to replacemnet level.                                                            adjusted for different lecgtho of primary education; for  ootrvcith
Peas ottcur   cutti     on't   is reahed - The Year then stationary Population          universal education enrolment ayt ...ceed 100 portent since con  pupilo
sine. asa bee  reachd.                                                                ore brine or siev  the official orhool use
PouaIo    eoty                                                                  Secondary scool -ttal,  alee            -I.sel  - Computed as above; ceconey
Pers .h.-I Mi-year population per square kiloaet-r (100 ih.-ars) of                      eduoxtic  requi   a.t leat o yer   fapoe   etsyioroin
total area                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~proidee gencral  -otlonal, or teechr training itst-utions for pupulo
.Per noqS.  a             Iiutrl led - Coaep-td as above for agricultural lent          usuall  of 12 to 17 yeasr  of aog; correspondene -oorss ar  geesrally
Only.                                                                                 exclded.
Lorlauu    ge Struture(percent) .- Children (0-lu yours), corking-age                    oainla.iet(etn   fscoey  9Vocational iostltutic.. include
15-ho yars), ed retird (usyars end over) ac peretuges of hid-yea              cucolal industrial, or other prgr  chich operate indepe.dentlyoru
population; 1960, 1970, end 1977 data.                                                  departeonts, of secondary inetitutou.-
Poula,tion Grovi Sate ipsront) -tota  - dowel croub rates of total sid-                  PupL-ecr ratio-pie7 o   eodr                  y-Total studeate enrolld in
yerppulatioco' for 195-5  190-0,ad 1970-7l.prmyenseodrlvlsiiedbnnesoftahsisheor-
Population Grott o Ste 'P-ret) - urban - Annua orcoh rates of -b-                         spondLg lav-l..
popuilatiOns for 1950Ani, 1960-70, snd 1970-75.                                       Adult liter-    rate (cer-nt  - li-terat  adlt  able to even sad -rite) a
erode Birth Rate 'mer thousad) - Annual. live bindsa p-e thouand of cad-                  aper.ctage of totalaut Populattion aged 15 Years and over.
year poPolotioc; 196d, 1970, end 1977 dana.
Crude each Sate per th-uand) - Annual deatbs per thousand of aid-pear               C0NuapTS(M
,popolatioc; 1960, 1-970, and 1977 data.                                             Pass.ose Cars (er thousand poo tin  -  aseger car  oupr-o sutor o-ar
.ros Reprod otlSae -irerge comber of daughters a comea sIll tersaigless thnegt pcutne  ecusaulces, he-rse  and .tit-rY
in her  .rirproutive period if she coperie..ee presen.t age-                          -eiuiles.
sPecific fertility rates;  -sualy fIve-year avrages ending in150,pil Pcires0vtosn  Scoulatto) .All typss of receivrs Pfor radio
1970, and 1975.                                                                       broadcasts to genra  puilO per thousand of population; occludestulIensed
Esnuly Plcing . Aoertors.Annual )thouoands( - dnnual nosir of                   receivers in coutries and in yearn  hic. rc oa Ioof radinesaco
acctr .o_it-ostrol do'l... _ndsr anspioss of national  family                effect; data for recen t yeure cay not he -cearblo ci-c  -otcotre
plonsig 5rcgra.                                                                       abolished licnsing.
PFaily plannihgo J. lo   'Percent of married cones) - Percctage of caried             TV Re-evrs   e  hosn tcotlaics) - TV re-ivero for broadcast to general.
-oe  of Obild-b-aIr,g age (17ohyeu  cOo usbirth-O-nurol  evcspublic per thusndpopton  excludes unlicensed TV receiver  to -ootrtes
to all meyrted one  in cane age group.                                                and in peers cha registratIon of TV sets su  in effect.
HsaprCroltloc (per ,thousn RIyulation).Id  iboc  the average circulation
Inden    coo 733T7duoticprCpt  197 0)-Index Of per op~ita                               deoted primaily to recording geosral news.  ht isrouedired to 1e1"Sally
"nua  prdcino   l  oo   oniis   rduction excludes seed sod                          if it nppxprs at least fou  nine  a. cok
feed and  -sn   alnder yea  basis.  Conditiss ocrer primary goOs                   cieaAna.Atnac   e  Captane  Yea  - hed un the cuter of ticketo
e.g.ngerane, instead of sager) shiob are edible o.      oti   uret                 oddrn  the psr  nldn    diaco   odoei   ieatd nohile
e..cffee sond tea ar  eclded).  Aggregate prodaction of each cOnr                unIts..
Is bused on nattIonal avrage producer pricet weights.'
Per cacto supply of clres,crcet of r-oiremacts) - Computed fhou                   LABOR POPC!
onse  equivaet of net f- cocppilis a-iIablo Ic country per capita                 TotalI labor Forc   thousanda, - Soooi-aly active pcrsons, L-cuding armd
pedy.  iveilable supplies coMprise domestic production, impor-te icas             forces end onlptyd 'out exclding houeeoive, snudats,  tet. Defi.ituon
exper.ts, 'n h bsgec un1 scot~:. let spplIe.s ecindu  nimal feed, ceeda,            in vaious countries are not oCuprarsi..
quatitie  usd in foodpocsing, cod inus  inL disteibotion. Osquire-                yenaAp(pprcent) - reaLs laker forc  as perocnage of total labor force.
acts  -e  estImated by FA  bused on pbysticIgioal -eed  for tcrne,                                     ) - Leho- force is if rmiog, fores.try, baiting and
actIvity nod health c...sidertng eniroaental temprature, body weighits *            ftIiigijdi.'tae.  of total. labor force.
age sod  -e  dintriboti-n  of population, and s1owing IS pervent for             jpduhjtryph   - abor force oneig   osrci n,  anfacturing sod
c'aste at b            -oehllvl                                                      eletrIit,   catr and gasta  peractage  f total labor force.
Pe,apita    ploni of qenteIn  mese n- day) - Protein cotent Of per                Pstcoto   as(een)-totl ae  se                        eai  - Partte'Pipai    or
capit  net  upplyof fod perday.  et suply of food Ie definsd an          "ciiyrte   r   opue   stta,sl,ad female labor force us Pe-
above. Requiroants for all  wetries established bly USIA provde for a               cetages of total, mae. and femle population of all ages respectively;
Islomo  s11-no  of 60 cron, of Itota  prorsio per d, and 20 grm   of               1960, 1970, sod 1975 into.  The.c ar  11,0, partoiiptin rates reflecting
oneLI end pulse protein, of ebiob 10 grusso should is enisi protein.                age-sc ecruoture of the population, sod long time trend.  A few estimates
These standards are l-osr than thcce of 75 greant of total protein an               are fro  nonati   eurje.
23 cram  of snimal 5otsn us an avrage for ins  -Iod, proposed by TAO              MP    JbVtT            &i  -  Ratio Of PoPu-lato  'nder 1.5 ad 65 end oer t,o
in the Thrd World ood Survy,.h   ao  frt. In age group Of 15.64 years.
ercptPrtin coi  frc,"sniaml and onse . Proslo supply of  ood
deaedfomelml and puise.. In gress per day                                           Fia.Icm    bt    ..t                                       sa~db   ihs
Cid uss I-u) durtalty Rate 'or thousand) - dAn.ie  deaths per tb-sued             I5renM    g D of  rvtM     naMoh  ncs    tkn,-  esvnb  ihe
onag  group 1-h year1s1,no children  In tibi  age grop; for nest deve-              5  a       frt ricest 20 percet, poorest 20 pret  end poorest i0 peroct
aping cOutrisa data derived from life tables.                                         Of housaehol,de.
raining  ambilrth;190  190,sd 1977. data.                                              Absolute poverty IncmaslvlIthtncseelbowhi amnml
Infan   orclit Ste  pocr thousand) - Ans.ua  deaths of infanta udcr onoutrit-ioaly adenats diet pluscsatm  to-.ood -eq~oirasts oncc
yaofaeprthouand lire births,                                                  afordable.
Access to Oafs 'dater tec_t ofnolu )-total urben  sad ru,ral .                        Estimated Re1ntiePortIna  Lvel (US$ our capita) - urban, ad rural
aber ofpsople   otal, uban, so  rcu(oth reasoable aces  t                      tta  rolati    oeryina    lord . in a-third of aveage  -e  aputa
safe cater supply  includes treated surface caters or untreated but                   personal os0as Of the ~Octry. Jrban level is dsrlv-d fr  the rura  leve
onotmtaedeor -.h as that from protected horb.ole, springs,                    eith adjIustment Per higher cost Of living in urban areas.
and sesitey s-Il) as percetages of their r-peetlee oppslati-u L.                   =slatopnuato  Sub  insolltbst   oet lcsivl ec )-  ra   n
a urba  area. a public fountais or stadpout loaeed Oct  -r  than 200a       ecn  o   ouaioubn  n   ua)ooar    heuspo
eaters, from a house may be cousidered as beipg vIthin reneonable acceus
of that bosses.  In rural ars" resnbeacced  soald tmply that the
houce-ifs or Sadors  of tha hoseol   boa have to spend a diageopor-                                                         Hecasmic us Social Data Division
tionate pert of the day in fetching tb  saly's  aster ajude.                                                          toi  Aalysis sod Prolstice  Separs



-26 -
Annex I
Page Fo  6
ECUAD0R - ZCOMNIC INDICATOR
Population     :   7,600  (aid-1978, thouands)
at For Capita: uS$ 91O    (1978)
Amount                                  Annuial grouth rate (2) At constant prices
(million S_$        -
Indicator                       at current prices)                       Actual                                          Projected
1979
1974    1975    1916    1977    1978(e)            1979    1990    1981    1982    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUtNTS
Gross domestic product (a)                 74e2           7.1      5.6    It.1      6.1     5.3              5.0      5.0     *.0      6.0      6.0
Agriculture                              1531           6.1     6.4      4.1      1.1     1.1              3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5      3.5
Industry                                 2622           4.3     3.2      9.4     5.1      9.5              9.5      9.5     9.5      9.5     9.5
Services                                 3329           8.4     7.1      6.9      9.4     4.2            -13.1      1.6     4.1      3.9     3.7
Consumption                                5593          17.4      6.6     5.2    11.7      3.3             13.0      4.3     7.4      6.7     6.6
Cross investment                           1970          33.5    14.2    -0.2       9.5    -3.3            -10.7      6.1     6.0    11.3    11.0
Exports of GNFS                            1764           1.S    -6.8    10.2    -9.2    13.5                7.7      3.7     3.6      3.9     2.8
Imports of GNFS                            1844          68.0     4.3    -2.8    10.6    -3.0               15.0      2.6     8.1    10.7      9.5
Groes nAtIoa l savings                     1716          26.3      2.2     4.1    15.4      0.3
PRICES
CDP deflator                                100          63.2    69.2    77.7    90.9   100.0
xchange, rats         -                      25          25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
Share of cDP at Market Prices (s)                          Average Annusl Increase (t)
(at current prices) (b)                                  (at contsnt pricas)
- 1960   1970   1975   1980   1985                   1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1990-5
Cross domestic product (a)                    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                       5.8      11.1        5.6        6.0
Agriculture                                  33.3   27.6   22.8   19.9   17.6                       4.0       5.4        2.4        3.5
Industry                                     19.3   23.0   34.8   38.1   44.8                      7.3       20.7        8.5        9.5
Services                                     47.4   49.4   42.4   35.7   31.9                      6.6        5.0        1.1        3.7
Connumption                                    04.6   82.0   75.2   79.9   92.4                       5.0       9.S        7.8        6.6
Cross investmnt                                 14.0   22.5   28.4   22.6   24.9                     19.7      12.2       -0.6        9.5
Exports CNFS                                   17.2   14.9   26.0   23.9   20.7                       2.7      15.8        4.8        2.9
mports CNIS                                    15.7   19.4   29.7   26.4   28.0                      10.9      12.6        4.9        7.3
Cross national savings                         12.9   16.2   23.3       -      -                       -         -
As X of CDt
1960     1970      1975
MiLIC FINANCE (f)
oArrent revenues                                                         11.4
Currant expsnditures                                                      6.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-).8
Capital expenditure                                                       2.5
Foreign financing
1965-70   1970-75   1975-90   1990-85
OTm  INDICATORS
CUP growth rate (S)                                      5.8        9.3       5.2        6.2
ClP per capita grouth rats (2)                           2.5        6.3       2.2        3.2
Iergy consumpticoe  roth rats (2)                         -          -       11.7        1.8
ICOB                                                     2.8       2.6        4.8        4.0
Iatrgnal savings rats                                   -0.6        0.3       0.1        neIl- (g)
Imort elasticity                                         2.9        1.1       0.8        1.2
(a) At market pries; ctoponenta are &ZPesasd at factor cost and WILL gt add due to exolsa  of _c indirect Cases aM  subsisa.
(b) Projected years at costant pries.
(e4) Eatrte.
(I) Central govsraet only.
(a) Because of the declining contribution of petroleum to savings. from a very hih level,
the marginal savings rate Vould be negative in thee. years.
_ ._ , _    I. .            w,,v*  -sMoNM          '_ -w                        - _- W W          aI



-27-                                 Annex I
Page 5 of 6
300615- IUAL Tn
?opelatioo        7.600   (mid-197, thOus_ds)
COP Per Capita  UNS 910    (1978)
esl Crowth a    (S)
(at emastent 19  pios")
as_t
Indicator                      (aillea 03$ at                        Actal                                       Projectd    /
cntret price)
1978            1974    1975     1976     1977   1978 2/    1979       1"90     191      1m82     1983
gmAL TIM
Iarchandise  xpert                       1532           -1.2   -13.7      14.0   -10.4      13.3        5.4      3.5      3.3      3.6      2.4
Primry                                 1532           -1.2   -13.7      14.0   -10.4      13.3        3.9      2.6      2.3      2.6      0.9
mifscturzs                               -              -        -        -                 -          -       6.5      6.7      6.8      7.0
archbai"i  imports                       1512           36.1      3.5      5.5    47.1       4.6        9.1      7.5      7.4    10.2       9.5
Food                                     28            U2.9    125.7  -54.4   220W.6    77.3          9.9      5.5      9.5      8.7      8.7
Petrolem                                 11          131.9     -.0   42-.5       17.7    14.2       -10.9    177.6    41.9    *0.9    14.0
?lchinAry and equiput                   767           4.1       42.7    4.6    73.5        9.2       10.0      6.0      5.9    11.X    11.e
Others                                  706           27.2      34.6    35.8    26.7       2.1        6.4      7.1      7.7      7.6      7.4
"iCES
Export price index                        100          100.2    86.5    98.6    88.3    100.0         135.9   j81.4   189.9   202.1   205.2
Import pries index                        100           60.1    61.6    65.0    95.6   100.0           98.2    113.0    133.2   151.3   164.8
term  of trae index                      10           166.7   140.4   131.7    92.4   180.0          13.4    153.7   142.6   133.4   126
Composition of herchandise Trade (I)                        Awerage Annual Increase (S)
(at current pric")                                  (at constant 1978 prices)
1965    1970    1975   1980   1985                1965-70    197D-75    1975-80    1905
Imports                                 100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0                    4.9       33.2        4.2        2.5
Primry                                100.0   100.0   100.0   76.6   71.1                    4.9       33.2       -4.2        1.0
Manufactures                             -       -       -     23.4   28.9                    -          -          b/        7.0
lmports                                 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                      8.3       14.9       14.2        7.7
Food                                    2.3     1.3     1.8    1.8    1.9                    0.2       22.7       39.0        6.5
Petroleum                               8.2     6.2     1.5    1.5    0.3                   18.4      -15.8      -16.4      -27.2
Machinery and equipment                28.3   29.9   46.0   50.3   51.2                      9.9       22.2       20.4        8.4
Others                                 bl.2    62.6   50.7   46.4   46.5                     5.0       13.5       12.7        7.6
a/  Projected years:  1970-100.
b/  Processed food exports vere reclassiried  as manufactures in 1980;
there.ore 1975-1980 grovth rate vould not accurately reflect changes in
export volume of these goods.
e/ Estimate.



- 28                                             Annex I
Page 6 of 6
&CUIOL   -   UAl8A   0  PAUTI, Er=I3AI CAU1TL AM D32
(ELUL*   U89$ at Cagrget p!Leg)
Populations  7,600  (aid-1978, thossi)
GNP per Capita: U135910    (1978)
Actal            ,                                       je@Ied
lndicator                                   1970   1974   I; 5   1976   1977   1978(e)             1979   110   11   1982   1983  I5
LALAISCOIP0 PAYIPS
xpotar  of goode and *er,oc_                     259   1333   1127   1432   1628   1769               2496   3374   3ff5       1     4209   4171
Of whieb: Herebanjdi. f.o.b.                   235   1225   1013   1307   1401   1532               2194   3031   3279   3614   3738   3664
Imports of goods and services                    369   1327   1379   1469   2006   1976               2601   298    3512   4257   49n    5432
Of which: Mebhan4dise f.o.b.                   250    875   1006   1OU    1361   1315               1626   2101   2545   3135   37"    3949
Not trawftre                                      17      31     32      31      36     44               40     40      40      40      40     40
Current account balance                         -113     36   -220       -6   -341   .163               45    426    193   -176   -728  -1221
Private direct Lnveetne t                         89      77     9      -20      34     40               50     60      60      60      60     60
MLT loans (not                                    26     -7    133    161    513    267                 352    -63    -18    -29    562   1315
Offictal                                         8      17     49      70     51      77              80    103    161   1i5    214    195
Private                                         18    -24      84      91    441    190              472   -167   -179   -224    347   1120
Other capital                                      9       2    -72      39    -04   -107             -66       20      20      20      20     20
Change in reseras                                -10   -110      64   -174   -121      -37             -71   -43   -255.   125          87  -174
Isternational reservs                            179    428    364    538    650    687                 758   1201   1456   1331   1244   1358
of which Gold                                          16      16      16     17      17
Aaervs as oooth erts                               4       4      3       4       '      4                3      5       5       4       3      3
8lRiAL CAPTL AIMD ODT
Groot Disburso_nte
Official grants                                  -      _       _       _      _
cosasiona loans                                 12     17      40     45      31      21
DAC                                            9     12      15      25     12       9
OPEC                                          -       _       _       _      _       _
mA                                             2      *       7      3       5       1
Other                                          1      2      18      17     14      11
Non-concessional loans                          30     54    125    173    554    482
Official exports credits                       I      1       7      18     23      49
tJRD                                          2       5      10      *       8      22
Other multilateral                             0      6       4      18     10       8
Private                                       26     41    104    133    514    403
External Debt (a)
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                                    213    327    457    619   1146   1563
Official                                    151    207    253    324    384    474
Private                                       62    120    204    295    762   1089
Dndiaburtsd debt                               139    272    322    "9    623    67
Debt service
Total service paymnts                           24     94      50      82    117    204
Interest                                      7      17      17     25      45      96
Pys ants as 1 exports                         9.1    7.1    4.5    5.7    7.2   11.7
Average interest rate on now loans (Z)           6.2    5.8    7.4    7.9    7.9    8.2
Official                                       3.0    4.8    6.6    7.7    7.0    4.4
Privcte                                        7.6   11.5    8.2    8.0    8.1    9.3
Average metprLty of ne  loans (yars)            19.7   25.3   10.8   11.2   10.2   12.1
Official                                      37.9   28.1   15.9   19.3   18.7   27.9
Private                                       12.0    9.2    6.4    7.3    7.8    7.2
As Z of Debt Outatanding
at Cnd of Most Recent
Year (1978)
Maturity *tructure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 yers                                             60.7
Principal due within 10 years                                          106.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                           7.6
(a) This table includes non-guaranteed private 4dbt atarting in 1979.
(e' Estimate.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS* (as of April 30, 1980)
-----US$ million-----…--
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                              Amount
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose             Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
10 loans and 4 credits fully disbursed                      85.5       28.0
124     1968 (IDA)  Ecuador            Education              -       5.2          .5
555     1969         Ecuador           Fisheries            4.3          -         .5
425     1974 (IDA)  Ecuador            Irrigation             -        5.5        1.1
1030     1974         Empresa           Water Supply        23.2          -        7.2
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157     1975         Ecuador           Education            4.0          -       3.8
1229     1976         Ecuador           Seeds                3.0          -       2.3
1230     1976         Ecuador           Technical            4.0          -       3.6
Assistance
1231     1976         Ecuador           Highways            10.5          -        4.1
1255     1976         Guayaquil         Ports               33.5          -      16.0
Port Authority
1359     1977         Ecuador           DFC                 26.0          -       3.2
1429     1977         Ecuador           Highways            17.5          -      12.0
1459     1977         Ecuador           Agriculture         15.5          -      14.2
S006      1978        Ecuador           Technical           11.0          -       10.8
Assistance
1644     1978         Ecuador           Rural Development 18.0            -      18.0
1731     1979         Ecuador           DFC                 40.0          -      40.0
1776     1980         Ecuador           Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0          -       31.0
Total                                        327.0       38.7      168.3
of which has been repaid                    64.8        0.7
Total now outstanding                        262.2        38.0
Amount sold                           4.1
of which has been repaid            2.1      2.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               260.2       38.0
Total undisbursed                             166.7        1.6     168.3
*Includes exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1980)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                        Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.               Textiles    3.7        0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIEC)                       DFC            -       0.4       0.4
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0             -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978          La Cemento Nacional CEM              Cement      12.0       1.0      13.0
1980          Adamas Andina S.A.                   Pulp and
Paper      3.3       1.0       4.3
Total gross commitments                         24.0       2.6      26.6
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                         3.8       0.4      4.2
Total commitments now held by IFC               20.2       2.2      22.4
Total undisbursed                               10.7       1.2      11.9



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 124-EC - Education Project: US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The project has faced difficulties from the start and is now
about seven years behind schedule. Many of the 28 schools involved still
require some work, consisting primarily in the completion of laboratories
and workshops and in the installation or completion of electricity, water
and sewerage connections. The present Government has indicated its willing-
ness to complete the project and an inventory of the work remaining to be done
has been prepared. The construction/rectification process is progressing
satisfactorily with the Government's support and should be completed by end
1980.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project: US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production in an area
covering about 7,000 ha. More than 80 percent of the Credit for irrigation
and road infrastructure, equipment and vehicles has been disbursed. However,
there is need to plan and implement on-farm development, including provision
of production-supporting services such as applied research, agricultural
extension and credit. Land titling should be completed by mid-1980. A
proposal for reprogramming of project activities by the Ecuadorian Water
Resources Institute--in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture and the
National Research Institute and assisted by outside consultants--was presented
to the Association in early 1980, and is directed at supporting on-farm
development. The proposal, however, does not fully resolve issues related
to completion of the irrigation system, on-farm development and credit.
The balance of the Credit may, therefore, be cancelled.
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about three years behind schedule. Recently, project
execution has improved and construction is now underway on 90 percent of the
project components. Because of the delays, however, the project faces severe
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
cost over-runs and a serious problem of counterpart funds. More specifically,
the Guayaquil Water Company requires about US$40 million through 1982 from the
Government or from increased water tariffs to complete the project. In March
1980, the new Government provided a US$17 million loan to the Water Company.
An extension of the closing date will be necessary to permit completion of
civil works.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project: US$4.0 million Loan of September 3.
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is 2-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule
due to frequent managerial changes, serious financial problems and technical
difficulties with the design and space standards of the Quito and Guayaquil
training centers. A Vocational Training Law was enacted in October 1978
which is helping to resolve many of the financial and management problems
and the present Government has shown strong support. Bidding for equipment
purchase and construction of the training centers is expected to take place
shortly. The closing date was extended by two years to permit the project's
conclusion.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project execution and loan disbursement have proceeded more slowly
than anticipated, but recent Government actions have reactivated the project.
The implementing institutions (National Seeds Council, Improved Seeds Company,
Department of Seed Certification and the Project Unit) have been established
and staffed.  The Improved Seeds Company, however, is not yet operating at
full capacity and thus is unable to cover its expenses or amortize its portion
of the loan.  Procurement for works and equipment of the seed plants is
underway, and the National Development Bank has indicated it will provide
interim financial support to the Seeds Company. An extension of the closing
date by 18 months will be necessary to permit completion of construction.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance ProJect; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24.
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural devel-
opment project in Tungurahua Province and will support final studies for
another in Esmeraldas Province. Recent amendments proposed would permit
Ecuador's military mapping institute to undertake the aerial studies of the
Guayas Basin, on the basis of which topographic and prefeasibility studies can
be done for the region. This study would absorb over half of the loan resources.
Road and land use studies for a site in Esmeraldas Province are in contracting
stages.   Selection of experts to work with the Rural Development Planning
Unit is expected to take place by late 1980. These recent Government moves
should help to accelerate this long-delayed project. The closing date would
have to be extended to permit completion of the extensive topographical work
in the Guayas Basin.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
After an initial delay of twelve months in the contracting process,
all civil works and technical assistance elements under the project are in
execution and advancing satisfactorily, although civil works are about six
months behind contract schedule. The technical assistance programs are
already showing their positive effects on highway planning, engineering and
maintenance. The project closing date has been extended to permit completion
of the preparation studies for a rural development project in the Puerto
Ila-Chone area, as well as civil works.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Although design and price disputes initially hindered the project's
execution, works are now progressing satisfactorily and project problems
are minor. Dredging and reclamation have been completed, piling and decking
of the wharfs have advanced to about 30 percent, and buildings and other
structures on land are 20 percent complete. By April 30, 1980, 48 percent
of the loan amount (or US$16.0 million) had been disbursed. Civil works are
expected to be completed by end 1980 and the entire project by June 1982. An
extension of the closing date will be necessary.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This project is one of the Bank's success stories in Ecuador.
Project commitments have proceeded faster than anticipated and now stand
at US$23 million. Since new financieras that were expected to receive the
remaining US$3 million under this loan were unable to meet the criteria
required for participation, at the Government's request the project was
modified to permit these financieras to have access to Bank funds through
CFN, Ecuador's largest finance company.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978: Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about
60 percent of total project costs, is proceeding on schedule. Design changes
on this road have generated, however, an increase in costs. Construction of
the Puerto Ila-Doblones road is a year behind schedule and the lateral feeder
roads to this road have not yet begun, which entail a delay of at least two
years. The study of regional secondary and feeder roads in three provinces
has been completed satisfactorily, and has served as the basis for the proposed
Sixth Highway Project.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addition, there are applied research and technical assistance components
as well. The National Development Bank (BNF), the largest lender in the
agriculture sector, delayed participation in the project to allow time to
train staff but recently began to make commitments. Thirteen banks and
financieras now have signed participation agreements. Arrangements have been
made with the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and CREA, a regional
development agency, to coordinate the provision of extension services with
development credit to small farmers. Disbursements are accelerating.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan
of November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978;
Closing Date: January 31. 1982.
This project has moved ahead at a disappointingly slow pace and
two years after effectiveness, only about US$200,000 has been disbursed.
Contracts have been signed for three of ten selected studies and work is
progressing on drafting satisfactory terms of reference and on bidding and
contracting for most of the others. The project list has undergone revision
and a final list is being prepared with the present Government. A change
of status of the experts to be hired under the project is being negotiated
with UNDP, so that experts' services would be financed with loan resources.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28. 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This integrated rural development project is just getting underway.
A Project Unit has been established and experts have been recruited.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Finance Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date:  July 15. 1980; Closing
Date: June 30. 1983.
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is expected
to disburse quickly as participating DFCs have a backlog of industrial sub-
projects under review.
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan
of May 9. 1980; Effective Date: August 12. 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
This project was approved December 11, 1979 and was recently
signed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:   Approximately 1-1/2 years
(b) Project prepared by: MOP with assistance of Bank staff and local
and international consultants
(e) First presentation to the Bank: November 1978
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 19, 1979
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 22, 1980
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: January 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) By June 30, 1981, the Borrower to establish a National Transport
Commission and to exchange views with the Bank on its organization
and functions. Additionally, the Borrower (through UPCT) to
complete a development plan for its highway subsector by
September 30, 1980 and to take this plan's recommendations into
account in carrying out the transport aspects of the 1980-84
national development plan (para. 43);
(b) By December 31, 1980, the Borrower to complete a detailed
inventory of the public roads under MOP's jurisdiction and
to establish procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for
monitoring traffic on these roads. By December 31, 1981,
the Borrower to complete an inventory of other public roads
and a countrywide traffic survey and furnish its results
to the Bank. Based on these inventories and the survey, the
Borrower to classify Ecuador's road network into primary,
secondary and tertiary roads, according to criteria satis-
factory to the Bank, by June 30, 1982 (para. 47);
(c) MOP to enforce existing size and weight controls for vehicles
and to monitor, from time to time, the enforcement of existing
weight controls (para. 48);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(d) Acting through UPCT, the Borrower would, by June 30, 1981,
carry out a study, whose terms of reference would be satis-
factory to the Bank, of the road user charges and taxes
currently in effect in Ecuador. The Borrower would exchange
views with the Bank on the study's recommendations and on
any action to modify such charges and taxes (para. 54). UPCT
would do an economic assessment of any railway investment
proposal in excess of US$10 million and would afford the Bank
an opportunity to comment on any such proposal (para. 45);
(e) Borrower to cause MOP and the three provincial councils to
provide adequate staff to manage and execute the project.
During project implementation, the Borrower and the Bank to
exchange views by September 30 of each year regarding the
adequacy of (i) the personnel employed by MOP and the
provincial councils to carry out the project; and (ii) the
coordination arrangements between MOP and the provincial
councils (para. 61);
(f) Not later than September 30 of each year, starting in 1980,
MOP to furnish to the Bank for approval an updated list of
roads to be designed in the forthcoming year, as well as the
final engineering and economic evaluation studies for each
of the roads to be improved during the following year
(para. 66);
(g) MOP and each provincial council to enter into a Participation
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank. The signing of Participation
Agreements by MOP and at least two provincial councils would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The signing of the
Participation Agreement between MOP and each provincial
council would be a condition of disbursement for civil works
to be carried out in that province (para. 67);
(h) MOP and each provincial council to enter into a Maintenance
Agreement acceptable to the Bank. The signature of each
Maintenance Agreement to be a condition of disbursement
for equipment to be assigned under the project to each
province (para. 68);
(i) The Government to establish UCCV within MOP in a manner and
form satisfactory to the Bank. The establishment of ITCCV
and the appointment of its head, acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The full and



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
satisfactory staffing of UCCV would be a condition of
disbursement for the second, third and fourth annual
tranches of the feeder roads program. By June 30, 1982,
the Borrower and the Bank to review UCCV's staffing and
activities as well as its coordination arrangements with
other feeder roads agencies (para. 70);
(j) The employment of the maintenance consultants to be a
condition of disbursement for the maintenance equipment
to be purchased under the project (para. 72);
(k) The Borrower to budget annually sufficient funds to enable
MOP to carry out the project and to inform the Bank of the
budget allocations within 30 days of the budget's approval
(para.73); and
(1) MOP's training unit to be upgraded to Departmental status
by December 31, 1980 and its functions, responsibilities and
organization to be acceptable to the Bank. The training
center to be completed and to enter into operations by
December 31, 1981 (para. 75).






IBRD-14906
lX                                                                                                                C Sb Aoonc                --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIGI.DLCC~"  '  
PPZO                                                                                                                                                   MAY1900~~~~~~-0
.......              11BLA                                                                                                                      f~~NTO                                                                                      ALbY~10
IALFSTINA                                                                                                                  MAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA5AM
D    APR                                                                                                          VI CETRDL                                                                 AAALAA
C-                                                                                                                                                                                       BON 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCA  D
c  c7 n                                                N~~~~~~100C4C.  T                                                                                                       R              CA            CO  CL)MCRMAAI.AU
IA                                                                                                                '~~~~~~~~~~~~5  AS                         A
RO                                                                                                        QUE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...- MRADOuo
A OIIEBRADA                                                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BDT    AAL
H..q.db ~  ~     ~    /         ACHLP EDR BA  OONC S                                            /                 Do                                                                                                                                       DAALAROMAt ,NP L(RAD5
LLA MARA N                                                                                                                                                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*5A'AIC 
JONO.  P00 0*000k  >*-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---                                           SO.As                          A~ ~ ~ ~~~~~CHANI
CAAS-iPJOD-                                                      …             -                                                                           -                              D                                   LRE
rue  CD)'0  -..  Pu~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13 
PICAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
IES                                     LA~~~~~~~~VROSPel VooIP S O 
LA FL                                                                                                                                                    MON            BALI.                                ER )0 0RALD
PLATACI, L.'                                             MbsRC8PC~.T                                                                                                                                                                                      PA
LA LIDEPAII.....                         u         N..  
/                        Four -YearIXT   HIGHWAY  PROJECT
For-erSecondlary  and   Feeder  Roads  Improvement  Program                                                                                                                                                           .LA
LOS RIOS                                                 Provinces  of  Los  RioC  and   El Oro
BOO*PODAL                        ~~~~~~~~EXISTING  ROADS.                                YEAR  PROGRAM
P-ved                                             -        PRO
G  U A  Y Ak                             ~~~~~~~----  P.ved Jrder C-DSSAIRO-                              Sec-d
SALI, Gs>          AAVACI                 0                                  UnPaved                                         -       ThIRd                                                                                                                                                       ",-J
E0C 2 DE I                    OTN                 del T-mbo
ASSATA LOEA                                                                                                                    Fou,th                                                                   A
C.,&-.D  c>                                            -.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P- .-oonIl Bo,nd.,-                                                                                                                  Pueblo N.'                 eRS  odr
'4<                                                         IIP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teRROfioROl BouTories                                                                                                        M\cdnauc
1<  I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'t ~~~~~~~Riuer, s
.A.AA.                  L                                                      I       I       0              ?       2
EL ORO                                                        P0M,~Po*TcWM.c9O.A,DP1C60,c






8O0       T-       79i - ou i                                                                                      EL 00'RMC N
E C U A DC) R~~~~~~~~ L COL
(~~~Y   /  \        ECJADOR                                    F4LMAP/                          CTJE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWLJ
(~o 505           SIXTH  HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOS RIOS     a,    Four -Year  SeCondary  and   Feeder Rcads                                    E~ ..AA
Rutuvo02                    ~~Improvement  Program                    TO,0IRaln
GU  ASAS                                 ~~~~~~Province  of  Guayas                    .~ ~              r
~~~n~~~s.voniia  "4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                -    ~~~EXISTING  ROADS
O5,~~~~~~~~MA ..~~~~~~~~~~~.  . I                                                       . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved
tISOSIl  )                                                  .                    (3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --Paved Under Construction
Unp-vd
/                                       ____                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEAR PROGRtAM:
1(5.0< 1                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-First
~~~Q  /                                                       . ~~~~3~- Second
\  20   00                 /                                 /                         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Third
KICOAETERS                                                                                                     ......... ATFo-th
1~~~~~~~~,. ~~~~~~~~~~Rio  nLCD                         EST IIABUTAS  Ao T,o
~~~~ -  I                                                                                    -.-  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ternoti.ono  Bo,,ndari-
P TRERG~ ~~~~~000 ERO
uFrED        ANE
klj                        EL DL VILLA~~~~~~~~~5               )0/ A7A                            N  ODLFA
POtiiRSIRTosusL                                          'i    oicRI
LZ A 4LTA                         FIJI LLQ                                    c ~~~~C;~Ti;TjA5IA  s;P~0CTO)CHILNTOMTO        SE
MC r  PFTR LLQ                           H~~~MIgrR   s..u                       iisvr~uu
-IL   1)  HO                                       ELX  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_RL LanoA          EL N  T                        s~
LIATriIn               A IF'
Juan Ovmnu Rendon   (~~~~J5AS<1   5i              PRO iN' ~N     MARTL                        MATLD ES.E
4    '0/ ~~~~~~~~E  'E                       02IT
~~~~EFIAaTLt~~ITmf.
P-                                      P~~~~~~~~~~10    ARPARTO  /
OTT    050                                                     U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA-,  4UR DS
ores ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~-'- /~~SA                                                           TAl R.MPOOR 0CHURTE
oUu Lv020
'Guif~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5( OTR ntrv pf                                                              00 RiO
ran,                                                      I                        Th,.IC RI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ELCEIQO                                  ace~~~~HO IT 
00 0.a~~~~~.Mv,e0nThRNtal00ROSy0  -----*                                           iON~~~~~~~~~~~~E aAR2
ati0,.R0.snRR.iflav0yv5O'WaOi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vnrO in.  -.'...~~~~~~~~~~ 0RO\.
o..o,.~~~~ ~  iIA.yse*Uvrnin v,,Iv~~~~~~~~v.RvvvJIR,     9        A N
~~anii.va.unrov,~~~~~~~~~~~~~rv. in.R.gvn,,..yy~~~~~~IE F. IA
~~v.aanuvvnovvavu.eivn                                                                                                                                            - '0~~~~~~~~~~~~4
11  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2 ~ ~ ~      ~         ~          50. 010



