E473 vol 1
Feb. 1996
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION AND TOURISM
GERENAL ROAD DIRECTORATE
MILOTI-LEZHA ROAD DETAILED DESIGN
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
Prepared by
ICP
S.I A INFRAPROJECT CONSULTING Sh.p.k.
Tirana - Rr. Sami Frasheri
Tel/Fax 0035542 28321                              TIRANE, FEBRUARY1996
r'vLC OPY



r5U\TJIIABLE'O  CO)NTlEl N 'I"
1.   Executive suiitiar-y
2.   Project Description
3.   National Environmitenital Policy, legal and administrative framilework existing in the Country and
Lilder- wliicih tlie EtIA was preparedl.
4.   Baseline data: assessmniiL of the stu(ly area incltudiniDg description of tihe relevant plhysical,
biological and socio-economiiic condiiois.
5.   Environilmienital Ifmpacts: ilenltiricatioln aiid asscssimient of both positive and negative impacts
likely to result from the proposed project.
oi.  Idenitification of alternatives: comparison of dliferenit alternatives in relation to tile overall
benefits accruting from selectioii ortthe proposedl route.
7.   Mitigation  plan: identificationi of cost-efrective measures to  redtice potentially adverse
environmenital impacts includinig costing of measures, instittitional traininig and monitoring
recluirclllemets.
8.   Environilimenital Management ancd Trainiing: assessment of environimental capacity within the
Alb.mnian Committee for Environmr2ental Protectionl ot  at ithe Miinisterial level including
legislation, I-egLIlations, etc., based on the findings, ,econimeidations on the buildinig of
capacity in the agency.
9.   Envirniinicitia,l monitoring plan: specilication on the type ol' ioniitoring, the responsible agency
and thc approx. costs,
10.  Sumimnary of mitigation measures
I I.  Conlclusis(lls.
2



,S'I' SOF ACIRONYIMIS AI)OPlTll)
CUP  = COMmllittee on, Environmental lProtectioni (Albaniia)
NIRC  = Italian National Research Council
EBRD = European Blank for Reconistruclion and Development
EIA   = Environiniieielal linpact Assessniciit
EU    = European Union
GRZD  = General RoadI Directorate of lle Albanian Ministry ol'ConstLruction andc Tot.rism
M9ol-I1   Miniistiy of 1lealtth
Mvlol  = Ministry of interior
moCT = Ministiy of Cons;ruction and Tourism
OD   = Operational Lii-ective
PIU   = Project linplemilentation Uniit
roR   = Terms of (eferecnce
W3  = The Worldl Dank
3s



|,   IExeciilOAC cullilmlaly
-Ille present (locunieiit presents findings froin tihe strengthening or tile  linvironmilental Impact
Assessiment roi* the proposed reliabilitation of the NMiloti-Lezlia road locate(d in thle Rcpuiblic of'
Albania, subinitted by the Albanian company ICP to the World Blank to finance conlstruction works;
it was prepared by two EIA Experts, according to the ToR prepared by a WB staff.
1he aim of EIA is to ensuire thiat the competent Authorilies give exhiaustive consider-ation to the
polentiaily negative anid positive eflects on the environment i oiii imnplemientation of the proposed
infrastructiures at an early and preventive stage, in or(ler to stippor-t the decision-makino process witi
tihe necessary information. The environment whiicih will be aflected  by the so-called  target
environiment, shiould be regarded in its natural, economic and( cultural-social componelnts, in order to
liave a holistic approach whien addressing issuies at stake.
Thle ETA also ensures that in case anticipated negative elTrcts are unavoidable, ad lhoc mitigalion
ilteasLires are prol)osed and implemente(d during construction of the infrastrueture. In lthis conltext it
is stressed that iniligatioil measures are an important component of desigin of thie roadl schemiles and(
arc related to standards on road traflic, saicty, environmental and economilic terms.
Tlle methodology adopltcd for carrying out ille assessmenit consisted in field visits to time location of
t*Ie road to collect data, followed by otlice work to retine iin(iiigs and write the EIA report.
Mectinigs withi Albanian oflicials fromii GRD, the Miniistry of I lealtih, CEP andl tihe ICP staff have
played an important part in the work exectile(l.
'1lhc present (loctlime.t is organiise(d accor(ding to the Wl3 0D 4.01, starting withi project (lescription,
.lc legal and instilutiomal Irainework on tihe llA context, tlic Albanian national enviroilnenital policy,
b.aseline (lat on the si ndy area, identification of potenitially negalive ilfpatAs, selectd(l solution,
miltigalionl planis, s stions for environimientail managemnemnt tiaining, envionlimenilal mionitorinlg
I1lic Appendix presents ilhe list of persons / organisations inivolved( in preparing th1is Report.
'I



2.   PIoject l)eseCillpiion
-;':1  present project C-Ills in the_ context of tile existing siltuation conceriiing tile stattis of the road
lnetwork andl trallic foreseen in Albania ancl deals witli ltel- rehabilitation of the  utislhe-Miloti town
(kim, 0) to km  12.3')3 near the towin of Lezit. hI'lie project will permit new speed and safety standards
for both passeniger aind commercial velhicles.
It aiils at upgrading the existing road cond(litionis in view of thie anticipated tr-aflic inicrease from tilhe
present aboout 3,900 velhicles/day (of whicih 2,300 cars and(I 1,600 tl-rucks) to over 5,000 in the year
1998, aoid a subsequ-mit increase rate of 6%/year. Average travel speed is planine(i to increase from
lhe cur!eiit 25-3() kmi/li to 90 kin/ti tlo  nioloi' cars, and fromii 20-25 lo 60-70 ki/li lor trucks.
Ilie feasibility  stud(ly ol tlle new  r-oad  section  was dtlveloped  takinig  illto  considerauioni the
roialipatibility or otiherwise of tlhc inlvolvetd iniriastirctures witii t lie local enviroinmienital parameter-s
ild specific landscape (A the rciat-ed aren. 'Thle lollowing are the main (lata oftihe project:
Lenigith ofroa(d sectioni 11.743 kmi otliicw roa(l and( 0.61(1 kini ol upgrading of existinig road
* Cross-sectioni: (3.75*xz) + (1.75**x2) = I .00rn
- Longitudlinial slope: ncarl-ly flat; 1.7nJn slope approach for Mat Itiver bridige and 2.8% sIope
ilpproaches for l)rin ltiver bridge
M Itderpassns willt iiirban anid secondary roa(ls
long bridges on NMati lP iver (L- 650mii) and on Drini River (1, = 200m)
4 shiort bridges
[lPoject standards: NRC for designi spcel = 80-100 kphi
* Road surfacing formed by: 25 cm granular base; 10 cm asphalt base; 5 cm bin(ler couirse; 3 cm
wearing coulse
L;iteral slopes: 1: 1.5
I'laniinetr-ic trend: near-ly straight
* eneral orientationi: NNW-SSE
d) = (irive and( overtaking lane; (**) = unpaved shiouilder-s
M1ore comprehensive details anid project reCquiremilenits are provided in Sectiolns 2.2 and 2.3 of tlle
rePort prepared by ICP. Also, Sectioni 4 describes the newv road witlh techinical chlaiacteristics of the
eiject, cini,jat  andl h1ydrilological conditions, geological and gcoteciinicatl coniditioIIs, pavemilent
CSIgn. snrucluri-es, ro(ld salety, exprolpriation tlan and cost estimate.
5



3      Nalolfial EnIIvirmlineICiItal PoliCY, ICeII JII(l ( liiiiistiafiive fia1i1Cwoik cilireilt in AINaniil
1ank iii  cojifoi-riaily to wiich I   le HA vas lI'cll IeIl
11lc Albaniani national policy lior plot ection o∞I tht enviliouiienit lhas beeii iicireasinigly directed at
imlling ilte prop(e)r ieiasures to tackle the prooblemi. To lhis endl time Committee for l nvironinmemial
Irolcction (CElP) was created. The Comimittee comes wtiii the Tirania Ministry of H-lealth anid is
comJ11posed of menibers iroin var iots Nlinistries, eacih specialised in specific environmeii tal fieldis.  le
ComunjitteC'es lihadquarter is witlinii the Mimmistiy of I lealtli, witli branlices located in the capital towI13
of eacih national district (see Article 9, Chapter 2 of Lawv N∞ 766it of January 1993). One of these
branches is located at l-ezie.
It is plaijiled to stienigilteni the CEI' in the neai- future so as to enhance its role in proposing and
,enfor6lcing mi eastur-es aiimcd at environmental pr-otection.
Alithouighi at present laws oln specific imialters of tlie environimienit have not been enacted yet, thc miaill
reference in  ulis regar-d can be represenited by Law No. 7664 dated 21 January 1993 (lhereinafler
meferred as the Law), eniclosed as Alnnex 11 to (lie presenit (locumiienit, The Law  refers to general
clauses (Chapter 1), EIA (Cliapter 2). Witli regard to the latter it is to be noted that the present
docuimilent poinits otit that the Law  identifies CEP  as the Autlhority  em)pcwered  to require
environmilental impact assessmflciits in accordanice withi tihat Law  for this tyl)e of intervention.
H however, the Mol-] is the authlit(iiy responsible for eslablishing tlie procedures regarding ElIA
activities and tile activities of indlividiuials or legal cntities. Chapter III dleals witlh the licenses to be
issued for activities that alfect the envijoninicnt, and a specitic list ofsaid activities is liresentetl. I'he
Law then comprises Chapter IV (inspections or and iiltormnaltioni for the environineuital situiation),
Chapter V (dulies anid rights of central anid local institttionis on environimenital protection), Chapter
VI (responsibilities and related sanctiois), and Chapter VII reporting final provisions.
I lowever, it shotild be noted thiat the Mol I froim timne to time issues documents of various nature
stichi as gtlideelnes, provisions and regilations which also ailect, tle activitics of CEI'. For illis reason
a complete review o.' relevant legislation is not possible, eveni if it is believed that the Law can be
taken as a benchmark.
Aniother law whj:cl is iadloliLed in the execution of the lIA is the Law oni expropriation, reqtuiredc
whenever any strip of lanid has to be expropriate(l for ptiblic purposes, Law No. 7848 dated 25 July
1994 and closed as Aniiex 111 to the presentl documiienit. For tihe ptirposes of this documilenit the main
provision is represenled by the riglit to appeal for citizens (Chapter V) against time expropriation of
lind Ilere the owner oFimmnovable properties has tile right to appeal to the district court within 60
days from thile datt ol' receiving notification (ArticIes 22 andl 23). Following ihis, thiree experts are
0Eminaltd for [lie appraisal of the property andl the amotiit dute for compensrition, and the deadline
for presentinig the appraisal of the property to be expropriated is fixed. Two of the experts are
f1ominaled by thie cotuilt and one by the owniler of the lanl.
C0aPter V  is tlhe section of the law  to which refereince is nade in case portions of land are
expropric1ted for the constiructionl of tlhe road, as 11 60 lia of agrictultiral land are scheduled to be
c.'iropriale(l Cliapter V[ is aniothier section of relevanit initecest in our case , as it ad(lresses the
t'l'lpoiraly Ise of imimilovable property, wlicih may be thie case (dtuinlg the exectitionl of the enivisagedl
r5tel 8   frameworkc i.s conm)pleted by Law No. 7968 date(l 15 April 1993  whiicih addrl.-sses tile
irtt tim' i otl lanid and conimpelnsalionl measill-es in thle event portiolns of land( hieve lheeni or- will be
ProPli ialed l.  is enclosed as Animiex IV lo tlhe presenit documienlit.
6



llaiselilic dlalia: :ssc:m1ilen1t of lfie situ(ly anrea incluiniiijg  descriipfon  of Ilic relevant
p)hIysical, b)iElogi-1al and Socio-ecollonlic codltlitiolis.
1lis paragraphli ti lilles  the existing infiormation and initegrates the miissing onies. accordiog to tile
-e.:lest of I'ORts.
,    Plysical enivironiuimeait
ThC area of' ilhe PIro,Ject is miainly compilosed of a flat plain resultinig fioin the reclamiationi of the
c,.C,,e(nmel area. tlimatic and hydrological contilitiomis of' the Mlilot - Lezhe road are reporte(d in
,Xiiex I of tie Techinical report prepared lby ici'. 'rhe Aninex specifies the geographic location,
ci,iatiC Conditions (i- terms oi' rainfl,ll, sniow, air tenmpcrature, wind), lhydfrologic conditions (ir.
.erms of cl-ossinig of the Mati i iver, maximumi  water level and flood discharge, crossingt of the river
Diii of Lezha). Paragraph 4.4 also reports additional inftrmation on the same topic. 'Time geotogical
conditiolis are reported in Annex 11 and in paragraph 4.5 ol thie samie report.
4.2   Biological enivirmioieinaeit
clK road to be constructed passes thlrouLghi a reclaime(d area presenitinig a lhigih degree of huLIlan
waletenits for agricultural purposes. Thlerefore there is a certain scarcity of biological diversity,
which is mostly represenited by thie commoni animal and vegetal species of scarce value. The Lake of
czha is the only area still bearing a certain degree of nattiu-al chiaracter ; At present utilised for
hntinfg purposes; it is located at a distanice of about 4 km li-omii the proposed  road, thcrreore is not
ected by any impacts.
Socio-ecoimoniiic cof(litionis ol timc siitly alrea
ilicc(i il, paragrap!)- zi. I the area mainly preseuis an agiicuiltiural character, wviicli is redlected in
hind of eimployyeiCnt available for the resident population. Crops ar e represcite(d mainly by wheat
ihd is ctillivate(d in farimued strips alternating to unlaurmed strips, wilist the r est of the land is lefl to
ve  pasture for sheep and cattle, witli presence of animal breeding for family purposes.
Kofal economilic activities a,-e represented b)y a number of scattered shops selling goods of
natuire. Tle remaining part of the resident negligible population is employed in economiiic
is in tile townqs of t'ilot and(l Lezha, comprising siops of various nature, workshops, etc.
7



E5divilollaelntall Ii.iajtcts: ifiezili;calio,i iaiad iISsessIIelin t ol' both  plEsitivC  lndt niegative
j,J )actS likely to I-esolei 11'0111 tile pl)OlSIed project.
hlis section deals with the eentilicatioln of potential impacts geicr-ate(d by the execution of project
wor-ks. In the light of tile context in whlichi the presenlt EAA  lias beeln executed, idlenitification of
ilipacts for soil, water. air (ltiality, ilora and( hauna, noise 1)cilutiiol, land ac(quisitioni atirl resetilemenit,
cultural 1lenitage anid riul safety is prcscnled in thie followviing talcs 5. 1 to 5.8.
5.1 KIND OF IMI'A 'S                   IDiEN riFICATiON  )F IMMPACIS
ON Tf IE SOIL   ___ _
_ _ _____                    IRE1SENCE                ABSENCE
il crosiolt                                   X (5)                    X (5)
nstable sl)pes                      _X (1)
-lipping   of   spoil   ilmicrial              X (3)                    X (2)
ljoinainlg agricultuiral land  -_I
1i conlaifli ti lioui fi-omi Iuiloff          X (4)
Cy
I) TIhere is nio genieration of this impact, as the road is located in a llat plaill
2) Thiis in the case wheni top soil is utilise(d to create vegetationi strips on the road slopes.
3) If inert portions of soils will be spoiled, as they are neitlier utilisable for creating vegetational
hips, nor for ctiltivationi puirposes tihey constitute a "waste" genieratinig nlegative imlipacts
4) TIhis can be the case if water coming fiom  the road surlace is not collected in an appropriate
rainage sysiCIii
S) lThis cani be tiie case of embankments only, as the roacl dfoes niot genet-ally foresee roacd cut.
5.2 KINI) C1 IiPACA S        1
ON WATEI 11IDEN'I'iFICATIoN OF IMIPACTS
_  . .     I'PIM-SENCE            AIBSENCE
.11 C[ I4 iii lOlfIoti i cd(l, i. ihc, dtst,
'Jlllccs pillilges   and   oil2;         X (1). (2)                 x (2)
OI)LIry ilulr,cIc1s of rpntlmlc  waler
29IF1lClulta;I  laid, glrolan41 Ivatcer
u''IhI aii      pOtliiilioll ol1 Il, Mat    X (3)
I1 1)1l 111 C. 
L Z    r   ia   u.nTC I pu Ic IS          {.i:()    _   _   _  ______________
D) ust silouNl be inclui ed althioughl it cautses low inilpacts
presellce and/or absence of lea(l .iti(1 zinc (depicllds 1puon thle corr-ect uise of uLilea(le(a fuiel and
nlJilutelnance of enlgines. Tle niaii pollultanhts pr`o1duceId by  unnilillg vehIicles at-c: solidc  prt-Jicles
x""'OSO, metal, tyres, roadl surfiace), lead, cadiiumii   anMd orlgallic CoMIIpoLUIdS (ggrease, liubricating
ruibber, etc.). hlie elfects are signiticant in streams at the poinis ol emission (rninollf discharge
ns). Accidenteal spillage could  rcl)resent tlhe urost daugerOLIS pollutants for water COurse.  h'lie
ce ot ilportant rivel-s like Miat and [Drin places an imupoitant role in the protection of water
8



qtla:ily anId aqs(ocialcl vegclal b'.ola. Atlelitiiol shoul(l be (Icvoleci lo the Mat all(d Drilt river cossigs
t( av(oiI sutbsltiatial alterattions in hlie local hydrological systeln suipporting biological coiniiiiities
,ylicil may be lo)(:ited eve!i far away fromi ilic sttd(ly area.
{i) The generation of thiis kind ci pollttion sgihiiicanitly depends upon thie potiring of pollutedl watcrs
from the road stirface, utpon the i,griccl.iwral land in tur-n reacllinig groulidwater through percolation. p
(4) Rtoadi cogisitruiction initerIl es with the pattern of existing drainage and irrigationi system
5.3 KIND) OF iMI'ACTIS FORt
AIR QUALITY                        IDENTIFICA'IrON OF IMPAC'I'S
____                          PitrSErNCEI               ABSENCE
(kilcr.t;o!l  &rdnst                           X  (2)
pollnlioi fro.a leaded gasoliine: lead
.11d acrosols                                  X (1)
!i.isvoiI of cadt,ovn iiolloxidc anmd
qculpihlir dioxidc                             'X (I)                             .._.
Key
tI) nothi impacts dependct uponI thie use of leaded gasoline
(2) Dust is iisually neg1iiéible for new paved road
5.4 KIND OF  iM-AC't'S tOR..
FLORA AND FAUNA                       IDENTIFICATION OF IMPACTS
PRII'IE.I-4NCE            A13SENCE       _
(IJ 1'A ilt  ih)cd ;11 tile biologic:al envir-oniliment (sec par- I 2) the road( affects onily a civilised area,
*4"e(- rc fuirp:ItIs on nattiral environimiienit are absent. The saile aipplies to constriuctioni miaterials,
'.5 I iN,, t)1 INII'AC'I' S I O r       i)I'N'I'INFICATiON Ol; INiPA(CTS
tMDi,r PoIIt J rIoN             ___.__|
__ |_ I'RFi~l7- A I.SENCE
,=~___ _                          __-____xl
I  fou,l Ia qu;Irrhls. ciil;IIez-s andi                                           I 2.
l E agils                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x (13  
Ia lact PIasses thlrouigh a scarcely populated area pre¢-eiitin1g onily scattered rurcal ltousing
e  soLiLces Of' illpacts are locatedl lar away iioiii ilie site olfilhe roal. F'urilhiermiore
al arcas ar-e pr-esent iln ille z(onc
9



_ _ _ _____             _=       ___ -         .--    :_ .          . _   _ 
5.6 KINI) 01 INIPACl'S 10R         ID)E.Nt [IF ICATI'ION O( IMPACTS
LAND ACQUISII'ION
PI3ESIiNNCE           AllSENCF,
Kzy
(lTe land expropriation involves excitisively agricultural lad(l and does not affect coinmitillity
areas. The occupation area of the road is estimated to l)e about 27 ha, but the siurtace lost for
agriculture may be estinia(ed at approximilately 12 lia, excluding waterways, abaandonied land snd the
land reclamation service areas .
(2) No desinictiont ot dwellitigs andcl resettlements are Ioreseen along the road alignmenit
5. KI1JPi OF IMPACTI S FOlR         IDIENTIFICATION OF IMPACTS
rULTURAL IIIRITAC         _
I'PRI'SENCE           A13S[NCE
g,s  la  inioniliuilcils   of
I valtic__________________ 
-XII KiNtI) OF)' INIIAC'l S l,O9R
-_ ------   _SRSNCE                              _ASENCE
) Ii s^j cacl o roadl u!sers by the increase of thte average travel speed
tod wload iIIt tIll,Ih)jte ar-eas crossilig
I(0



6.   1,lcntlific:tion ol' alterna;itives: CompaLrIisoln o,, dilicelnt '11ltclativcs ill relaltioll i4 tfle
I)VCrl!lI b)eiefits of selectinig the pIrfop(osCed route.
Alternative selectic,i is an imyiportalit component orElA ais it helps 1o idlentily the inost appropriate
5tjLilitnS respectilng the needs of both the target environimlgenit andl thie proposed developmenLt In this
way benefits from the imilplementationi of developments can be mnaxiniised and potentiially negative
;pacts can  pe prevented, or at least siginificanitly mitigatedi at an early stage.
lterilatiV's hlave been compared amongst each othier in the ligiht oFtihc above concepts. The chioice
f tlle selected alternative is SUpported by findin8gs acquired (durinlg tlhe field visit anid iniformation
om tlle road adid by readinig project miaps tioni Lezhia to Miloti soutliboutid, whiich is the patterii we
ave followed duriing the field visit. 'ITle rlesignl mWapS peinnit to inctiude specific comimlenits on t(ie
plimal alignmelnt of tlle road.
he stiudy of the road aligunient ideentifies two "Ihot spots" with the related necessity to avoid to pass
arLy or acr-oss the villaiges of Ishiull-Shigjiini and( Ishul-Lez.ha. I'l'erefore, the most appropriate
igninlenit is represented by locating the road in areas withi the. lowest density of hiousing, whichi in
ir case is located in between sai(d villages. This solutioni avoi(ds to (lestroy and/or resettle any
W<iings. 'rihe compromilise requLilring elli road to pass nearby a limiied lLumber of rural houses is the
licomie of tliis chloice, wvlicli is u:navoidable duLe to the layout ol said holises whiichi are terraced.
iher rural lhouses are located at kml 5.5 anidl 4.5 respectively. Withi regard to kim1 4.5, tihe presence of
curve is jtistifiecl to avoid potential interactions withl u.b-llan hIousilng in correspondence of Gajushii.
this way the aligimieiit becomes parallel to an existing ruiral road aniLd passes in the vicinity of onily
ce niral houses.
above mentioned solutions design a roadl shorter thau tlhe ol(d one (12.3 knm agaiinst about 15.0
on one side. This is presenited by tile following Table explaining the reduction of thie timne
.ired to travel along thie road. On the other side the selected solutioni impr-oves enor-miioLisly tiafrnc
)V condilionis withi [lic possibility to maintain conistant travel speed, wilich meanis less accelerations
J deceleration's, in tuL-1n increasing ilte enginie perforilanice. Rtevolutionis pel  Niniuitc (RPM) of lie
"C;  woull(d tilen be very close to the optimial 651%1 ratio; consequently, the "rui-iniig engine tinie"
Id be retitice( of at least 70%  as the timie to travel along the road wouldl be redUced as so anid
blned gas empissions vill also be reduCcel of abouit one third-l.
'I illlC of tr.lvel
.  _  _    ro~~~rad                               Netv l-oad
_ _ _ .s~~~~0-kll  }..........5 kiil/iiiiil  90.  4( kiiiJIi =   1 ....5 kiii/iiii
= ----- 1'.5 k m/mu iiu= 3(u uin  .      12.3 kiii 1J likm/winiii = 8.2 inll
/.kii/iji,i    65 ki/h 60 mii = 1.011 kimn/miuii
_S kii} 0. 18  395 ~            12.3   1.03 k9.hnin  1 1 . mm
no lOWIus Will be crossed by time new road and( tile level of air quality will not be significantly
iCcomplpred to levels prior to hlie imnplemientation ol' lhe r-oad.
II



7    NiligliOll p11lait: i'delicatliOil ol' cost effective nineasures to reduce pHotentially adverse
CiiVjlzzi0tI)ICIi l  imiar;cts  iicludintig  costinig,  institutiona:l  trainiuiig  aiiaid iaoiito iltig
rerpli elments foi dilese i netisriares.
tj,(;atiria nmeasuires are? directedt at rducing the imiipacts generatedJ by tlef constiruction and/or
ciated opera!iols. In- this ca3s a set of' mitigation measures is prop)osed in relation to eacih kind of
nllpact as identified in parugraph 5.
.1.  MVitigatioll maicasmes against imlpacts oni soil. (Table to 5. 1)
oil erosioil call be mitigated by lplanlinlg vegetalioni (shirbs and(i grass) on embankimienit slopes using
p soil taken 1roiii excavations. This also avoids tihe spoil of tol) soil whichi can be re-titilised. Soil
nianiination  can be prevented by collectinlg water coiiinig Irom  the road surface into a new
propriala drainage systeiai, suicih as canals located at thIe base of'eachi side of the road.
e slope of the eribaniikmenits ancl tile Use of gramilar malerials provide also gloodl conilitions for re-
r&tvtll of Vegetation.
or thc same reasons we considue that tfie lining of canal and  river- sides wotilcd be less efficient in
*ms of nature conservationi, if lhydrauilic efficiency is preserve(l. Rteno type mattress and gabions are
qI for the emniibkiiienit protection at tlie Mat Rtiver.
2. Nliligaliot imieasiures lgailnst ilmlpacs On W*ater. ('[able to 5.2)
wIcr fror tlhe ioatd surface is collected rby the drainiage systemils andi the speed of polluted water can
rctidced and inl'iitrationi rate increased by turfing the embankment slopes . Water drainage patterns
Id not be modlified in order to avoici thfe contact between polluted and irrigatioln water. For this
rPoSe on1 tbotih sides of the embankmenit tihe (Irainage canals wili be mantained and / or completed
lo.ver elevation tlian [ihe ad'jacenit irrigation canal. Also, iliere are positive synergies witil thle
tection of faunia (see).
rning the Mat anic Drini rivers, provisionis are ma(le to protect Ilte river-s waters fr-om being tIre
ICZ rccipizlit of polluted niiof1, collecting the pavement xalter-s into side pipes whichl finially will be
se;x   Into inulrration pits close to botli edges of the bii(dges.  lalitinig of native trees, shruib and
b4tous, Crralis wouldl represent a fuL-tlier valid imicasuIre to beniefit the biotic potetlial and better
Iio1ijse llhe road witih tire stirrounarliaig landscape.
Mfiliga,io, ulleastres agaitist impacts ont air qmilily. (Table to 5.3)
-   niflOlt miflh igation iieasuires consist in imphlelentiLng vcgetationi screcns to filter air
IOtb,  ith  Positive ellects also lrm nloise polltitioni. 'I'o pievent tile generation of part of' air
Yn the use of unleadled gasoline and proper enginie inaintenanice, wliicli also improves vellicle
* ate elij..isaued1
12



^ijin jg the work-.s it is iO 1otant  to try to avoid tihe geCMIa lioll of tiust dule to  IuaIrries and asphlalt
plaits activity. I lowever, in tlhe cass of the present road, sinice tile majority of conlsti-uLcioll iatel-ials
cofc from exisfilig quaiiies locate(l ouitside the project area. tlie possible impacts are very linited andl
rail be avoi(ded  witil the use of bag lhtouses, imecihanical cyclones, etc., as prescribed in teie
re itirements forl nle%v conacrete and asphalt plants.
hlic road is far 1roiui most of iihabited areas and sensitive recept)ors closer tlhan t on ni to tlie r-oad are
initei to somlle farnms. I'lhc area is also rather win(ly, this mneanis that thie atmosphere cani be easily
.lIlealed autachling liiiiited importanice to tihis iteim.
.4. Mitigaititinl ite;asures nguilist i"Pac"s on l1o01a timd tuilila. (Table 5.4)
rolio ilie project desi-gn, uniderpasses coniiectinig botli sidles of tlhe roacd are schiecdtlcd on average
cli 3 km in correspondence of bridges. This situationi mighit be ameliorated by constructing ftin ther
mid,rpasses, alitholgl it is r-ather clillictilt to imilpleinenit teliti (ILle to the scarce clevation of the toad
in tihe grouLid. T'hereiobe unclerpasses canl be scheduiled, oni con(litioni of priror testing of the lheiglit
i .t,e watertable; if this ;s excessively hiighi uiderpasses cainnot he built buit this is not a significantly
'ative conseqiuenice duie to the scarce presenlce of natural ftLunia, being the area witli hiigh prescince
humnnan settleniienits.
tc trespassing of the road shiotuld be avoided by the presence of botlh drainage and irrigationi
stnms located at eacih side of tihe road, whiichi is anothier mnitigaition measuLe in place (drainage
nals are 1.5 2.Oii deep).
i. NtiEisi ilio  omueasiures agailn3t nioise polilimi. (Table 5.5)
ncrally nloise will be iitigatecd b) thle same vegetation screens adopted lor ai; pollutionl. ITlere are
sclilenents locale(d near the roacd, except foi 7 flurnis lof  which it is foresecil to adopt woodl antt
'Etal barriers against noise.
c [lhe road is nlot located micar dwellings, impitact mitigation nieasuLes will concerni imiainily the
cms o  trIciks to the work yards. The existing road patterin will enisure easy connections to the
nic:ion site, eveni if the trucks trallic will increase dtinliig the conistrtiction works. We consider-
attic worst incolivenienices are likely to occur (Lirinig consIruCtioll of the unider-lpasses servilig thle
crossiglBs, obliging t., lower sliec(i andil colise(ltuelit traliic slow (lowil.
Mitigni ionl ullasill es ngainist iiiupacts oin laand cxpr priation. (Table 5.6)
has 'IO experience on expropriation of private land( and relate(l enfoicemilenlt of comrpenisalioll
r!e  LI", No 784  , currently in force, shioul(d ensuire thai impacts derivecd fioml expropriations
0"VINIggl all property lianciled
13



77. Nilitiganiol Siucasiu2cs agailst imilamacts oln (lie cuIlitral lhcritage *1d1( 1ttt landscape. (Table
5.7)
1*e culltura' her itage is tile PiClituct of Imman activity carried otit tlhroighi celItLiries anld it may be thle
case that ruins and settlemienits of archieological importance are present in the study area.
jlc;wever, it has been-ecognised that the present project (foes not alfect the local lheritage, tliererore
iluigalion meastires are not required.
riin the hIndscape point of view mitigationn measures for highi emnbanknients will be provided,
l1ougli the plauiting of native trees, shirubs and herbaceotis plants. The provision of extensive tree
lantatiolis in suitable areas on tihe river sides is also impor tant.
.X. Miigation Ilicasures sgaiiIst irill).-iCs oni roatd safety. (Table 5.8)
m* ioad avoicds to cross initenisely inhliabited areas and thie road safety refers mainly to the road users
nmselves. In this case appropriate road tiaflic sigins, niarkintg and r-oad intersections layoLit, road
rriers are the most appropn-iate measures to be enforced. Selling up of speecl limits anrl melateci
trolling from the Police service is aiiotlier effective tool.
n importanit point the authiority is called to define for the safety of road users is to discourage the
using of the road by farmers witlh tractors and, above all, by animiial-clrawn carts domestic animals
-d pcdesirians in the lowest sections in spite of the road embaniktiment-lope (1:1.5) an(d the presence
drainage canals.
14



,jivironl ullc&tail N1kialagelleit midX Traimilig: aissessinieill (if e,IviroliiiellIall poiiclitialil
,rainilg is an important component of EIA, beitng a valutial)e updating tool partictsirOy in thile
,\,lh ciall coitext. I'lhrotiglh effective training it is possible to dlevelol) ad lhoc expertise necessaiy to
prevenit and/or iiiitigate a(lverse environmental consequences hioin roadis, whlichi can theni be refined(
juring the course ofpractical application of EIA to roads.
,AilloulLgh it is foreseen tilat CEP be the central authiority dealing with EtIA matters in Albaania, it is
ecommened tilat Unit to establish withiin GRD, to acquire specific experlise on environmilenltal
isues related to road design, constLictioii anid mnaintenance. T1 is r eplies on the one hand( to the need
to (develop dedicated exPertise, and on the otlier to have ongoing liaisoniiig between those
r;spojisible for roa(d development and tilose responsible l;r environimiienital issues applied to road
shemes.
list of potential stibjects tc be dealt wihli in tihe traininig couir-ses for EIA and roadl schemies is
es.mted below:
Availaible resources and the environment witli eleinents for sustainiable development
The EIA process: general information and specific focus on roads
Environmlental management and conservation of natiral areas withi focus on tihe main biotopes
present in Albaania
PFinciples of environmental economics
Ptinciples of biology
P.inciples Orgeology
Elnvironmental polltition and( environnmental clhemllistry
1 lNlowinp is a list ol elective courlses:
LweMg impact ailCssillel)t methlodls
GwnulAtivc ilmlpact analysis
tlA al strategic level: Ipolicies, programmes and( plans
t*Omlnental I lealtli Impact Assessimlenit
ti mrpalact Assesslletlit
ImN*Sc OfelVirongineal ilnoIitoi-iing
,     Zfl.5sitnii and( biti i jer s
a41SIM techniques I( lIoctice aslhliait
and Ianleatle(i gasoline
15



*9   .liviroullelklilltI liIlintl-iilg 1)1.111: SlCCiIiCntiOtII oil hlle tylc of illonlitolring, respollsible
,ngelcy.
I )iiil"  the imupa-It assessment stage eventls can be rredicted witlh (lie aid of "arious leclinologies.
Al-ter implementation of a road thte (legee of reliability of' assessment of the impacts will be
..yaluated, Iby mnoaitorini, paranmetes tmlihise(l to assess eaclt imipact. IFurtliermore, monitoring allows
1o understand. if imlpact assessnlielnt was reliable, if unibreseemi events have occurred, regulations and
laws have been comlplied witli, anid to anlicipate trends of certain envim-onmental parameters.
the GRD should not be rcsponsible for moniitorinig environmental parameters for roads that GRD
las designied and( for v,/licll has been involved in the constnrctioni . Tlierefore it is advisable thlat a
ihiir'J paity s'iould be in clharge for mlonitoring . This party can be icdentified in CEP as operational
bedy, uinder the supervision of Mol-l.
16



I0.  StiiIiiIiHiY of iiigaIioie
- l fi                                              S -                -
IMPACTS         MITIGATIJON           DESIGN &         MONITORING          MITIGATION
lPvIPLEMENlT.        AGENCY            COSTS (US$)
. - _  <AGENCY
Soil erosion  [    Plantir.g          ICP & CEP              CEP               27,000
vegetation
Water p)ollution   Bridges drainage
systems,          ICP & CEP             CEP               1 915,000
embankmiient
_drainage canals_
Air polIltion     Vegetation                                                   17,000
screens, unleaded     ICP & CEI'             CEP
gasolille
;Flora& taunia   Avoid animal road                                               None
trespassing        ICP & Cl3.p           CEP
Nois-, pollutiokn  Vood/vegetal                                                 150,000
_barriers        ICP & CEP              CEP          __________
Land acquisition  Correct use of law      MoCT                CEI'               None
Damage to           None                none                None               None
caltural lieritage
Traffic and(i    Speed! limits,          Mol                Mol                N one
wofers accidenets = -oljce nairollins
- 1. c'ICltIlSitO.kS
T*  C3sildc1alia"iis  !-esente(d above indicate that no sinificant eilvirolimelital impacts will be
byd b( Ilie conisirLiction of the Fushie - Miloti - Lezlia roadl nd also indicate that great benerits
O bo der,ved coflcerning work oppoiltunities andl imipboveiielit of the social coIInditionls ol' the
-o"' PoPtillatioii.
__t_  CV leatio11 can be the attained oil condlitioni thal roadl wor-ks and subsequenlt maintenance
_-       Outl accor(ding to tie l)ar.iimeler-s and(I suggestiolns lprovidiedI in paragrapil 7. witi particular
on tvoi(lailcc (o pollution ot' rivers Mali and( Driii.
17



APPEN'DFM 1)IX
List o fpcir:son' / or,W-misationsi involve(d in preparing the I IA
ICl              M'r. V  (V;tili - P'iesili kii
(VI\r. A. I'ol wintai - loIe ('vic    ;wallger
Mir. S  (Carpano - FIIA I lx)peit
Mr. 1F  N'IarsaUlia - (Civil F.ii,llecr
W  13            NI r1. i Revucilla, Leai ir Task Foice Albaiiia
NI r. 1K  Shanikar. lI lA I3xpert
1,111RI)         NI r. S. Fnzelhelge;, I'micct Ofnicer
Nlr Y  Atlan. Road liislineer (Cofisultant)
C11,            Mr. C(. Deliu, Admninisiralivc Director ofCEP
MIrs. N. Planari i. i1irector o r1t i
I Ir. R. Slillakii, FIIViiolnlllCIlt Specialist
lonticct andl Clacs Solicitoirs: Mr. Mark F liart, Legal Assistant to Albaniati Governieeit
Mr Scolt C'ailIson, Legal Assistant to Albaniani Governinet



ANNEX J'
'rni, s .f ReIer,e, ,e f,or tlhe Lxec.ttio  ol th liIc Ei
IPrCe)arc(e by IXYB Staf



'Icritilse !l-o Iteferet ICC ll(c  Unliie tI II  Il;!Vit(t M I!l aJlimpact. RtCi)O   I'iepi ted by ICP for
f!!e Gtlcrnl   R otadtl. I)i rectt)ixial., o L-ai.'liiitd   F1'u f - Comiti ritiim ;!ti il_ kTtmIsm (1 lvelCo lyile!!t
Tlle improvemept of (lie Ito.ukls nltwork is an imliportanit componewt of tIhe
Govrierliment of Aalnia's Inivestmiett Pliat. It iS also (Ike basis for tlihe, proposed 'Oaid
Ncwork Develorment Slrategy of' Developen t in the Republic of AlbIIania, AugLust 1995.
The project colmJponCents proposed bor World Bank funditig iiiclile  thie reliabililatiomi of
iational roads in the Northerin andI Itl.e IFast West Corridor. 'I'lHc project comilponiewics
include:
Rchabilitation of tlie 'I'irane-Vore section (5.950() to 11.650) hil)
l(eliabilitation of thc lTa):ze-.u%slIc Kr rj;, seclimi (7 kii)
lZelij,aIilationi of tlic Uilbasan-lVogmadcc (63 kin)
and(l conlstructiolt of niew sectiotn tr')outt Mliloti to Lczzia  (l2 kin)
As the p)roject iiivolveO s tlIC coiisli-tictioii ol a new road, the World Hank requires that
the borrower precpcare an envirotiiwncita;l imiipact assessimient (1IA) for Ihe project. T'he
purpese of Ilic 11'lA  is improve dlccisioii miakinig and(l censure Iliat project optionis are
enviroinmenially soti5(1 mid sustiaiiiable. lilAs ioenitify ways to improve projects
cnvirowlnenally and socially by preventiing, Imilinimiziug, or initigatitig adverse impacts.
I'lle Governillent of Allbania has prepared t(lhe I l A rellort for; tlie NMiloti-Lczlha
.setion. Alter reviewinig the relort sIbl)mitled by GRIZ), the World 13anik is assisting thie
Governmiienllt Orf AlIbania strengllthen tlhc rel)ort and also coitiplele eavironmncoal analysis for
pruijcc# roads tiinlergoiiig rehaluihitadio.
Accordinig If) the Operatlio hal I)irectives of' tlhc Worl(d I ali c gui(lelitics, sectioIn
4.01, ;a Ft lAlz\c1(11     shold(I typicalily incliu c thle  lt)lvig scclions:
1.    LExc':nt ive soot mary - sii icnit f icaw   lit'idigs ad(l propo(sCd  nitimi()io  actionis.
2.      project ulescr ilplttion
3.     Ntatlli lll b17 voiii-ienial llol icy, L.egal ai (1 Adminiii istrat ive Framitework existilig in
tile c ulltrvy till(her whlicii the E;IA  wvas prcpared.
4.      illaselili ( ale - asSeSslilt of the sltiuly arca inicltuinig (descriptionI of die relevatit
S.      Pl1ysi-a l. biological and(I sociommco miiic coi(litiotis.
EvivtrotnmllCt(1 Illp,,acts: 1t41iliticalion and assessmilent of botli positive anid negative
6.      ilip.acts likcly to result fromi tlime proposed l)roject.
idelilc Iion(;|  of A`l i ves: ( 'm nttl)arison ot (I di[fer- mit alternatives iti relatio(1  to
he, oVerall IbeuefiSlo to tie Celiv iroiliei aum I I lie bctnclits of selectioti Ilie proposed
iOIJt1d



7.        MI;I;pa;II;ll P'lan1: 11lCIfIIjl jL';I j1),1         ljclj/ 111 (S   l(ttIj t; l';Stiltes it) rdi'CtlC'. pIIIIIic lluly
adIV'se eiivIrtiiinetulli..l  illacits iliCltidilig, cotSI ig *11 IlIese IllteIsures, iSlituiionial
(taininuig  nt t  Inallilorinig renliltcilnenlls fuzr IIll'se nica.sull-es.
3,~      l:4iiv iioninid Mial Nna-emencit nI dnt 'I raining; assCssiliCl t,  en(i           Oivironlilenl ell capIaciy
widbiii tilte agt:liy or; at tile Minimeirii   vel iill(citlilil) iegisl;.on, reguilaliolls, etc.
BIascdl oil Itiulillts, lecoillililellkil)ills on tiele 111tillilig O*  capaIcily  ill Ilie alcicy.
9,       }471Vilf, illyn illial MIo ilili lig Plaln): Specil"caliot i thn   lyl )y of nionliioriolg,
rcsIOlSxJibl3e ae tiC)' aii(' (lie apl)lWox costs.
(),     Appendices: List o1f Crsuis/orlnizid  01i7S pi) m I;Inpi (l                LI  A, ieiA lellces, recotr(ds
oi' constllation ilcetinigs .viuli stakelholders.
no-rocLPLaretl3 (Lh1 QCI' l`o                  iLc  lN1iel-IA2:ll. SctJio
'Tlie EIA  report pI)repare(  by 1(1' (locs iect part ol !lie reCIiiirciuielIIs as
iiitlicaie(I il 11he World( Baltik 01) 4.01 , bUt re(liliries slreiigIleiiieg  in 111C fiollowing  ircas -
dCescrijtioti of flhe 1)1OiCy, leg.ll al:dl institutional fIrimeworl :, preparationI o0' itiiigationll
maniagementi  and(l illoiitoriig lilai, idlctii fica Idon of tlaining iie icC(ls and(  approx CoS;S  or tihe
niitigationi mleastures, molnitorinlg  and(i training complolelnts.
Ill discuIssion '.vith Gf1!) 1antd ICP coii;iil aIIIs, it Was dcidedI tljlt, til  rePort
wouild be slIenighII:iieci in the folowiiig areas:
1       I ),!.Ycidbe Inc legal and ilStIi*ll uesstd frwne    ork /jlr addreSSing enrlinl)in mental
hsxues ill AIIlbania. 'T'hiis could he piepare(l wilit  lie assistalce of ihle Coninititee  ior
lFliviromlflen(al Preservation and   rotectlioll ill the Iviinllistly of' I l  ialth.  'I'li  sectlioll Alid
also (jcscrilie Ile lnew  legisljalioll on ex)roprialion ol land adl lhow  it will he use(f in the
Case of' Nliloti-Lezhla section. 'T'he seclioll silotil(d also descrihoe tle ptrocedluital plrocess of
Publi e ,car-ings at lihe local couacil, Cotplltsalticn lorovided itS i(licineLdl by MrA':hip  Guri.
SiltC ViSiLS atICl tI  ci:SionS Willt IIhC (GRI) ellgilLcrS Ihave USlttiti S l IhIdtat llelrc aie 11o major
3iiueS of reselllemitelit (nto houses tuCed lh bCletdiolishied) ill (lic proposed piloject.
2.       Desc,-jbe J/Ie nlle!-nagl/iies pJy)oposed aIII( the alic timeJnt selecitedfor Aildti-Lcz-fti aIS
dewcribe(i lby Mr. lziok flishaliti, DIcsign I-nginineer, dmt ihl   or s ilse visit on Fe) 2).  Tlhis
*tClin stioll(i dlessvri'!   tile tlii'f'i-eiit atIcrilalives conIsidIeried alld disctiss [lte adva.liages ol'
bt aliglllnit selecte(d  since it avoidIs residential areas alit  rese llellent t issues. 'I'lie sectiotn
86   11 (detail [lie euvirominnntal  bneitfi(s of   bypassing popu)ilated aieais, lhereby lowerigtg of
aisih risks (i1e to ; ilr all(l waler polhlutioon, imipr'oventeit   ill road siffely.
_ -T'e1lai`;c',11Y idenler y the ex1pectedl impr aits ordl Pi/e prowposedl Iiilig(iipitP   mea utsarevs
ft   prepare  it eI(jgtiaJ l   me!atina  11tii  itioell ad(ll ltollilowill pl)iol. ''lle p)ossib)le inilmc'(ls
4k1CtlallEl la};tiol) 11   aue "a.8 il-e   Ilcid1e ll   II{E;I^



I,mp)ci((s: TIl,  Ill()l4)SCd plIrolect Crosses agriicilllnlal I;lldll ill sollic areas a,,d  impacts Could,
iludllie soil et(osioli, unstable slopes duItlo road cIItilliigs or emblnikmenits, side-ippijip g of
spoil iiaerial wlichl cotIll(I encroach oil adjoilliniig agrictilillral 1;landl and soil Colitalmnali'tol)
tue to road ruimolIS (ex; for approx  l(0,000 vehlic les/day upl) it) 128.6 p)pmm  01 lfald COu1l be
(lisc;arge(Il with iin IOi fromii the road fromt Iraflfic, wvhreras ilic tolerance ii!idit Itbr pli;Jis is
k:is 1i1liaf-O. I ppmfi.)
Mfitigafiofl. Planidg frees in the cleared areas and SIOIcS is the most efficintm- way o01
stalji iizing soil and preventhig soil crosion. Store and reuSe top soil wliici  is anl important
resource to lised ialer oil the sloiles lo grow  grass adtl lt-ceS. Proi)er Comtlp,aConl 01   soil an!
inexpenisive m1elthods suichi as use of rilrap andit grass it) stabil ize slopes. Plroper dst-igin of
dirains and setlenimt basimis tO catcll 1 ollute,d waicr before it reaches critical areas sLicit as
water bodies andl( agricic  Itiial land.
WAi'li,lR
himacts: As the roadl passes over two r-ivers, thelrce is [lie possib iiily o lpolitLing both tile
Mat andl Driii rivers. Ior examl)le ilic polluLtanit loads iii road runoffIs for approx  10,000
vehicles per dlay correspond to 8() to  120 gins/kni/day ofb lead, '10 ginis/kin/dlay Of Zillc alld
uIlust of 150 kg/kmn/day). If the water is nlot properly (Ira ine(d tley coultd contaminate the
adjoiiniig agricitlural lantds. The chances of groundwater pollution is also relatively highI.
Sile visils liavc shown tliat in Illost cases the irrigadimi channels are very close to tle road
alnId leahiig to coniamiumation fromn roa(l runofls. Fut ierml lore roadl cons(rtrction are likely
1t clalnlge cxislinig water cIrainiage patterns - cauisinig I'loo(linig, or walter stagni.atioll.
Alitigjjtiollj   Desivil of close(l (Iraillage systettus 10(r tic blridges lto prevent runoll polluliug
t1he Mat and lirijn rivers. ( LnginieerriLg drawings prescile(i  by IiC ICI' (lo  not shIow  any
'haml;s for tlie bri(les) . I1'Ie riut of1p  0l o 1S(I be preferabuly COIIICCIed ill i fifilirail 'io  (IHICICS
(amolmlomi cal aniud I high ly effectivc) otl eit her si(le  tf tIie bridges lo reduce  low  ol poll ulaants
i1110 wat,er hodl  jmll(l iajoinlilng at lrici lfitu-al liand. Oilt ir ncwtsails s ilcltu(ld  Waler sseped
r[ict ifi,,  N%Il rciures Stuil as grasses, 'Lishies, rip rilp. C rluss  .ii rai.ge  dlesi, II ill tie  ea;se of
d&aalgC  iii tigi,~l ll(water drainage palierns slojimi tah  illl) ;w-tcunin  hydr! diical  data and
waier now  ilatlerns lar the p)rop)oscil plro(ject Iftte
AIR Qlb\l .  y
IUuvr-c Tl e 11   ltir o l tl   avo:(ls p)opjlillaItcd   ras di1  lti .AC illlJ)iittS 1t air  {ithulliAld wAill he
lNImIc * 110wever lie roa(l (toes p          ClOs clo.c     l-ex, fill-ill liouises alld    a villar e SchOOl (ait
d"0) hc  ich i rav  !oCale(d closer t han 50 unieteis iraiim  i1tw  ilgiway. Use ol I f([eel gasol ille
l    the ,restilling e liiss ions tlhroug; aeisols ill c very Iiarnii dll it) heallh i anti are k iiowii cause
O'll"c-t  (lilSol dcers aiiuonig cliiliu(lell. ()tlier 11armiullt  l)ollitilallis ciii tteli include-car-holl
tOj dCt  i∞Milelt  coinhli;1 ion, snilltiln  diox Ie        ll lhiglh suillfil diesel ImlttIs.



'iligalion:  Vlcasilies shloil(d target hotlli sie specific andt     i picsy issules at hlic  ai;i litial level
to coltrol air pollutlio  ill [lie hiighway sector. Sfite speiccific measures imcliitlC (Isilitg
vegetation sercenis Io filter TSPs a,ltlu dIuist from  I lil ioad traffYic. '[lie provisiol or an1
1ii1dlerpass close 1o ilie School as per the (lesigil d-awn iigs is a goo(l im iligation imieasurc.
policy measures3 include (Ise of low  still'tir iiuels, retliae lead content in Iti hls, velaicle
elmrission cnt'lrol and traff-ic 111illnigement. F lurthiermtnoe, dl%ining1 conIStriUoC01,  eli o 10Caition Of
(Itaarries anid aspiftl tplantc SliOtil(l be away froIII residlenial Iareas. Inclusion   C(Idust
rediac-ticiii measures in asphalt plamls and qIiuar ries such ais bag lhouses, mechanical cyclonles,
etc.
IlN ORA ANI) FAUNA
Impactfs:         The roadls genicrally pass iltrouighi agricultlural land(I ani(l the impacts on tIle
flora antd fauna. wi!ll not 1e as severc as passing throutgh vit-gii foi-ests. NeverthelessE, slhe
lack of kinowledIge of Ille existinig flora and(l fatina in Ilic areit may contributc to possible
negative impacts onl somiie rare species. Flurtlhermnore ilhe construction activity aiail storage or
imiaterials  iid thie construction of access roat's couldhl t)e allect tlie flora and l-aemi  in ilic
adjoiniing areas. For example: whiemi Itle roadl cuLs through sonieC natural hmabitat as proposed
in ilhe realignment of hlie Elbasomi -PIrocadaz (close to Xbr:ika), it coul(l in1pact flora aid(l
fauna dlestroyinig ilteir habitat and( isolall. wildl ire oni eillihe- sidle ofl the highlway. In Albania
thle creation of a new  lhigliway cotul(d also enllice n\ev dlwcllinigs or eveni whole villages lo
illove closer to tile ioadl, placinig I'artlimcu pressuire oii natural habitats.
Alitigatiorn:    A  rapid assessimenut ol ihe flora amid tlimina in tlie area sliouti l)C cai- lie(l out to
evaluaie thle miieasuires niecessary tok prevent. any permanent damage to tlie area.  Mlitigation
milcasuices inllchidle plainuing of'screeuis and buslies  0 it) ploVie protcintio  iromi poll u talns ill
.adjacent areits to road constr!icdion. Prov id inig safa ii aiml lrossii   (provision o!
Ullu'erpiassts Connlleting  )otl sidtes of1 Ihe roads,  lVic iwi i  Inl sen:;itive areas to pi evntm
3iliilnls crlossin,g tlhe highways). Irlhmwt erniort laws it l)Cevtl ii(lildee(l I developmnent
(ro(adsidie dlevelopuaemt  ol' I)tisiless, conmmaercial amid ricsiduiial buildings)or tiic
"si;l"lisblseil'i  of n c1earance zoi(t  close lo hiigliways.
NolSIj, V~OLJUTION
Iil/)(Is:        As ailie l)ropose(l r1oadi1 (iCes rllt), lpiss I lloliill p)op)1 iLt(l areas, I lic extllt ol
fOISC) ot llifioll wili be li ittetl to Itcw  fa-rmil holluses aild a village scilool ill  lilot wilicili are
Ck'er 1lu, 50 mercift 1s frOi llth  axis of tS hllie higlway. 'Ite lnois: 1)rmailli y geniratel 1roill a
r"illy tusy hiighiway (I    ilig tile day ( iii- cl ii a  7500)/vehlices/day) is i  I .lie order  1 (is6  to
d' c ilbes 4111(A). Ioise polliuion ovecr 55 (11)(A) is (isi-i jiv  Ie. Hlie few  l'irill lit)uscs aiI
kl1t)|} wilcilh 11*C luss  hlian 50 meters [mo tl0   : Iligh 11hW;vly 4:0Lilud bLe SlaIhjetwA.lA     o Ikoise
Mlm4111 in   tlhe tu!-c. 'h'lie (Iiarries aind citislier,s dilmlminig (fli Co)liiliictioni l l;l5se could illso
c"SOrc  ol nOise  1loIltionl il luca ted close ito resic Ic iia alI  mi'S,
,,li rkjsj*      Miligplionll mllcasrels cotid(h ld b   ie   ill l)ii\  lcist design and  umailmlteliamce otf
*Iil ch  .si lISilig g'.aded atslhilll amid  ivoidaniice ()I SillI.-Icc diiessijg (Ilst  (tl solIiisiVe



areans.  Odlcr IlllisreS iacliiuldt. the (file c lintiric   ol iiihatik neiis/b;ii        aiitl illullds lo
stlpress  (Ile floiu.1 poalillioll cosre  lt iouses ai1d Schiooli. 'T'hle b):a riers Colil he cotnisirliclcd
ill liltud, wlodl oir so!lid conlcrCle. t.l3 vatil oi ollie roa  C*losC tO tIei villa,-g sc!ool will
restrict llle noise polluifoil. Probably hIle prioosled( llltigilaion  iLeas'ure lC       r ihe Milot- Lczila
siue slhotilil lie a coi iiliinatioll Of 1omod barriers atd rcsiricited d     pearl s  cSsuc    -i5s slrii-iis and
trees. T'lle  arritels arc geitem-ally nIecdL to be lOetweeil 2 to 4 Illeters lhigih.
LAND ACQUISITION ANI) ld.SE3IPI'LEMNT
Impacts:         'l'herz will be no instanccs of' dleslriciiillo (it dwellings, blusilless or any
mlajor reselitlenicent involved in Ilte proposed pro.ject. 'I'1w roads inostly pass thrl-onll
agricultuarl lanids wliich do iiot seCmII to be iiid(ler aclive cultivation. Findiherinore tlie
Albian iiil Government is ill the process of drafting legislation on Cxpropriation of land and
fair compenlsatiolln. Ilhougil the land will be exproprialed for public projets witli
conrenpCsaliollt, inveriltcless Iliese actions cauise social dlisruip)tioiI ani  economic loss for the
a;iectedI filmilies and(l commu'nities. In addilion lo eco          micini  imipets tlhere inaybe social and
psychological cosis associaled witli [lie expropriatioll of property. ( I lowever, dIriog
dliscussionls witli 1:.il miirs close to NIilot, tlhey seceml  toW be atw.are of the pro ect illanl
SlippoftiVe of" 1 oad p)rojeCt wlich they fccl wvill contribull  to their well beinig ai;oi provide
mlicirn wiih better Umsiness oppoettinifies to sell thiri piruhic.c.
Aliiiftaiun:    Describe the cuirreit. setinilg - the goverliuniL  establ ishini ig l)privae ownership)
of land, zem. Describe ilhe recent exp)rop)riation law  huhiig deve ki)td in Albania includ in ig
'1e p)roposed comipeilsation imieasurCs being cons idericd. I lirthlierilrore, describle IIlC
consultationi process as described by Mr. Vehig Guri - discuissions withi local couihzi6  onl
tlhe prolmsed roFirtes, etc. Mitigmitll tneasuric normnal ly consist of consultation will,  aleelted
people belore tihe aliernatives are selectied , declSiOUIS Io'n';llMid        ina iail l Ci    ca li n,
llccisionis o01  relcAbilitation or1 reeslalishltitig tlheir liv  ihonod.
/M/hif IS.. I )j'iiig;1 lo; ht tuisOrl'al atild Cuiltiuial Sites *llt' It-SSil)hIt dluililg 1iald iOlISll iltldll ailld
rclaited  w   s suichl as development ol' (Il.iirt'ics aidtl I   Clro%v pits. Roadh cois(tritetioll could
' ls datuape tile atheistic ot Cultural and archeological moilluiil)is.
Afinigt,jjr: Carry oLit hilvestigal ioll of iIIVCilWtorICs ot Cultimal and  i listoric.Id Si ics along witlh
bi)hihograp1j1ic searclies lo clleck  lorl. possible iiplIaeis oI illi' prOpsed iollic ol  litlilr;al and
hiuric;i 11Il llil mlis. 'tl is chleCk should tie donIe ill e  Ose collall oraliull wii Ile IlinMiist ry
Off Ciitirc  it, tile  (ad does ),ass close to e) i nra I anld Ilisl(r ic;al   ollilltenits thenl tlie
Ct  urAtu41g  -igeaicies s   ldt) be made awall-e of, saFely prezclilio,s  to he takeni wilIl regards
- Pgoper (diNclosiire and protectioni of siles and artilclais. (ooperaliomi witli(lie te Nliinisiry of
ciatturt and(' CrIntllittee for lEnviromuilcnl;ll Plreservatioll and Iltolerliioll will blice nded.
ROAD SAFi,'py



lipt!) W21s:     'I'Trafiic lIns riseii imiore than Ieit I'en ldl in Abllaida over tliC last l'ive years at(d
witli it Ilhe poleni iil ior traffic accidemts witicli will liccone a maJor pluhlit; Ihealill problem
for [lie country. Newv roadis will lhellp in redtiucing acclcid ts, but incrcase in speeCds  resiltls
ini imore fatalities. i.stimliate tIhe existing number of tra(fic accidlenits per 100,000 velhicles
wii ilie lelp otl hcspilal aIl(l police records.. In addilion to road uiser saflety, consiriictior
workers al site are also at hlie risk of accidents,
Aliiigaliotn:    Analysis of traffic accidents is esseni iIi 1for   tih  dVelt))linvCit of illitigation
icastires. Ilnforniatioio  on tlhe nluLmher of death , inljUl'ics, localiotn of the accidenls are tIse(I
lo ideniffy roa   black spots ,vwhere lilysictal road safely ipij)roveilenis wiii liave itiaxiniti in
il-lhact ill re(lducintg tlie tutitber ol accidlents. NIlitigati dl Inlilasitres locatlly iti  tide  rtiaffid
signs, markintgs, proper interseclioI lIayot, preset e olfrol ro ad  iriers sulchil as frees, poles,
walls. P'olicy iSSUtS stcli as speed limits, and vehlicle i SIieutiois  colntribile tO uC(ltuctiol ill
;raffic ;ccide, Its. (IDiscuss (ie prol)ose(l grmuiti to an i FllJ     11r  d aid sailf'cy). Ill addit ioin
measures to p)romole worker sal'ety in tlhe road consirticliot needs to be adtressed. SaCety
neasut-cs ilict tiding wearinig of lficineus, sigmis to redli ic- sped iii wor-ker areas, eic.
4.      Dcxsciibe thle frainiBllg lteedlv necessmy to eshiblish cpwlaity within ilte Alimisy of
On:t..11irict601 o-!4 'Toulris11 ito Imiiplemenit i(te Illigtigllion litwdI molittol- t/he itcidgoffioIa
mieasles ilenatijied /Ithorrght the Fuu i'iriiinmiienfu, I lif         %S'cvsmeIt. For exampl )e: lle 'l'A
fittticed  indler thte lproject will assist iii (developling a it aclionl plall to b)u ild sul SticiCit
caplabailities within (RD). A smnall unit could  be establishied wivitiin GR[)  to address
environimtenital issues {to- all roa(t projects. ' un tnit shotlId tic tr.ti ned in civir(oinientiill
management, p)r-para lion ol iAAs, iloniitoriiig of ci viroimeninal in itfigallin' measuires, etc.
5.      Ileni.ify thie  igemcy which shoull moniriw the pJy))Jposedl miiiigutionII  mliLuiSulsem
wi'/ich uI/so shoutitl iucll(le dletiinBiyg of responsibilitie.s. In Ithe ittitial l)i .ptss wlIcii lipntciiy
is htilig hil lt wihiiiii tihe General RO S(ls DireCttOlae, illVO)Vilng tlhe I)Cir1ct1om.ie of
JIV;IiOItiiiIC it wllilt [lie Minlisit-y of l itith1 couild be parove bielleficil.
6         .Cost (lie  Oiuiigatton invCaisuires plopu.sedI in chuding the Costs whini'hi   ciuld be
JflCrtIIu jfJi,j slt;peu ltision,lnonitorinXg and fritiniIg. The'lcre ti.s iltreldy been Soi  cstoming
I l'C ill thle sttimly ailready sumin it ted. F'or exailie tlhe costiln   br lpl apiliang ol Sctelils,
fencilng ill SellSiliv,,, areas, close(l (I  ini;lge  or bor hridges, somdl hitrriers, etc. thie costs ot
6uI;ll( i  Ci)fltl)eCIPtimon for exprol)priatlioln o1 land. I'IIsC costt s .;lioSildl be hletrna l izcnl as part
Itz tiIC ovtrall proijct costs.
7.      8111S1i1itmize (lie mitigatlan ineasmres th/ltough .e    u l u i'imonnienl Alitiotio wi dll
Plan as showp/ Mlont':



lImpacts      M it igat ion     Desigin land          Mvonitoring          M iigation
liplieimenting       Agency              Cos,;
Ageiicy
Soil Erosioni
Water
Pollultio&n
Air
I'ollition
Flora and
rauna
Noise
IPollutioln
Land
Acquisition  _                        .__                                               |
Damape to
Cultural
I leritage
Trat'hic anid
Worker
M~ciden_ ___



A  1 I I N  EIJX     91 1
Liw  No. 76i44 (IdIaC(I 21  .Jam ':II; i y  1993
IIulviroliiiiICIItaI 1P1ro ( ici(oJII



No,.*f6fi4, tl;,l,   1. 1.19'v'1
1FOR1  leTI \' I ltONi'X SFN'1' 11t '1'UYl  "1'1(JN
BIased o   article 1l  of liav no. 7491, date  21 .4.199/ 'tFor milaini ConISIittidmiaiii
provisioils', proposedl by [ho Ct,,,,,cil of Mihisters,
PARLIjAN11F'N'I' Ol1i 'Fil1E'
ItIl'ILJ1l1,1C  OF A1IJIANIA
1) E C     1) E D):
ClltAl'lrJ't I
GEINERIAL, CLAUiSEr,!
A. it le I
Civirmlinle'lilal Prolectiuul Coll)SliltIts iiecessaiy C          midit iolks for tile developllent, of
file sociely, a prioriy of lI i:ional eOwcrn, (lie maii  sirategic clenlents of wlichel are:
preventil?g ani rCell!cing (lie pollution of water, a ir, land aii(1 any oilier kinid of pillutiin;
colnservinig Ithe biological dliveCsity spcCific to Allbmia; maimhing iln a ratioial tvay natural
rescurces and avoiding thieir ovet exploitation; ceological restoration of areas dlamilagedt by
pCople activiiies o- lminlural (IcSlrmiczive t)flenomena: prescrving Ilhe ecological balance and
improving, tle li!:- quality.
AtI-ficle 2
F or purposes of ll is iaAv ihe fillowingl Icrimis aro ilcfilnedl:
a.)  "l"inviro-oliluielit    caillms all the naltiial an ini(IIm ani ciclemies aii(l l'Sac((os, ill tlicir
action ii  :Z   i jlk,l; t:itol.
Chluincn;sc   phIeilloInel%a ai, Ialml t)i pro cs are repitoseiIed   y 1 vwater, air, lind it ai,
\Midlc,ruii(lod, sl;h!' radiatlionI, vegelable, and amimial tirgainSuiS  iis weH! as nil mI immi'al
∞o(Scess^S a. (l 1iid t'Oli ltieii   tc;ierae'd h y  hitjr ilacralioll oand %vliicll a f'cct life.
'iimlall ftators 'Ire relmcsellitel by hmunmati sot:ict  ain( its economiical il lai sociO:
activily.
hi)   Fiilviltmlimint-I  prolect ion" meIIanIs thme auclivily for prevenlinig (dcgralatiOti, for
recel4.alinag,  ales.'rVilleg anid illiprovilnig thc cliviIlOuliIielCit
!   I IlviromilIcaimnl polill ion  in a teaits tile chiaogeo ,1 HIc h     invironmient quality as a
'cs,tlt Of c,, a.  Ceatioui and inisert inn ., physical, chem iimical  or Idolog ical haivors of tOw  nalt u,A
or humlanl reS(irJc:5s, iiisi(lc or otaiiid   I   t.lt)li c ilry.
nlxiv'il(lie cillal damage' imi s all    kdulS ioliitiol (o tlie physical, che-mical mlnd
Strliictti d laij*tl     ol aa natural t osysiuill, I(tlulc li3o  (0,11 hi) 'ill it 'al activity auid(l diversily of
iatii,11 ;ar]nd Ilii,iil ecmsy.sle-li, ulestrtult limi4  ofeclColgicl1 lhalalnle andi lila' ({Ilalily calsCd
76ve   ii Z1,8 I,,                                                               Iret t   - ~ i  7, ,*1ha,l,;. ILmv Reott')t



3iu1ilid,l  by  vwaler, air or soil p)ollitLionl or cltaslroplfie!.
if)  "D)anti.uls sithsliances.  liCiueas tlio.sC Sioesubsianecs ivliosc prloductio , I iw1!Splort,
siorqLgc, uIsarc or e:miiission 11 ei:viroicilment, ns a rc.mill of IllCir itialily, (kliliil;p ol 01 av
daIliagn   IIanillall licalllli, cllvir(olliilCflal (paiiilicsf, 11001w 1 htiiiii, Ihioccfloses or liClop)s.
dli)   0l)an   erouls wvastes  nicallis illose cilosive, ILoic, cxcimallf, exl)losive,
iiiflavinabdle cancerogenlic and tadioactive  slll)SlincCes su;ible to cauise ilic cIangc or flhe
crcalio'i of anollhie  subslancce, havc tlie qtmilty of acceletitfing burns, harming file natural
state of waler, laii(i or air by dlamaging liuiiiants or oliher livinig Ibeings   Ill ile maitral
ctllvronmniciit. -'
e)  'llndiivitlutals or legal cilities' ml1ean1s cClIf)lisCS, illStil.utions, cothpallies,
orgaizaltiomm auid iil(lividlu.als, Albaniani or foreigi, stmae or private tihat carry out
productioin, coilstrilcioll, service .cICiVitiCs or aniy oilier autivily of econtonmic or social
nature that may callse p)ollutlioll or (lalla;gLVe to  ilhe Cliv iuOtilent.
Ailicle 3
The ellYiroJulnelntal protection rrlOuil Pollutioin and dama111tge I)y gaseolus, Itliutl, solidl
or radtioact3ve substances and dangerous wasles gencratc(l or (lischiarge(d tjy indusidal plants
alid ic(litsirll, agricuiltlural, public, irac(l, social, citiiilal, military or tramsport activities
tilat infriore on ecological ail(l  Iat-iral systcnils bamI;IIeC, famiage liialerlal blessing3 or
cuiltural ahl(l lhistoric;al values, is am  obligation for all slate imituseutions and(I inilivi(diuals or
legal en&iiics, Albaniaii or foreigii.
Article 4
lEivviroutiuelual p)rotection friom  pollutioni awl  (Liiiage iniclutles proteclitlg water and
landS ccom yslcias,   i amosphere and(l nattire.
!Dectailed ridet s Iotr protect i ;g %valer, air, land aind InI;eIIC arc (defirn(e  by spccitic
legislation.
ArtIcle 5
It Is prolibited to Imiport flangiigcmis stiuslances or vaste in the ltRleiublic o( iAlb-aniia
lor Storilng, p Nrecuvitnlg Or delstroyinlg.
'Traiisil Iransiporl of (lailngel  ols si el,slantCS o01   asic tiroligh (lie tlc      ilory hInd
e.riri'lol  lain I w valcms of hIle Repuld ii: oi A lban i is ,pc,  mil-ed omily if it is eslabliishidl by .111
illicrnatimi)li1  ,agreeieiemit or trealy to which ilic Repl mblic  l A lbania is a p)aity.  It suicil
UMCs(s, lthe Comincii of' MinislruSs Ih" 1lie antilh h ily ti ivs,tc a lictiteSC lor llransil tranusp)ort
lbascel oni security riulcs (leineil by lliv C'on   il ol' Miiiisieirs itself.
Artile 6
'I ; 1Rel)public of All-aniia imleiciieis tlhe priciles aind rlcgilaltionis ol( initeriiadoioal
WL,veldioiaS aid(l IlLealics o11 tlie ciivilollllieil Io xvfiicli it is a juty.  Inl cascs xhll (it,e
tCI)ujllic uh' Afhalla k it is 11ot a paLlry, it will retco)niita itlkl ((5      l iec     gencrally acceptdc
lnrinciples aod rCgimlatiaiIS of i1iteiiilutioiial lilhis oil cliviloInIeIt.
1(1,l fft) 7664, :inianlimenI                           -2-                         1ithi AIbruuiii: Laiv RepRIl 



A/M I Vit Ifl
FENVIRONNIEN'A    Ir.     I                A ", ;sN1IlN'I'
AtI-Icle 7
All acdiviies (of iidividiials or iegal cilities, AMliiiani  or for-eigin, wiho exercise tleir
acLtivi!y in tlhe tcrritory of ilic Republic of'Albania, *IIc stitbjct to elilVroII1icne lal iilan ct
assessnliciiis.
tilviltotitlilleill iupa(t iSt.assessmieints is requLirC(l to 1ie utle for tile followilng itemns:
a)  Natioulal or aocal progr)aliS lot- Ierritory siltrctrtilig and urban plans dcvelopmuent
as %ved es ilheir  iliatlges.
1h)  I'roL:rnuuus anld neliv'ilics whlichl cffccs (cttviltOnhuient or wlhicit are j)art!t:uIarIy
dangrcous to hlumani lhealthl
c)  Plrogi nmts for recoiiS lirLtC0u  alllI eillargcelllut of activilics established by ilhen
"1' of i(his aricslt.
Y)  ProI gra miS and local actlivilit s defincd by local 1oVClrmilhiCIt imlstitutios.
Airticle 9
TIle Colltillitlce of [Elivirotlliltliltl Prescrvaliotll  alu 11( Iolcction, ils local ngelicies 811(1
(llArict, mununicipality or coi;immIIUic coit  cils accord ing lo I he relevanit territorial  nitiis lhave
tlkC Putiority to reciuiire enuvirounmental iimipiaCt asSessinCeius accordluing to  IIis law.
Abo(1ve mentioned iisti(IIuiotis haVe alSO tile authority to assignl experts o0 ihLStitltiolnS
tIiut will Calry otUt t111e CIiroui'u1u tAl impact. assCssnIuCuIu. 'I Ii             nli jistcr of I ICalill atnd
ElluvirolinetUMal  Sl'uoectioI) CesIaIIk;SIIC  r titles ior coI llwma ing tlese experts or ihlmitutions for
l iit ir kI)
I'llie COtlimil lmeC of I 'liVitl-olllCilal PI'rotectionI .1tl PSrCservationI has l te; authIority to
(ICItiIe programls alld activities accS ( ding l o iUtICis ',I', '" atid "C" of article 81 oU  IIIIs lav,
WVIIIchI  repiiiuie enviroinnuelnal Impact  9sSessiuCIIts.    Ce htairmtan of t(le Coimlmitiee of
Eumviwnnital hreservation and P}roiectioII lias the *tuthority to or(lCr a peCrio(ically
reasses,itmenut of prograJbus aild activitics, but litm lcss 1 .!ll tlivtie ill five years.
T1hIe COrt mt itiCe of lHitviromciIIcIlal Pro(ict ioll alld IP'servatiol ulay recliqire Iti local
90gtv iuer gen  instittimdons, wiacit it jidgcs uiCCeCssary, Ilo perfitit aut111  elivirolllitllial ililt)(l
asessmiteat f.r programs att(l local activities,
Artlicle 11
'Ilte  NIiiiscr OF l leo ltlr alltu  l.Viuvit oucitiaI taro I1uttiIon cs! ahlishiCs ruuCs anld
lf)r0fc(inl us of CI rillilro tiLnt;  ilmlpluct ;IiSiCSSiItcultS of activity Of ill(liViuilal(s or legal ettifi!s,
1Ii,,, : 7(J, -7644, I.oul '3                                                      it Ihe JManIa lIIIv i'-q)0t"f



bascd oi0l a )r)opsal of tihc (Comilmliilee of I.invironimeuial l'rotclioni anidi in co-oprcation
with relevant min istries andl ol her c*elwitril iillstititiotis.
At tlide 12
Contecilctl ilnd ividltIs ort legal (dtliliCs have thic right to participalc in the Imeetinig
for dcleristi iniig results of envirojimiemilal imnpact assessinicilts.
l licy miist bc ilIforiltc(l by nalional or lornl 111;ss1 meia or otlhci appropriate mieanis,
about (ic ipu"JCtlnrcf toe lIC  nvilominental imipaCt asscssment, llot later tliani one iontl
before tlec assessnlenit begins.
Ai-liclc 13
HiMviroii".lielal inhi)act ;tssCssit'icitt lluist be perforimied by experis or institutions,
Albanian or roreign of relevant fields, vilto:
a) ArlC specialists.
1i) Are indelcj,Cdedt alill have iio coinlractmual bonds wiit il ie progoini's iNivestors andl
operators aiid are not inivolve(d withi sucih activitics.
c) Givc concilisiolis in accordalice witlit dleicrititiied environimlenital impact
assessmenit procedlmle and admnissilde regulations andl standards for environmuellti! pollution1.
Atlicle 14
individuals or legal eintilics and authors of projects (iclitedl by article 8 of this law,
arc obliged to subiit idocutimiciis for beginning ani cniviro eiitiejital implact assessinent, whiici
conllain tlhe followilng informlation:
a) A descriplion of tlie programi and activity, as well as the location and size.
b) A description of cxistill, enlvironmleinral coII(ditiOts in relationt to the project or
activityr prior to its iniiplemneitiadmit.
c) A progniosis of (lie project's imitpact on the ciivironinnet.
r) A (lcscriltlioll of icnasurcs  laken to p)reventt or stol) a(lvcrse cfccts on
ctivi-rot  tc lit.
tl) Indlividiials or Iceal cititiics wiho caum be affecctedI by environimienital poliutioni or
(tlahtagc.
(ill) DJefinitions.
c) Oilier (cItcumiei3 tiat arc required by tihe Cotititiitce of Environimentai
Vrl'rcdoisll.
Article 15
1T '1    o <1lizeid i.C tiltilt ion ma.'cmdillg to IItis law, based ott experts coiiClcISiOIIS,
Mak-es dcis ois !or Ilte elivirolitit(1c1al impnacl tassessillelit, taking tlic following iiicasuires:
a) Fuill ol  altlial close, slop or intezicil)tio!l of tie activity of individumals or. legal
C11it ics . a ti applicatioln of' iojecis, whleni (lie impipact oi iiltc cinvironniienit is negative.
u t) Itl  ruciu ioml of tew asscssimm procedure if tlle project hias not a negative ilmIp)act
Dli 11e clviiourricut
ldfVIt"   7(4 * Ft6-iv)r,., e                   -                         7te A ljitt Laws' hspo;tt



Ilic appiopriate instillitlll ififoriuls albout takers clecisioais  coticc-iie(d parties aiid,
accordiaig to ilic case, provides ilnForlationatj    to (lie public.
Article 1(
Asscssm2i;It cx.IcCiscs, wwiCI Ilic, civiromimnieiial imipact is negativc, miltst be paidl by
individ'lals or 'cgal r;itities, whio are  espoitsiblc for llte Cuuviroimi;Clltal pollution wild
damiage.   ihe order isuetic(l by   w, aUtillioljizc(I iIistitmitionl for paymenit of assessilcilt expenises
is an execlitive order.
ClAIAPER III
:,11 'INXIl.' IS b,IJI,l) lit lit A\  'Ii 1lI I' 111    '1I IA,'I' AFI"ECI,' JN' IC\IL()NIVllEN'I'
A,ivile 1'1
lIndividuals Oi- legal eCI iiwiCS, who carry Ollt ecOlnoinic 01- social actiyite.s Iliat iinpact
or miay impact o(N  ilc Ctlvir(imetilII. a;lt  re(qiiiiC(l to apllpy lor a licenise issued by apinropriate
inistitttionis, (dcille(d by tl;is laiv.
AutiCe III
S1;-ii licc;ises Illust bc issmC'd fo'r he followiinig eCoIIomilic ad social activities:
a)  Ildi ug a81(1 usingl vwious ftacilhiics of national amid local ilinelest.
Li) iNation;al a81(1 local pirogIamils and(1 city plaiis for teruitoioy strulctiurinlg anld Urbati
developmcenit, as wel as tihcir chliages.
,'? lS611ildig roads, rail ways, harbors, ifl(lustrial activities, lhydro techlinical plants,
land1J reelaiulahion and programs for i itiproveerwnt ol superficial watercou;rscs.
g)  Lxxpioring, (devCIophirg aIId exploiting nalural resources.
(d)  l.hxploiling biological rcsoImIcCs iii waters intiidc(le( for fishlinlg, taking i;1 accout
species, SCasoII, ;iiea;;s a81(i a(li m issiI)le levels or fishiiig.
(111) lExploiting forests Ii al are of CoIIIIIoni iItIercst, creativg  forIest areas, IIUtinIg,
inki1ng 1i1i0 :ICccount zoucs, speciCes, se;sows, weapoits anid a(ldt)issible levels of lhttlulilig.
e)  IEIx ploit ing natural li'SmircC.S of liotna andl frii;;a in various zonies, as wlcl as sea
hu(;oln;.
6)  Creating uiew  l-irijii-wrec lpuiiatimis.
O  Producilig, sCiellin   oi. usill)g tloxic plrducts, as well  S t(hose that are, used for
Ph1ylosma;ilaria;u, agrictil  ral 811(d Iolrcslry pulll(ses.
g)  Im iporiting or exportidiig loxic substances ill, and transporting toxic stihslarices
ti;llouh lic I lerritory ol tile lt'l pild i(c ( ,f Alblainia.
gj)  l)cDtrermininig lihe iicithod of Iransptort and ilic place for stori ug, processhig and(
(1csiroyi;;g toxic si0stances or %vtslc.
11)  Ilmiporting or exporting plants atnd a;ninial that cani (lamage flora or fiIUlim.
i)  1The Com imiiticte    r Ivr Epvirotrimenlal  'rotection (detcrillinies
iller acliViiiCs    I at may have ani ill ipact o11 lie elvilonill-1net.
4l" 11  7661/,                                      -5- jlle AII,tir; IAIiIv flUpoil



Article 19
1 lic followivigi ns iliitilions lhave  lic anti ority to isstic environitiremial ficenses
accorilinrg to article IU of this law:
a)  'I'"he Council of M illislcls lor activitics estialishel by itleis "g' arid "gj" Of
article 18.
b) 'I'lic Corlruilittcc for I i'wvirolnlmenlal l'roclci ioni lor activities of nationial intercst
anid othier activitics established byt iteaiis "a' lo  tf" arid "h" of article 18.
c)  'Irle DJisirict, M1iunlicipallily or Comintine Comicil for activities of local interest
established lby ienis "a" to "c", "", ard(l "dlI, of article 18.
(i) 'I'lle Comtlmiltce f(;r lblVirml  iinental lProlectioni dlefirics autlioritics accor(ii jg to
itcii "'i" of arl icle 18.
ArtIicle 20
Ani crivironitnental liccnisc is issued witli tlie request of ani individtial or legal enitity,
based ott thic technical documeintationi anid analysis of tlie impact oni the environment
sujbmiitte(d by tilc colilceriie(l person.  'I'lIe liceinse IIIust be givenl wilitin ithrce inoihlis front
the day whicni (lie apl)lication is stirrmittC(l arid is validi weICII (lie activity beghimis intil
circumstances, according to wlhicli ilhc licentse is issuied, will clhange.
Authliorized institutionis mrtay postonC  hic period of time of givinig a licenise ulp lo six
ioutihlis, wiheil coniditiois established by tlIC first paragraph of tIis article, are riot satisfied.
'I'llese instituitionis arc obliged to give ani answer witlint six muonitlis, ohlierwise (lie licenise is
conisidere(d aloptovLed.
An  mivironmeirtal liceiise *vill lhe mla(le invalid unlless the activity l)egins withlinl onie
year from  the rinle that tire liceiise is given. If this schedule is riot complied with, a niew
license cair be reqnncstcdl.
Article 21
Aiitliorizc(l inistittioioiis that have issidc(l an civirornitncniial licetise niray review  or
rcvoke tlJc licerisc if niew  arti umkllnown ecological elemews appear at tllc time of issuing tllc
lieciise, or if niew  legal acts for tIre CeiviirorrlICrrt will l)c approved.  For reviewing o∞r
revokinig a licensc, t(lc Conmirittee for lirvironimietal Protection, in coopCratdon witl
iiiiilistries al(l otlier central iristittil ionis, conisi(leriing  irie  aituric of the activity, defiiies
dcadli.res, wilririn  wviichl above meritionc(l condilions f-or isstuillg a licenise must bc satisficdl.
Art icle 22
'lire (Conlmcil of Niinisicis lwS tltl anirtirorily to revokc a liccise for  imnporlarnt
activities i hat lrave a spccial inm rpact on ('loiev ironmirent, bascd oII tire p)rop)osal of Iic Miniiister
of Hlcalth arrdl t:nivirorlonmcntal 1,1itetliorml.
'I'lrc Ni iister of I lell tiranid I rivilro inmmelltal Proic-cl ioni, in] cooperation wvitl 
miiisirics and otlier ceinital iinsit iicn ths,  Iias tlie autliority to (definie i inpomlalit activities tilat
have a special imlnpact o0  cliivirilrlirernt  'I ie Co'unu  cil of \ NIiristmers approveS suichl defLioilS.
T-vrov. i(,fi,4 1,  j;m,jt'; (                          -0-                        7hriA,tbtmanr L.iii' etp/itI



Aiulcle 23
'Ihle MinliStel of I le.at(hl adil I liVitiibimeital Prmtccon tdefinies resoras atid aiialyscs
of tlic imlipact oil ilic CliviroillmiCt thliat idii(viduals or legal cititics tiltist subvit for takitig an
cnvironiiewial licenise ad(l appliOVCS in(JCc(ltiidrs for issUiinlg sticII liceiiscs by ntitliorized
ilnstitutio ns.
Arlcicle 2'S
Amioii;cd i01s1 ittitioiis have  lIC aulthority tO close, stolp or interriupt totally or
partially economaic or social acivilies of indlivi(duals or legal eitities established by article
I18 of this law, wlicni they arc   -ic(l out wviihout aii eiivirno.ilniiental licenlse.
Individuals or legal elilitics Ihw- exis(inig aclivities that (lo inot satisfy conilditionls for
ant environmtiental licciise, accoloing  to ilis law, ate obhli,cd to satisfy nlec4essaiy cJ( litioIis
witliiln dCedl ines estabi ishicd by t lie (Commilllcc for hilviromiuiental (1rotcctioti, i'1
cooperationl witli niiinistrics adi oilier cellOial inistitiutionts.  F''xisting activities that dlo niot
satisfy cenl(lditions lor anl cnvii olileitnal  licenise witlinil cstaldish(I dicad Ii nes 11101 be closed,
stop)ped or inlemrrlnp(l totally oi' partiarily lby Ilic above tioemotionc(d inst itutions.
Article 2'
ludividuals or lcgal entil ics lpitivided witlh an ciiviroiiniicnital liceinse. have to piay a
scr/ice Icc set by tlhe Miillisler of I Icaltli and Fliilviicililal l'rolect.  Tlhoe licelise fee rlist
be paid inito (lic accounit of ilie itlitil ion tlat lias issue(d tlic liccllse.
Individlu.lls or legal entitics, who inivest for prolectilng tliC cviromimieit, dJo tot pay
the service 1fec. 'Ilie Coitinitittec 1()r I ilvirloiliintal PIro!cCtioii ill cooperation will
minis trics and oilier relevant ill.ns i mtioiis (tlelilles suich illvCstllmciits.
CiIAP11LT  IV
INSPE,'II()N O1F AND INFORMNIATION 't'OR TII E'1
ENVX'I  lRONMENTI'AL SIlI SI4TU T()N
Article 26
IlTle inspLc LtioI o  tih elnv iVniO inmeal siltationit comnists of revievilng tia'tmual avd
lililuanl elemilenits and factors ofthe envtirioino  nciit, observiag anid recortdiir cliaiges, as well
as reviewiniz somices aln(l catiscs of thwse chanlies.
D)at. colkccled throtigh the inspe'ctioni serve as a basis for information oni ilie
e!nvironnniellal situalioti, for revicwilig or revokinig eiivironniuenial licenses, aeid fCr taking
apparol)riate ueasures establ islid b1y lhiis law.
A ul icle 27
'[liv i iis )cetioll of tili  elivilronil i  ital siiatoll iS a (1lity oh 'cmp4loyee3 des igiiatCd by
thIC ti iiislct of' I feahll and lhIIviionwIii(Il  l'lPrf(ctiml, tlhe Coijiniltm e  for I3nvironmilltal
t {. 0.766,(                                      .:Zil>FtS - 1 7e I ..,-i,  1 Xfw



Priotectioni ai id ils local aftl('iis. l Illildt ries and othler cetiiral iinstitkitioins, and
(lisitict, niniicipality or Coiltliilliill^ colill(Jils.
'The inspection is Staldlill', '11141l ctililltis ill acc'olance witli the exicilt, sm;rces
alnId Callses of Cl1Vii(1lliiiill Pt'l p litn  l(1(ld           l.
Article' 211
'Tlhe  NI iiiistel of ll caili alltl 'livil l)liileit'll Pio(tct ioll aplprov'eS SprC'ific
enviroinmemiial cxicilt, arcas ol Cavil ion letit Illat must1si be inspected. 8a1(1 tIIC  PiiCtliO(liC of
exercising Ilic inspectiol!.
rtlicle 29
'[lie ;nspcctioll based oil SolliCC.s ;Ila(d caIuscs of cjiviioiiniiclial polltudion is exeicise(I
as lollows:
a)  Withi a legal act appioved by adiiIorized instmituions (ila! are esltablisled(  by
article 27 of ithis law.
Ii)  WVilit   a rc<llest of individlials, lepal Ctilitics o01 CitiZCilS tilat alc affected Ol- inmay
bc nffekleu  oy cnv:ronimnctal pioiltlioll all(l dlalmlage, as well as otlier organizations of al
cnviroitineiital niaturc.
Ai-rticle 30
EX1oeISCs ior ilisllctilig the ciIivii onimiental situation, wicin tile eivir-oniixeiilal
poltutioli and(1 damagc is verified, illSt be paid by thc responsible indiividutial or legal elitity
for (lie poliutliotn or daiiage.  'Ilhc ouder issuetld by (lic aliltllorized institution for tlie paynent
of cxpenscs for iislpcctinig is all excuItive order.
Ai-ticle 31
I lle appropriate la istittiioll , hased oit(l Ie inspection oni thc Cnviroiin nCIItal si(tiationl,
(leci(Ics, depemling oni tlhe case, to close, siuspied or interrulp  tolally or p;dLitlly activities
of inidividlua:ls or leal cntilies, who are ri-sponsible for theC t'iviroiimeroenal pollution or
(lamllage, and (dCl illes tite respec.five obtliatmiOlls to ilmlpiroVe tile Silllationi.
Article 32
'Ihlic inifornii:ition for tihe cml'iiolllllmliat.l  sitllatioll illnlm(ics tile Following  ilellis:
a)   l)aia  br Itle cOlulitiOlI ol CllV ltlilleiltal eltlilelits and factors.
b)  D )ala  br I esilIts of' actO  iill I hat cause *1 11n  y CtulSC plut ltotio  or datilnage lo
Clvirovioillell ti  id its chlCl-cii(s allnd factors.
c)  D)am  lfor pcrlormiied aclivilirs for protectilng lhe Clivirolilniert.
,c)   )aia for cond(hiit.is and( IISC O' biological al1d( miliecal resources.
''l lh  inforillatioll is accomlip; p iijd lby cxp)lalnlatiolus abollt Ilic possible adverse itilpact
of (ilayel d actioll oil thic eliv.i oI11eill aldllt lititiuta licahili, aldt lby recomimendadtitis for the
fllctIll(I of ac tillg. citi ncis ill the  vvI t (if c xpcfed aldlVersc effetcs.
I  i',u,,  (66.1, FE11-itnmn11' -i'                                                    77e ,ir,ilIhirma  tit,'R'pflott



,ticicle 33
'I'lic CoinIIII iuce for IliIVo;IOIIIIICulal Protec1t)ll alldl Its local agenlcies, iiiiiisirics aaicl
otlier ceniter instittitioiis, andt local govCrnimienit instiLutioits receive aned collect ifotrmation
for flie CnVirOImneiCIIlal sit ;icOI1, presIlte(I by Specialized iusituItionIs.
lodividui' ls or legal ei;hitics ame obligcd( to subiiii li e iiiforina(ioa  for Ilic quanitity
amid( qiuality of waste and subs(aiiccs fliat impact oni ciivironimnciit, withliin two wecks frouti thie
(late wlien  (lie rcefucst is reccive(l.  'I'lic ilnforinatlioii iiist be submiiitte(d to thle autliorized
iilstittutiol! and according to rules <ICI;IICed by lihe Miiiister of I caitli and Enivironmnctfal
Protcction.
Airticle 34
liistitlitioiis esiablished Ibv article 33 or this law  m11ust publish i;iformationi wihicih
containis daita oUl Iie clianigc of civiromniieiital situatioIn, tIhroughi 11aass m1etdia o0- ally otiher
iicnius, in a miaimncr hliat is acressible to ci(izedis.
Cotifi(lenitial inlfoirImiatioII (let iiiC(l ill sVecific provisions, 13 p)rSonllted in writil!g as a
summllary withiontl ille rigiht of dissCeimillationI.
A oicIe 35
linstitiztioiis establishcd by article 33 of thlis law, as well as individuals (rt legal
enitities, viiist iiltorimi people about iltc occurretd e;ivironmental adverse aiteration,
imminc(liatcly after observing t,polhitionI  md damage to t(ie czlviroaiiiienit, nmeasures takcii to
rc(lucc or liinO the pollutioni or damiae,nc, ad(l ite approprinte Ccoiduct of ciliztes coiicerinilig
leialiii protcctili and thlcir seCuir Py.
Article 36
111(lividlna Is o0  legal Cillit u s InuIst ifIIOIII buyers or1 ciisIhilers (dlurinlg I lie ltne or sale
or plerforminigr (lie scivicc, ill wrtiling or orally, ab4oiit danigerous com)poiienils ol goo(ds qtxd
scrv ices a(lYC aboIS Cir possCibc adversc ci ects and 111i mpmaCIS 011O Ile eliviro1111jirt all(l
(CH] IAP'lEIt V
I) E'l', AND) lIl(  T IS OF' ClE'I'ltRA, ANI) Ll OCAL
IN    T'I'I'TI ll   S trJ' ) FOR  iN  VTIt(()hlSNKINT'
A I iicle 37
''lIc Min iister of I le altlh a    1 mli VF oimOIiiWult l P'roCCt jUion hIplmewICInIS anl d(veloUIs thIC
(iovernmnent p'olicy il (tlic CeviromiWi m11al aIcara for Ilic pltpose of obtainimi. Ccoiioiiiic and
So(ial (dVelolpui:eill haraollied it, tIhe lc Cltvirolimnerital pi olectioll amid Wie ( Italily-
iainiteilanice and( impiiiiovemlit.lil .I lhe I 'omnice for- 1Eilvirt;uAmicital lhlrowictio;i im;tt
impii,lemicnt ithis policy.
L,, io. 7664., Fari,t,;am,ep,t                         -9-                         r-'i Ite  ,i,ia ttill' Repiol



Airticle 30
The Miniisier of I Icaili and I- lnvironmcental lProicctioni ihas tfie following nutfi,iritieg
i[lite civiroilileli al area;
a)  lhe Minister presents to (lie Govcri-iiueit (I,e stiralegy for protectilg the
environmitnciit, coor-diniate supcrvinsgig Untiictio,,s of niliniistries, otliei central aim(i local
governmllenlt insititutioins, an(d apiroves Illc particular cnvironmnental staiidards and activities
sutbject to inislpectioni.
b) '[lie Mi mister prepares annzuial report on1 (fic eviivrouiieiitcial sitlia.tioii and(1 presents
it to tihe Counlcil of Ministers.
'[lic Counlicil of Miniistcis ahier ieviewing tl e rep)ort. p)rc5senu1   (lic report to tile
Pauli ament for alpj)roval. 'Thc iepolt, after lhe ap)p)roval by (lie larliaineiut, imiust be
putblislied aIs an annual relort on the cnvirolimcutal situaticill.
C) 'hlle Minister plocCssCs ftle imaiii policies and(l dclioes, pricritics in .aivestmne:ts for
protectinig tli enlvirointenit in accor(l willt cconomnic and social devctopinc;it a8i(1
possibilities of Allbaniia.
iy) 'I'lTc Milister dlefilncs and (listrtibilteS h'lilldls 1or reicntit'f researtclh projects atid
study prog'anis for (lie puirpose ol taking important tincasturcs for protectinig the
cnviroumincnit, for uisin)g purely ecological  tcchiiologics, lor obtaining equilmicilt a!ld
tre.ining thle staff within and1( oulsiide Albanmia.
d)  [lie Nliimister represemts Albaniia ill ilternati bon   alfivi!es, .nt iegovcranileitall
organizationis for protecting the CflViivliIliO Ielt.
(iII)  Ilic  i i mister, ill coop erat ion will II itilistrics and( ol'hcr central ilnstilttionls,
aplj oves rcglllhttion s andi ihsti-m-f:iot    s 1t1  rcgistering spccially endangered areas and for
programs for 00al11 al enviromlicllawil wti'jtiveni tion.
A\4l011, 39
The Coiiitiiii c,e for IjnlVil(i4)m11lC.II  otlection is a specialized ceciatl  insioilolion in
the cnviroiiniietital area.   hlie    iiiistCr *if dilc 1 caldi almid  ilvlvironinieuital Prowccliolu
suipervises ilie CoIIIIlliitCC anI(l apprlt)VCS IlIC Colmll)osition of tile ComIlm ittle, pi Oposc(d by the
Clhairillanl ol tIe Commini ttee ol' I'I lvirIoIniCm tal I'iotc iiOiIl.
1'lic Coluliiittce sulpervis('s its locall agceicics. Itilc (2tldail1iall of tlhe Cominiiittee
(lOt illeS duties ail(d rights of lIhesc aglec(ics.
Aricele .18}
'Ilic Colimillittee of lIiivironiilicul lProtection has ille tollowinig (tlt ics ad(1 r ightlss:
a)  'hlcCoIiflittcc  ilmllIllcs lmvs    ad legal acts alppliovcf by tihe Cotiiicit of
Miniscer Ior ipotectig tilIc euvirolm111 ali         d s  id luito to Sliuperior institilltu 5ns Various SititCies
a0i(1 proposals for organizing, mll;lluigl, nud11(1 solvitig eiiviroiiiiienit.d                     isrsct   loll is.
h)  'llic Colulillittuc  assisis Olli suipcrviscs lilillistriCs, oilier luational aii(d Itan!
gOvCrililnCHIt instititiols, and I1d(iVidMlulIS tor IC,etI Clitilies tO iIpleCIllelt, leglatiOti fo r
protecting thIe Clivitotildeliit.
C) 'illc Colmllittce prepares diatis a1tleocniluitS, COIVIC11tioulS, pro(ocols, 1)tOjCC(tS 811(1
programis diaL wvill he imipleliled111(l ill 11ti  traminork oh l)ilatcral or niultil;teral coo)peration
blie ,,. 7664, ftwi'rrtmment                           - I 10                      11w ,!Wpwi.a buv Report



Wviili iniclliatlional illstitiltolls aii(I o1[ liiltioiIS  for proIcciinig the envivro:iinent, twd fOllOw
tpl tlhci ir   pltn menlatlioit.
g)  Ilic Ccniillitlee, if) coopcrl,  iti  wili fliliisltries and otlier cetiral aiidi local
govcrmnevl!t inslituitionis, manntagcs llloziitoriiig (lie pollutido   for thne purp)ose ol (leericilli ing
(lie environmental sittiatioli itiud Ibased  oti (dlta of ilndustrial, urbani andl agriculuwiral pollution
lovel and(i ollier dangerous, chemlic;  cal-loxic aniid radioactive suibstaicCes, proposes conclrete
mcasures lor prolectiug (lhc pmrity (f air, water, land, llora atid fauma of AMiania.
(1) Th'lC Colillittee stdiecs citeS(ds of Allianiia for exp)erts andtl co-ordinales (lie siafr
Itainhig and(i spheciMizi- ng lor pirotectliig  (lie clmviroiiiaiclit.
(1b) '1' l  oi Collimil le oJrlIlaliics and t   itspporls thce spreading of e(duc'atiito ;andol
participatioli of (lie pubilic four Iprit ccli i,g  lie enivirotinimeolt.  It organizes atd(l piublislics
s.:iciific ptil;iali ois auld Im.pilill iiiitiials Il ille CllVililimlCuItal lpiotCCtioIl alCa.
C)  Ihc (.Ctmillitice .ldiminii          md l n   (listrilittes enivitonmenial miiuids ciCatcd
accOrtfitu it) l llis I lavi and  invest imt tits tiutuls cstiibl if;lid Iby the stale  Itidgct 1t0m  Jlie
env ironniclmt.
C)  'IliC Comnmnitiee, ill (:1l wi;lion %viilt  inislriCs aidt  otlicr cenitral instittititos,
cotiducls ilic Iollowilig  itelils:
-   I'lic Cot( lliinii1ce ar:tp(oves admii issil le li inils of gascouis, liiqu id, ou* solitl anii(
ra  ioactive p1ol  lit ull Su0slallces disclhtlged  ill w ler, air or land(l as well as (ime admissible
li imiis of lharimlf(ul and  tox!c substances ill dalnlgerolus waste.
-  'Ilic CotitIIitjIeC  appi'ovcs rules loi gallieringy, storing, preserving, Irallspoltilig,
aid(l classifying dauugerotis substances and wasic, as ivell Ias for using natlral rcsouIces  hllat
are rejuvenlated ol 1itoi-rejiiveilu(ed.
- 'I lie Co(itmnilte deline s ihic list of substanices tliat conitaiin dangerous wasle andl tlie
liq:o thofla'gelmoius sibstalceS.
Ai ticle ell
'1'licn !im eul.torale of Il vilwi i     lma t atl I'lit)tCctiolt iS Oigalitizcd and   Imictlois attached to
11;(_ Comm ititw C1  tlilny1lli(mmCtI I llr()i( f *iorn.  'I'lio I ispectortic is comiIposedl of Ilsc chiief
i'liptector, islpectors attached  Io tIwe (' 4mlil ticr, an1d inspeelors ataclced to local agencies.
'Ilic Ni ini'mcr ol I lbli an,1t I d Flivirotni ewital l-iOc:ctimIt (IleCfiies (Itities, rights aniid
ti:11(witics .,1 ilic 1Inspeciornle ,,1 Iatvil,lilncn1t:al Irl-oteclioll.
'I he Ifispecloratc of Fiwirjomrle  ital IProilctioti, fio  inii)lcnimCitillg tlii.; I IW  CoCopratle
wVilt otlt"r Inlsptectorates anxl id'liceC Inti5tttion1)s.
Ai litle 12
1ll'> ('otitinitite. Munici pality  mt l)istrict Comincil hIns tbie followinlg dulies  ulod righits-
O)  I-Ie (7oliltici il  mi tei il       IS  a 'S and acts app-roved by tile CoI ncil of M  iaiitcrs on
ri)%'iromtil;eftai proitectionl iSSuILS.
It)  TI'e C{ m mtIcit lak l.tes mie tirels and eosuitres the piColectijon and cnv iromnmental
ejtvnhlatioll
c)  *Illt  ('ouillcil comp iiles alld( Il)I isihes progra ins and(  iecasures for lprolectilog dlie
(4w irIolinaw , ill c0oIpelatiioll wVitlt a iit I-izcdl and special,.cd1 ilnstitutiolls ill ilte field of ltie
,,,  4(    jfill lt .
/Is 1, 1'O.,        ltstlt                                  -)- 716,Fn4oni                77wAllmnia bi7t Urporl)l



S:)  'I ie Coil ticil inl urIlS llv'pple '    ic    (fie enviromin,c iital situiation antd  lor local
activitics ilIa t ar1c si lljcl to envirollellWeWi ll impact asscrslietlts.
(I)  'I'llc CoucIIil ilSpCOctS (lh   cilviromIInIItal sitimlaion aCCor(litig to ithis law.
(III)  'I'lhc Collficil adni'illislICrs andtI (listrliblies local crivirollillellial fill ids creapted
accordilig  lo (lIis lawv.
c)  'I lie ((t-?t1l1til dldfillcs places e;     ' storSl8ling .11d prlocessing ilic  indwlllsrial .11.d
lfolliestic -msle,that th;l ley (lot liol dlalllafqi,fir lc elivil'Ollel)lCI.
(.11ATEICRt VI
Itrs"l'().i fI IlII      l llftI!'  ANI) SANCTIONS
A iiide 43
Illdividtil"s or legal cliili is, whi() calusc (dalaiage lo  imtuIral rcsouirces, 'viCl   result il
elVjrOIIIr Iial pollmiiou  and &(1 liitige a11i l obligcd  lo l)paY  for UiIC resulifiig da-II.iJWe.
Comp111laills for [lie payilient. of (d ailmagcs iay be p)resnsiIrcd  to thli  cout by  individuals
or legal enitities who have sufferedl harm.
A/I{;t'te '14
I'lic  mpylimenl  for dlatimpc rcsiditi 11Ip         i f ii V civioli-lmicntial transbou iidauy poll ution atid
damage  Wvill lie made in accordanco  livit hili                    mferialoional agrecilzellts,  covlceitiots, Ireates, to
wi ic  'Ih lhe Pepibi     oifr AlbanRia is a ;lpat v.   In ca;ss wlhcii ltic Ree Imblulic o   Ao lbal .ia is i1ot a
parly, the payinlew  will bC  mIIadlC  ilil a mmmilnier lial is consistent widil gellerally accepted
prin cipl)hs and Ieplltatioiis of illlernaliomil:  rights  hiI ilc ciivironlllicntal arca.
Viola;tion; of tlis law, wvtwil 1n)l t 'o)nSlitulinlgt .1 CIiillinlal offense, comistittle a
v,iolation of ;wliu in isirlaivc Iitiles iii I'It C eIviroliliell;al area,  Violations of adm  ieiisiraltive
rtules (occur ill (le lollowiily C-asts:
a)  ITraisit trai'sporting    I wiilljlilt I I iccise old (imigcrolIs wasle all(l s,ilh.sliaces tliroug
the Werritory  anid Ic iritorial la id  wsalet s (d' ilic RepuiIblici  of A Ihanlia.
b)  Ilm portilng  lalngerolls waste ,11nd sItIhim            ces for preservinrg, storhig ')r (lestroyinig.
c)  Violatingjz iIsIOanIce rules dcl mei    ly  ilic    liniister of  licalilh a     I 11iviroiimelial
PlioLcCLioll, WlIcI I 11:nsportiiig da  tl: i    w'         sl' i WVSI t' or* Subt,SIaIlncS.
q)  FIfi!Llrc to scind, or pr";ct.iiltit)  Ii laC     than   lie  fi;.cd (ilat, or datal ol tie
CIV!1IOIllliCI itlI SituIaItion.
(l)  lailtire  1o stIlinllit, all;Itlwd  to  llic  inIofIO    ;tioln on  tilc eIllvilrollillelilal sill,aiosil,
rCCO.llilIllCiitiolls forl thie api tlnpi;lle  manrllliCI   f aCtion o- cilizCiis 'whllen .lIvcrsc
cosc(luttenctes  to tle eliviolotimieit  ate o' lticip)a(Cd
dih) IFailiure of individuals or le)a al cntilics to  inforill eloplc  for elvvirollilIclial
polilltioll midtl drinlage Calsc(l d ly iit iii, it ir i lteasr-es talkenC to I ii1it or climii ilate the dir d nage,
and(i for (lie ,ilpropriate Imnilnier of'   lio 1     oil  ilti?tIiS.
el)  F.ilmlle tj provide hlVlYc(     or (lIStlimliCls Mitll WiCCVllnt iiformatiill  about
I 11).' 111?. 17614,f Iilt t'rll .11                             I                              I lie A 11It ) , i  a,( it, Report



dangerous goods aid servicer, ail tlicir liossiblc advcrse e(ffcts an(  iiumpacts.
;)  Objections to, or failuire by ind(lividutials or legal celtiticS lo vIeoLl1it al
ciivironieiiial ilulpact asscssnl1CIll.
1) IFailuire to sulibllit dlesilpIlad(4 (dockilliIs forl liegint iiilg all envily  illlclital impact
asscsslnc III.
g)  Violation Of tile Clivirolliiiintal iipiiact assessmetit procedture  by experts.
gj) lExcIcise of eclinillie ans(i social activitics, whiicih ilmay alfect CenVironImeClnt,
williout receiving ilhc rcelvait limcnse froio    authorized salic instiiutionis.
it)  Violation of rtiles and inisiruictions, issutel by tlie Minister of licaitli and
FlIiviw nllilletlial lProtcction, frt  specially endangerCel cnviro'mimcnal zoIIcs.
i) Violalicoll of a(lmissil)i lifi'hs of sulbstanices that cauise envirommicuital pollution
(Icfinie(d by thlc Coiinititlec  foi lEnvironimental Plrolectioil.
j)  Violafion of' riles for   o4)ritlg, prCserving andI transporting (dmigerous substances
or waste that are (let ilic(l by tliw  Coimmiltee for Eiviroi-immeiital Protection
Ati(lc 46
I;or viOl;dti%, a(I ili'it liIfivc r0iles, Cstdl)lislied by arlicle 45 of ithis law, for
isitlivi(dsmals thlc fi,ic is fr'omn 2,0(0tS o? 50,0(0) leks, anii lbr legal catities thie filte is froit,
5,oo() to5)O,O)  l1chs,.  Iln addiion, may bo dlecidled( to conliscate equipmetit that causecl
ciivironmieiiital pollution anud damim c or to revoke tilc cnviromimnental liccusc.
IF or forcigin individuils or legal ciilities wlho conduilct their activity in tlh   territory of
Itih  Repuhlic ol Albania, the linic inutl  be pai(l in foreigii ctirre-micy according to tlc above
iiciitioued( fiies, coiivertc(i l)y [lie of licial rate notilic(l 1))b the l3amii  of Allbania at thie diay of
tIe ascentaihinicit of ilic violmtmioll.
Article 47
Foi violIt illu! admlillistr;lvit iv I siif s tlit rOllowing imtistilitioiis have  ilic right to re(uire
1yawilel. of .1 aCilc:  cillployees am If 1mc uiedI by  hic MI iniister Of lcaltit amid 1117nvironimteiital
I hotcclio(n1,  emliloelm)ecs ol  tIle Cm uiI (Iitce lot IFAMvironmciital P'rotectcim, aitluimi ized b;y the
cl...hi-ill;  i'C t    )(ime (oluiimittee amid i ispccztors of time Inuspwctorate attaclhed( to tlhte Committee
aitid ilispectors of' ILocal Alyevi  ics.
Availis! tfime p)mimislICIdt dcctiSirln a complulaitt may be imlade wilti' it 5 days fromi tile
dlay whiell Ille (Icisioll has beemil pwlhaimtied or aInnlotincedl iespectively to thlic Niiiisicr of
I   l;I DII;( I uV;whIIiInCemual l      cf ic IfIoln. ('1riual )mul otshe Coumli elifc. of I 'uvoiluollmtal l
I'loleclioll, Cimirimmiau  of (lit local ;twicy, ( Ihitf flispcctor ol thu Iiflscpt:lc(i-e oh
!.llvilol'llCilltll 'lrpmelt ionl.  I)'ccti  f nO time abic  'ove imiwlioncd amilioritkir, are ',im;u.
AiI i '0 l '1t
Filns must lhe deposirtd l ile  1tmilk  ill [lie  wcoillt o,f tile relevant ilistittitiolls,
whose eCmuiloy0c'ces have Illilposd  tih(";( iillCS, i11141 timi al withimi (oie imiomi lt Itom'i  IIIC klay wlite
th   fini-u1 uecisioll is fakeul.  Ftui c'vc'l V  i(t;  ol (uhy afft(r I'-' dICr(1lii;I- tIIe fiic wi!  iiicrease
pI e rcent *,vcr ius v'ltmc.
(iflwp ne. 766/1, l-,muit!a,wiI                             Ii                         l -ice  /lin    ami' Ict'm



If the aflOVe  1    le InentionC{d d;Ildilic iS exceecdd, tIic kiak wllCre inv I 1 ved individials or
legal citliliCs have current acCo n iuiv'S f IIYCe (lie  utXl(horily (I  executIc (lie desCioIll ulial Sel iIic
l;Ie o0  , if (eI(y (to not havec   c Ciciii bIsk accouit, tIle deciSioit wilI l)C exectuted( 6tascd oil.
lhc law mof dIr.awviiig stal e iCvelitle.
Aulicle 19
I ndiVidIUaIS or legal CiiitI;CS alipjcal sgailst ;    tie dII ecisioII for closing, suspcn(ding or
tota;Ily or partially SiieCrvlI)l    theW I ric;I icli Vi;i  1bY aIitliOfiC(1 1 iiStilnstitOiS iICCOrF']ilig to
articles 15, 24 atid 31 Of lthis law to Ile Court titIiii IS .dayS froIn the (date tihc tlceisijOi is
impalosedl.
CIIAI"IER VII
'i r"IAL Ph O)V l$0rI OC,
Af itilc  501
1zcvcelilcs floilo license l:u(s ;11a     lim i'cs gclicl'l; (l aicuo dlng to Oi is law. s ilist be
deposited it tlhe accouniit (ef (lie. idlevaiii ilnstilniilit s 1(ol creating cilvironiilicitial ftmds3.
Etnviromnenta! fiini(s wvill he uiscd as f'imiinucinl suppsort for tie f(llowtving activities:
a)  'T'aking  neasures in tlhc tihlinditfloii ol polluti s.urces.
b)  lDcsiguiing projects al(l  ahlinlyg rchabilitation meastires in ecologically damiaged
zonles.
c)  Scielntific rcscarcli, perfortlonimce of studies and Iraining specialists.
'Y)  Providing the staft and oflices willi necessary supplies.
(i) Comnioeisating enviromineimnl cmiployees, experts and iuistiftulions wlichl carry
ouLt environiincnfal imipaCt assesscuici is.
dli) A rfor(diitg admtinisl rativec rpcndiltircs relaled to ilte supervisihni of
eikviroinCiiial ;1111act asscssmiwi !, monitoring programiis or oilier activitics of ithis type.
A 1  Ide1   51
Environmicutal proteci a nlio   cinp C loyCes in accomilplishing their duties eslablisihed by
this laAv, cooperate wiih public otider pol ice and forest police, acccriling io a special
il.ntruction approvcrl by tlihe  Nfiis.Fn      dI t)l     I  h allh and EI v 'iiomilwiii !al Protection, the Minister
of PillWic Cirder 1il(t tieC Ministerl <1 Aricnimiie aIlld Fo((d.
At1 liCk 5X 2
'Thle Con ticil of Mill isicrs is attli horizc(l to issulct idlcd regIs lalionr.S to iimtlelmlient
tibis law.
Ai I it le 53
I)cCICe [o. 510S, date 30. 10. 1W73   1 or IiIe ciiviotiitiicittaIl piOLtectiol  alndl
In is,' n. 7061, F:- oin  ment                           - 1H1-                      771', A 11)5rniff viti lRepo li



presciv;ilionl  , ('ccfec ilo. 7'I5 I, daI'w 5.1.1991  "'Ior soniC chlainges lv (lecree  no. 51I05, daiC
30. 10. 19073 "F-or (lie enviromnieieI;Il p,rotectioni and(l prcservalion', (cci.ce no. 7452, (l'(c
5. 1.1991  "Tor cfcahling  lic (' ' 1miliveI   ( of lHuivironimicmial I'rescrva(io  and plloicCtioll" am
well as any oflier provisioul which coltrUidicts Itiis law  is repcalcd.
A tilkIC  54
I hlis IV ( COIFliS iilt ift)l e' af 1(- iie (JilbIeublca1iOn ill lleoorja Zy itre.
1'rech I i,sd aii' il (Ietvc ii'.. (417, tiale 2.2. (93).i sfi lic Pre.siathI. or t lie iteplimic
of A 11heliue,   nfi ll ei-istian.
lmi 'l,l,o., Zt,64  r,                                   i 5-           7Ile .1ima,ni,r l              rp vepor!



1, \ 1  !": [XFC'X 0 "I N     
V ,<,w .     **I W8 4N:;1dcl1 25  tilIy  i 994
vExp1'pli1'i1l l          fo I' fol l' Pl jlic     1Wrp o jscs a111
TolkPll}5l,   lr)  I |"',11 fl 4   I 11 (:151:llul.4  1P1  perl1 1



I., it WA
Phi,. 711,1  dl eli#  25.7. rl,gel
,,,I  1   ! I, ' l I   1   v,1     i '  I t l" )I", I RII  A'I'! Y  l 'l  It
l;ased oil arlicle   5 ofJ 1- ,'v i)i . 74(1 , dadc ',tt)     1 991  "  or iiaiii colistlilmiona!
Clautscs," p|!(1ji(vUlcd by  ihlC ( ol:icil fIl   Milinsters
PAMI, IAAt1,T
OF T1111; MIA J       1, 1 ,1C Ij   FIA LBANIA
CHA, TEIIt( I
Airticle  I
'I lie law  estabishiS IcIIC ritihi of the CovernminctII  to expropria!e of, to Uimc  ior
Iemp!1Ialy Uise imrumovable p)roperuty, o)lVlud by  individoiM   a tid  legal eit itiCs, for the pwbl ic
hIltcrcst, ,11J(I to  mkI{ (nVlCdjgc 1e11c IiughtS of' IhosC entities afkcctd  by  tlit' Cxpropiriatimi oir
teninporary  use of property.
Art4icle 2
Ae'roudiop  1( IthiS law, vxIploIl i ltiol fOr thie pliblic ilnlelest Oc'nirsI ill ilie folliowilig
Cases:
a) lh    collsincl ion (0' public ilohasli mun re snch  as  mo.id(s,  railw;')s, a.i  orft, polts,
hydop(iof wVCr stliaticos and  rcSIrv( tins:
0) flor cons m dt ill aild iuu   linucveulielt (11 jnrf 'tic works ill irba n r tras sritil as  ce!cctric
nletworks, gas, steam, watel- p iple li ues, clamin  itng ;nd w1lccomitaunicsitions net woo ks;
C) 1olr cOInIstruction oif, oil a1u1(t gas nitwotrk.s, fiot( cr tauisiiiisSioll and  dis(ribiltioll
sysictuis, rescarch, drilling, &I            c1opIiwio u'r111d Ilse (ol uuillemrals, oil', gas, arid water;
n) Itrl cmi.strct.oll       o'i pli  c, I';ililuws Stcht ais scl!ools,. hlospiialas  parS, sporil ;nd
residenti;Ab centers lo lie 1)1milt  ry 1o(wcl uiriueit fuintd:; 1ol Iam ge scale housing prt)jcct';
41) f'or IMotlecioC0   Of1' Ira? inil,l, Iistorical airri ail etclrogical tneasures;
fill) 1o  lstlatelTic plpJOi('S iii 11.I1it,iiad p)Iotleclioll11 aild pliblic order.
A r1icle 3
\c(coid(1il      io A; tilj     2 .  Ilris law, expnrnjpriatini l(ir the pitululic illnCrcst aillis aid is
:11,''  7    tA/s- i I!'4'/'tr''rI'Iut                        -I                             i       .    I.v>,. tIt?,l u'lrt



realized by using lanidi f(,r iCew conlIruction projects.
Exccptions tot tihis ruic arc (lltifc(l in item "cl and "dlii of article 2 of this law.
Article 4
In all cases, expropriationt of immovable property for tlie public interest is carried
out by the decision of the Counicil of Ministers.
CIIAIIRI'EllI
DIOCU 1 N'ENS lFOR EXPROPRIATION
ArIticle 5
I'lie documents for cx prop liiation In LIst contain:
a) thc request for exprWoprialmion of immnovable property for tile Pliblic interest;
b) a summary shiowitig tlc object lo he constructed, the aimn of tiie project,
indispensable argumentationi oni expropriation, projected expenditures, and tire deadline for
expropriation and( new constrtiction;:
c) the list of exproprialed owners, properties lo be expropriated, and time amount of
compensation;
t,) nianed locationi of lthc objcct.
A rticle 6
Tlhe (locumflents lor the expropriation of imimnovable property for the public interest
arc compildl !y central and local government offices and all other legal entities requesting
expropriationi. Expropriation for hilc public interest is carrie(l out in favor of the national
and local governimienit, agencies, and institutions tiat represenit thcse ilnterests.
Commercial comipanies will benefit by expropriation only in very special cases and
according to this law. In this case, land becoines govermnent property, whiicih is leased to
the commercial companies rcequcstinig expropriation.
Article 7
Tlico request for expropriation miiust lc puiblisled(l in a local newspaper, under whiose
jurisdiction is the object to be expropiHated, antd in a niational n^wspaper. Publicationi is
made 30 days prior to (Icliverinig ili documents for expropriation. Publication is imade by
thie state agency or legal entity wlho has prcscnted the request for expropriation, after
preliminary approval by the responsilble agency in thie decision for expropriation.
Ar icle 8
The municipality of comunieLulc, und(fer wIlose jurisdiction is the objiect to be-
Cxpropriatcd, inakes availablc to tIre inieresic(l partics, fol a period of 30 (lays, thie
I 1-in 7R JR, rurppriatiml                  -2-                  77te AlbaItnti Lim Relpotl



doCti IlCtimc.  tl  CIor Olep  o iatioll.  A iIev ihlis per iod, Ilwe dIocillllCIS, %,/itl, Il i  relevaiit
Coiinclios itby the i lcielterSCd paIiCs, ;llC del ivered to It e (Coiuncil of Millislcls, wlhichi is it
cOlillctlnl ;'yCIICy kt IOr mkilj Illn dth e ciioii fl  ('iioI'plollri;1l0l0tl.
41111'A 10t1 )i, Ol'e EXPtOPRIt   A'UMN
Ar-l itle 9
'I Ihe Coll icil  of, MIllisI ers   IIial:e's (lii' rcsp)cct ive dccisioll  tit flius"t indiica;I  Ille object
of expropriatioln aIdl tile stih icct, ini whose faivor tile exproprilltion will be m  ade.
'lic act procfaimitil i[      p CX opri)tio]I     for I 1lic1iC jitirlposes 111tiSt also conlain  a 1 eriod with in
which iliec xprop;ri.w ioln wvil legpin aprl cid(l.
Article 10
The c ecisioll of thlie C'omi  il ol MiI listel.; fri Ilie etx  iroprm nltioPl (1  mll-nimvrlbc
property  is perlformed by (lic it immiricpaiy or coii iititlie hi (lie territor-y  iii wltichi hlie
property is locatced.
W^ithivii  31) days Iguis,-   llt  dche  in .c(,   1f1i tlh, (latte oF  x)piropriation   Ile. :le   iuri in ai y or
cOWIl^l1illC itlijics, ill wrifing, the o%vilprs 1t1 ho exproprinlcd.  'lile iIOIii(c[ioll titlist
contait:  refcrerice to tire dceisiovll fir(c 'xprot atiolul, tihe ideinity of tlhe owIIC!,  lhe object to
be exprolprialed.  'lic amomiu;t avaiil ole  lor ci) itciisalimit, titc (lea(dli ic f(ir tle coUmpletion of
eY proprintGol ill (J Illte  igill Or Ihe  mvIleI 0   (iIloloSC  I  i dec isioll.
Article 12
A  icr be iiig Inililnlialed II li tlle smlc ageincy or- lega! enllity, cv:ghiictcrs, archlitecli alld
tlirers iesponsible for adiniiislevig iht' decisioni for cxprol)riii ion, ate eOititle(1 to eliter tlhe
property  to be exiprop)riatced andrl &I peti orm  tire niccessary tecihinical procedures lor
'necasuirinlg a ir  formi riHig   gra;  iii icaf lvCj lpl  scs ;atioll ol tlie p  lopcl ty.
Ihe aIIIove 1Ctn11ioftC(I ICISerIs S aeC pi OVi(IC(d wiit (lie relevant writteni autihorization
by (lie llead of Ilic niunliicipality or commiurre, accoidinig lo (lic location ol tile property.
Atitliorizalioti is rtle1scd( ilhrece (ays alter tire ownier receives nrotification.
ExpeCIIses for tile  llotiiiCaIi(OI  piesemicd tO (ihe owners is coverec( by the entity in
Wl, Se favor the exI)ro)riatioII will he cauried outi.
Tl(e i111ti'icipality or, coivmmiltve, "ii tIlt territory in wiicli tl1e propetity is located,
select a rc ipesetlitive to supervise IlIe aldminiiiistratloll   ol I lie (icC isioI for exIpIopI riatioln.
Ilit, 73,18, 1I ftl(Apptiatimit                              --                         71. 11w  ,,thin,a I :)iv R¢epolf



MAUic(l 13
1d(liviitl(Is Whlo    a                   11(i  atilhol iiedtl r[ill'CScill;iliVe Of llC Iltilliticipllity  or
coiillil c r¢\eu arding; flic vioj ci fy  lo    1(' v )1 plrlatd ot-l or riiiove lvc                   h  n almaLcrs  lptil) For (lie
cicatilonll   (f  itic project , arc  l mlicdi'              1'1 admliiiiisirlllivc  ililrilii nclctti ;11           i c   l)y  tile licld
of (lie  nllicip;llily or coniiirmme    ctiwui-ii 5,()()0   did  Y),09() IC0k.
4 '11, IA 1 1i1t 1 ,
f\T!71' 114 11 OF (CO)PEll'lNSAT'i'ON
Iiiti)lovahl1tc  InjtCiipry  i.N c tlfnjttiilltc  (            it l Ii)   cillily  1II the  (ull  uiiarlwt val&ue, in favor
ol  Ilm. civ'ily  lor wh'iloIl tm      e cxj,,oiii i;tifji  is leinp, co trrie    o t.
A itAide 15
11 tile    nimmovable  p1ropel   1, lo 11 t' explroprialcd  is t^Iscel by  tlhe owiler, (lie ciltity
iriking   le (tccisioii takes   lilt  ;l'to           tltimit ilic  iiilcIest ot tlic  Icasr   nd td Ilirdi party  wlio  will be
dlat inagcd  by  exlproplrnItion.
Ariiive 16
Iln cascs    hvilet  exp)I(Ilprinllion  for Ilie 1)1im)lic  ii lidest is associated  wili thII:. devaluation
oh a pairt Cim a i is  iol t   ltCe  Cxl(popri ilii ((          r oV   1a properly  bordering  tile onie  to  be
xpromIiat(ld, compellsalfioln  in providled  eqalal to  ItIC properly  4cvaliiatioi.
IlslalncC.5,  liieillols, .1111 i (' vnI c  n al imtiha     of the aIloilillt to  beC  Coipeli.satcd  ale
(ef jilled  by  t1' legitlatioll's  SC   by t1Y          (h'otimcii ol' Millistecs.
Articlk 17
WVvhei   uiuittvahlec(  plo        tl iv  1; - t      o1)l   i:afcd d( w lie ; 't!nl u1Ser is c te uis aled  I-ob   all
dli  ct fmill;ii.iall  111nd  ucoollonl.  I:IIIIc    e'., t1mIedlo t  11l  imillciCtlieIVt,0)il of 1ih I               t l.
/1111> 781.?, 1wll >tt,,,- 1p1CJ)M11(V                                                                       11lIimillit 1 ...... puIl).l/



Ai liciv I
if ile cxpio(priaIled(  pvi o        fii iVs nof Il ;ted for the pu,'rp e0s;e  f W'expii.p t)a   lioIn or is not1
uscd  wiihiiii Iwo yeats fromt Ilte ula;fte fiI lhe fIPeisioll, tlht b01teCs                lICir  III)(l) request, way
fiully Irc'laih  liis pilOperly as it wv;is pr itr to ex proprJi;atimill.   l Is tiis cse thle oivt e' IIC ni lst
repay tlhe a iaioumii reccivi414 l-tl c(mpit   N   ilcit!;Ii  or tial wllich  was givenI  ili ktid.
AI Odce 19
1'or thie aptJIwaiSalI (if tnjopci ly Io4 bC vxI ropriautxd, a joiiii group  ott                pc! t   is
csnibl ishied.  'I lie l;rOItp  is Colitill ked ,C   1 ( IICp eslillatives froltil (lie Urb;ain deImiar-1clnt of tile
(l isriCt res1itisibic for thIe nIpIwa isah 0I S;ICS andl bt)i I(diligs, frothl the agriculiimal deparmient
iii (lic (lisI ;- t respons ib    lt RI Ile a; pp aisal o           tt                    (I fromilt    f;Sl anrialtt
(lcdiartienl   in i ic (liStrict reCspowJ.s   iiile f01 the' valualion of ollier immovable prop-i-tefis.  'I'lie
appraisal is s;igned by  hircc exlc imS.
AutHeit 20)
Tnv': comlpwensanotn fOr olie CtX expropratedC(  lprolpctIy iS lprovidledl iii lcks or, by
aireccment wi(li  lie owner, in kind wiih the samte estimated valuie as the expropriated
object.  iii cases wvhIcn expropiria<dmi is (or public hlouising conistructioln and(i finaimced by
goverimmit fii.ids, according lo ileiin  "c" of artidef  2   f (Ihis law, the ownet is entidled the
righIt to chIoose betweenl comipens   ion in Icks or comIpensat ion in kindl0 otl the object to be
constrmctcdt  , (determi inecd.  by  limc rat io I ctwvCcn (lie valute of' tc klatid anid the value of (lie
construct ioll projrct.
Ar itile 21
fiN}VIcvCe  poSSil)h(; a tind I         alijion  ;ipprova  of ithI   owner comnpelnsationi iS giveI ia kind
for agricill(III-:i  I.Ind ;1111 comstnictlion s-iiCs.
( M11,\TTO A111wFAII
A I&  tivIc 2,
the  )wII(I r 4f th{ie iimilov;l ell' i)topet ty to le cxuii (piiate(d andl otlier ilidlividulals,
(lalijaCl fly tic (, xpropr iatioll 4 '1  wilillw-ary uws  of p(lluity, hmavc the right to appeal to tile
dkliet Co in ilill 6() 6    days fi nh111 Olte        e of lcciviliug  Iioilicatioii.
(Chilms ma.y 1      ' w  piews'II''I nvi':'ni ;He derisioni for expropriatioln or teiIIpo11-raiy Use of
P IWC.:;", IIIc hIn  lihl od l ( api -,   i: l :i  :III I   Itilm  iIIwIt of c4millpcilsatioII.  T I I\I C cxIICttS  eIIC
nuiiiiia~en  ,4  1O. ;Ilpl is; a   i' I(' ploj'(eiy at11d  Iitc ;timomimnt of tlec COmpIlIlSiticIl, two of
wvich  al e inifilwtmtdl by  tIlhe c mil ;11l( olle h' the owner wbose property is to lie
lvw )-'148                                                                                 V) e''l''tXy  A) 17 e  m fizsi(  ftv flze, )o If



A   1 ICe 27
If the owIICr, wliosc properly iS t(cmporarily tisct', according to iilcn  "a" of article
24. refuscs tilc coti1pcisalioil rlloImiciu, Ilic prefccitiri  ordl;rs that the ainotint iin favor of (lie
owier be (depositCd.    li tlis cnse, dispitles nrc setllc(l by ilia (lisirict couirt im';icdiately after
fluc sivt' ion lias lcctl slabili.,.d , iCcordhilig to provisoils of Claipler V  of thiuls law.
lule (lisilpites arisililn   floll teiiiporary iise of inmmovable properly uiiicitioicntii           in   elils
"1" &nd 'c' of aiticlc 24 of Ilhis law, ;rc scilled by  hlic (isirict court, atccordlillg  to
provisions of Chalptecr V  of ilis law.
A rli le 21;
'rllic temporary IIse of immhI11i1V;5Ic lcpOI)CaIY  ( ii 13C rCqIICsted byl ilic cuGuur.actor foI
construct i bui I) ilding i ili    puIuIC       i nterCst, Ior huil(l ticcessary in  hlic conistructioul of roads
necccssary  for (lie transport of conisiriuctioll m1aterials, olpcllilg of chilael)As for iurslal!atioll oF
e;lginceritig  nietworks as wcll as c1iher operations iieccssary loI- he imlpi:le-inc!ilaIionl of the
proje(ct.
A'el -1 ic!29
mI4CaiICst f1or temrupoiu ny  11;   14 p opl           I         1y ccord ilg to i(ciuI   o" ui   0c!. ?2  of tIiis
law  is submitted oC the hicaIdI of i1w, immticipality  Or o IunmtittIiu            by tihe gm,vriir'icu  agency or
legal entity, wliiclI liveitl   {'s I lic ir di cisirus ami(d passets ilie re(iuesi to t(lie  prefecture for
approval.
Thn  mp(lit'St tiIIist co)!W0ali:
a) I )vscriputiotu of p opctiv to) l, lempimorarily Im'sd.
1i 'I'iiiic frame tor slrlipg ;;tirl cuidi ol the (emp oriry Ilse.
c) (Comupeuisatiomi oflfrde(.
Ai Iike 30)
The (I"Cision is coimuuitt iti 1iiuii     i) I lie ifilftrset(l owIiCIS whio, in thlt cases nliwitionted
ill itelims "b"  a111(d "c" of article 2'1 of Otis law, are ciii led   I'bc riglit lo  1ippeah wihin ICII
(Jays fuoilli thic (alC of uo1tificat ill.
Ai liele 31
IciTim aris        Ilse o)f pi plct ly cariulot  I( longer (iait Itwo yeurs froiui rhe date  Ilie
(Iccisioll haqs hell Ilulade.
Ai I icle 32
Wihrut the property e11I)m ik iI' ulised is mcited Ic   ilo it. oritJimal ownier 'lauaiged or
(c valued, ilic owner hras the liJ 111    h i(' complcsate(ld.  Il case oi dlisputtc', hJrovi.sionsi of
(hapier Vi of iluis lamv elter inio loice.
lax,, 7S,1,, / lprOPitalfiel                               ' 1-                        7hic AlbmtiiaX1n ldi, ep(poo?



(11|       1,111z\1, I't)\ il(l;
V II A 1,IIIti O ,V V;I OM
/s.iif*i'. 3y
fin:   the owiUr Is             , II r  ,Iflihi 'd, Ilic amollIoii  toCc.)ompellsatiol i; (!eposite(d ill a
s)pcial bJ11,k  ncoaC(  1it 1  O    ;1 pc, ih  ,(ofr I w C    yc a is.  1I iliC nwiicr has still n,ot becn i(deituific(l at
Ow z,Id ol, ; lii picriod OIC a?,II)Jintf Icc(mlcs, budlgct reVemIIic iiiitil (lhe ownier makes aii
0l1 .∂;4, I I-C. ''lul oWIlCr Willt   I i    i( t'i It id ell aller the deadibinc oF five years hias Ilic righit lo
Ci   e ow\ '.l c'    t lrsaOll IogCIi.r, !; i\ lih l1   amou11 wnt Of inilcrest carved Onlly (ILUring thIC five year
lCliodl.  i le is Ciltil IM l1c      I I lht ;t I) np i alioly Cou  Ille amniount of compeisation, accor(Iinlg
to  llc jwloc uircs defined  in tIbis lwv.
wlter  it iS  urdl p)ossih!o Io conrll t   wlie (wnIrCI' of the property, the amount of
CkIJW IISaIFi OII   jc0 (lediposiid(I :;1 'a *)ctiaI balak ,wco(mu)i.  At ilic iuiotuienit dli'  owiir is
idei liulied, lie has Ith   l ight iot [CI c iC  iw-    ii     ICi tllc;mpll all(li (e itietrest cu'iied.  lie i3
enii;icdi ilit right to  !pplIul wiily I(c  tlhe aniu iit of" COImpCI salioni according  to the
p;;;cc(ldiwr. s ucu ,,, oiCidi ii id: i;IV.
Aiiclel 34t
'ulle (CMItnCil of MihdiSit'us iV  mIIhlI ,riicd to isstiC inisirtictiolis and (iCcisilol lo
iiliulit.llell; (hlis tlaw.
Ai (kict! ,15
D)cc ce ino. 44,..       datcd I 3     . 1   9U) I    changed  af[tert law  vo. 4626 dated 24. 12.1969 oil
"I 'Xpro     imionl adl Ie.II)pos.rv  uIIS   I1 Ilopel iy` as well as aniy othier provision rilqrning
C.11Ii'.l'y lo tiui la;uw arc IclCicalIxd.
Auticle 36
Thhik  hAy  t'IIICS  il lo  l'O1t'c     I i s d iy l elt  publiclit1ioi in te!c  "PIclor-j;  Zyrtai-c."
h'uThkuiliuId  uvilI I, flCtIe  l um. 4.'10, (late 4I.1l. 199.1 of tile V'rcesid(eu( ltf file ltel)nlihllc
of' Al,uaiiia,  ail It ltei-islhuu.
I  v 78,13, i-/AI /'to rlilel                                    -111r AtIl',iri U4  irl'rpm' rr



d1 I 1N i         t'
La:tw  No. 7698 dated  1 rj April 1993
Rstilittf itio; '11d (1CI.  opea-tIfilly
Fri}Ilf.le .l-l'1il'1  Propertyl)



I8Z 'lf, 51, 4Ilitle 15A.1.1991
1FiOt ItF,! T lTltJTiNG  ANt) VI '' ;I I'Er1j;,'J'lT ;IPIC  FM)I ER1t OWNI:I  'l,lO'PEVT
I;-iscd o)1 aiticcl 16  oI(     vI In ll0 19 tI .at  29.4. I991 "I;or ina in constlirtilonal
clauses", p)roplosed by a group of  liadIatenit miemiliecrs,
PARL I IA NI ENT
1O: 1 ' F l lTHU jlM*JjUJLAC OF    ,tLANIA
I)  , (C1 I I     1):
Article 17
'Ilis law recognlizes tll rilght o  ofownrship to all lorutlc'r owniers, or tlcir lhcirs for
propei 1)y wlhiclh has hcin natioialiicd, explopriated, or confiscated according to legal acts
(including law  no. 37, date 1 :i1. 19415 "F or extraordinary iax"), sublegal acts and court
lecisionis isslie(l after 29 Novelmbecr 19'14, or laken illegally by the slate at anly otlher
method, ias well as d(eterlilneCS iieCtliO(iS and mcasurcs for UC3istiltitir'  or coIm1pen1satil1g tliemI.
Article l
According to this law, p)roperty mcans imnmovalble lproperty as lmuildinig sites,
buildhi ogs,  nnd everypltinig else thai has b)CCn permanently join)t to themii, suIcIh ais housing,
factories, workshops, shops. where hlouses, and1 every oilier construlctim!i.
TI 1is lIv (loes n1ot hich uude ilulilmovahile ploperty in llfie form of land that is subijct or
law "ior land.n
Au-id 1  31CI   I.6.8
For the putpose of reconlizing, rcstitutliig o,r Colmpe'iisatling properties, aciccorditg to
tlis law, laud(I mueais a bu ild intig site, ;iricult  r.al land nund ni-rigricLultural  land,
A building site is a parcel of        lllnd that has hebncu  mortgarged, .111(i was located witlll
boun dari Cs ot uirbanI areas at l 1I  lii  of . Cexpropriatiin. I aut urban arca does tiot lhave
1l,0rmal bounl daries  a but ihl ding si(e is a lparcel of lalnl  ot whliiCI is located a build inig or
facility and( inlcltuldes the area arontld itte Ou 1d(1 jiug or facilit iw accssarv f(r normal
eperatiotu.  Normnal operatlon; i.f a h, lIdi i ,, or facility are conisi(lere(l to r-eqtiie ati area
(Ilithec t hllics(lIe, area occupied hNi the Olilding olt  facility, except ill cascs (le illctl in
owilcrsllili (Iloctiucitlls.  Iln offclt  worvd!, (te. Ib,tildilln; or falicility occupies 25%  (if WIfi  to<al
lanld assuciac(d witlh Ille building o1 r facwility.
Apricualtral or nion -nr  uicIluIrl  tai ;1is a palce  of !t nd that hlas bIv.I      located   oltsidc
tlihe bollldaries ofll atiural nale (ea  tlle ilin i le of1- cxlpropir ioln, butt which, ;It Lt  tintlc of Ilic
ctToctive (lat of tilis law, is hoileln it'rwd as a h1lildill site. 'Ite instC litioll :11111mt l izedl to set
tinI han II boundaric.s t1 imy CS1h) IliStI lm;l)Itis;I     inI I i tw di-Ce  lt si llalions.  lur.st, ii IIN an
lIv ?Iv97. ( 7 ,f/;ts{rfi  pt(IItY                   - I                        71., A//!alI'ir 1, pi'W



boluldarics rio  ncm  ".XisI, aml sctcunii, if 1)1 III iiiCS  bxid  lilt 11)I15  bc CAe  a llietd to
aCcoIulmodte fLItIIl-C gIOWl Iil allP p)roper (IoCuImiCI)tS liavc Wet,ll jIeparCd corresponding to
hl is lo,mdt tary  exipanisiori.  Ill liotli cases, (lite bomidatles set by Ili  auti(oriled  ihstiluliotu
will bc rt'cigtizvJ! as ilic oflieia/ htmidn arics on1  Ilie CelcCtivc date of this I:nw.
Article 1't
P'rolperlics tliat at  he ililu    Or of i1Cc effte iVC dtatc ol thlis la;w  cxist as uIIoCCIIJ)iCd
t,litiliia' Sil;'S, a.1"riicllttial, oft 11(llt   gti icltll-ra Mtldlt, o0' 1111itlallged 1w ildtl7gs, eXCCp1 il
CasCs k1clilled  ill tlhis law, are  icuiglliz(d aild will he restittutedi to formner owiers oe their
heirs.
'IIlue a'llin1I1 of itilc resliltllioll ()t It col    ti isatill wvitih  an equivaltcii parcel oF land wil
et! at. il5 ctill Value up fto  I((0 I t1',, eXcept ill Cascs defillCd  ill IluS law.
Whern tilc size of plopellY  is  loin   lt).lt)0)  I   ll) 10,OfX) !, tlle a;lliunllt of
rcstitifitoll, or comillpclisatioiI wvill ho c:i,ial xvilli I1IY,%, whilc whieni tlie size, f 'properly  is
m    tor    i; a i t)10,0t)t0) Ilil, ilhe . auior     will lie equ    vilih  I ∞,.
A  titIcle 6
F ormer owiiers olf l)buildin i!ii  an t        uildiigo  sites, whlo have beeti cx proprialed  for
puiblil- p lioses nilld, at  llie (jte ol le w  expropriat io, (ficy have liecit ttmally comIpIJeliSaiCed,
d1o PIot b1l) lefit by Illis law.
Vlicii for mcer owniers clhim  fOr iti    l               tllitill and . miianct or of tile vailuatiol, they l1ave
IhIC rielgt to appeal atid, if (lhcir claiiii is cettified(, tlicy will be comltucismed  witlh ithc
dilficlClico, adjiistcd by  thc ililltalill il4lncx.
Ai-Ic-i e 7
A  l(irileL o(iW cr Iias (lie r ifvlit   roccu  ive  liis Imilditg, for whiicii he Ima, len
COl(nIpe ils     ',I il at l value ;at lth   Ilm, ni  1 (f    1 x ol riallioll, wilen this  liUil(dii)g  tilsa  I,ot beeel
delloltlislhed, allmd h as not I)CCI\ ulstil  orI  'ubli. pllitpoSeS.  'The forincr own(er i3 reqt ircd tc
pay II.ick li11  recci ve(l colupyeisa imi u  al inSlCd b))y  lie in flation inidCx.
T      l tS laW  recogliiics tIic  I rhli of O     ricuship  t4)  foriier owners For buildings  hllat llave
llt)   CeII d       (tl i11c(1l adu    ilichI cavo 10        c l ice 114'tight by (lie stame, eveni wVhCi chey are Usedl
IoI p)ti) ic pi irposes.  'ItIC (;fGVCIlerm  IeIni imiSt sig   ;1 a lease c ilrtact wi;li forimier owniers
accor(dinig, 01  p)rovis)V;S     issC(I w  (iOw ( '1 1Inc i ofMittiste Os for tIIis purposc.  [IIe
(jove.-IIcnllt       alter three  milas, is leiEllilt ed tII resl;illllc bt)lilttilpls to  forlmer OWVcII             hen
Illey ailI)iy lt0n tc lestitillioll.
,A 11 icit' I;
A  l(orie'r (mvtiic  has lie I ilp;l io 1iCc(iVC  hiis cxpiropirited(l bitilding sie. efor w lhichi lie
ti,a; jtcii Compli Reosat1 at 111ll Vat ier, whlivii HOin; btuilding sile hIs not bell 1rv;("d for pnrtJIIOSCS
ff  I 7j,~,     ,ffqff ff1 ff.t,ls,1 I' ilt ..f..f....  - - -                                17#{19' ,''tll*fhfcI"



o(f (,;Jpo)priao jn,t,l   a t i( (it  lic  iii(iIIt;it if is hot  lCcpi 'cI t I           lrtier owIcr is requited  ;o
pal  W-ick  t(ne rcc:iveld coipellnsalion aldjusted by  thie infllatiol! ilinlex.
ArOidle 9
F    mieiC1 omviers have the right toi receive thieir propljerlies whtiCI the court vetifies that
t1;C  (Ir V rucIt las  lia[l bollglilt sticlI property wilotit tliCir approval.  fit this case formiier
OVI'%'rs ae recj lliiC(d  to pay back (liI momilt. receivC(l by tihe Goveriiiciit.
Aricle 1()
ForImter mVIlCIs have fIle r glwt It receive (heir  iliildi Iigs, wit icll have C een Sold  to
{lbi,  parlies.  'i'lmc '6ovCrw          Ilent i .; reipii ied to pay back  tlhird parties accordI ing to (lie sel Ii ig
a( tlhe tilne of ilte sale, atihsltetl bY t1c iWittlal1iu    id(Iex.
I -.irmer o)vtiCrSi, who donatled their pri  qeri ie t )o ilth  (kvernincnt. anitd, fIur tliese acts
cx ~   relevalt  (lCdoIfllelits ,1 itl pl,Iilicabonii     s, artc lot snbject of itiis law.
At iclte 1.1''
F ormer owniers lhave (lie ti lIit to receive tlicir building sites, agricuilturaul, or inoii-
agriculIii ral laud. wvli ich  have. heen sold t(o  Iltird parties, and t(  litre a;e 1iio perimlmnelit
buiiidinps o01  hlicii.  'I'lIC   ov'ternIt m  is reiquired  1∞o  pay baack tIlirdi parties accordlitng to tie
s( Ilillg p3rice at filc tile of tihe safe, adl jiusted Iy tlie. itilation  ii(lex.
Accord itg, (o  (lie de1il ti i 'II abovCe, Iliosc parcels (if latll, whlich  are dividedl based oi
la     o 110. /5#) , (hate  19.7. 1')I  "FIkwr hiand", will ntot hc rcstiltited  to  foriiter owners.
Article 12'
1P- iv;le  itlitividual.t; Il pl  v'I'ui.ics xvhto oxVII buiulditIgs, ate rCqt111 d lo) pIay a rCeIt to
flIC 0 .vrcr 1)1 fic l)lII;lltlI   SitC, o 1' to rc lbh1y Ih            l building S;   accorditig  lo ttc contract that
I  I ill        I    ICe iw tg    ween III lie 1pIt I its.  TII  c(mut Ias. an I hurlI ty to resolve tl IsitI es.
tI ize'ls  whI o have cut No  cw I . oit mre coslisirctming  iotoisiwig, accord liiu                    I gal
1t tCeJuv  '; , jiil ?ttlo   s Iliat have b': t   esitblisitI'd fly (bjly platittlitg  foV  tI1assive construction,
nt? -'ot  l'jbet   ti ' thlis ai it- '.
/At Iide  13
I - tit er ovn its lave   w   i ' ipb   tt! tctivc Iith-ifr hImildlitngs wVithoui  paving back
cIt'; IItIi I 1 bliv  I  tIm       v i' i tI I r, I ii . or thI twX we r, fir srtInicitIIral c  ilf Iics,   lIIIrexes or
if;>'or  hao,  filmis of formirtO   li-'. valt' l)ltiltilps, whenll 1th  wXjI'Atwiltill-cs collsist 11i  lot 20%  of tle
Otliddillll- N"I:lmC.
[I nlel owNVIles have Ilin tI li! Ili re-ccive  tlheir Imildings, after tlhCy  have pai:l hack
IthE   1Ie tl -' ()',") % 1 IIIC VFIIof theI valuw  of    urIwheat expwliiics made (ot)ltsi3l of 20%  up to
of  :e   imtildirtg  value,~ Thmviue   't  xp(emh ituts w-ill I)e Calenilatett accott-,itmg tiI
CO∞ISIt tIl- 'om  Iii ices at :1C l itme of' l it hi ildiwi)g It'sttli ;ion . A  buildin)g  wVil i'inm;wi  ill Co-
OWttlet     .- ': l' wheit the val ue I(' \l'  WIIlilI     c i'; Ill r 1Im1 C  Wlei,n 1)  oille  l)itihiI   vallue.
-i,,  ,/, .  . ;,I,, r,,,,,V,,,,,, J,4,I,,',,,,,,'-  - -lie Albf tlti'i La    /?clI(mI



I'lic iresti titill I(if fldil(liis5 lo folr er owvnier   is re1iCiri id  to bC mimid   accordinjg  to
SItte lioriiis of lb eir u infeullan;cc amid  iIst.  Auhiorizedj  exp eCrls IIIIist evaluate all intentional
(dg1111;1gc rallCed  I)y  ilie 11maltrcatiluicl l   bilildings, wli ii iiist be  indemniflied  accor(1 lug  to
provisions 11  force.
'Inlle cokii t has ;ItIiioriiy  to so1lvc (dinp)ul fs bt eelC              lal pairlics.
Article  I4
RcIlaimi1ish1iJ)sly; blieiv       I lnailki anid,1  Iclw er mwiVieCs %vlio will becomc  owiners
accoldiig,io  utls law, wvill be tep!ilateut nc oidinig lo  law  iuo. 76552, (Ilte 2:3.12.1992  'rFor
jprivaLizinig Sl;;"  ilflhi.il g.,
A  tenanllt is rceiquired  1o  le;ive Iiv oI using  whn8                  Ilic tfornier owiner oIlhe Ihiuli sing
fiinds otlier liobtsilig  l6r himi, at the s ic InIIbai arlea, wvith a livinig  Space accor(lillg  to
cxisIiligt slhellerilig   llils ; Is  i tie daw th  II e il i n is law   lec(Jolmes celdclive, btut n'ot iflol-C slace
Il!pt lie ha 1s ai the fortuner *'wivr loiiSiilIr
'iblic (overiliniilt is reqliildit  I'  ' skdive In'aisinig  prolblennis of ilhc crlilrsil levt  ilis
accordiung  to acini;al shellteriin; II4lII'ir        . fIN'llif  lurim iVy lo  t illlilies wvit   Icss l'irlllicial illcoille.
l orinner ownIlis  inialy (choon;et lIwhtIllh,IS (eijileti by  Ibiis law  Fir bciing  (co plieins.ateC(.
,\,If{irlvt  15
lForimor oViIor5; have  (lie i irilu IfI  -ie, ilwiir lpili(liing siies wVIiicl II;IvC hocil
Occupied  %vitlil tlipol          ry cuiiusil li cl im     l       (1f'illitill ,or a telipn       l-ary conLstructionl is
providlv(  b, ,,ilic ('ily  l'lannlillplI, 16.41iMlio)ll
WhIeil builildillpg siles ame oul-iipicd bty pelimmieli C,  oistlic(ionn, forlller  t)Wint: S  will be
mOIIIiu'istCd  wi1lhiil li ii is           Cpi e lilpi;ali(lil ill tOw  lollowvilulp  meItlIo(ls:
a)   Willi StIlte hl)lds1     , whiclh will I-' usedI ;i'c(PorIding tio tle cqinivaleint valtic mad  withi
priority  in rAlal ionunshlpis wit in tie (the Gov iini-nt in I lic process ol tle  lprivatizatlion of slatC
ellietlurises, anid  ill otllr'I'( a iviliCs   ll iaii          (lf(11t by loalils;
b)   wviln -Ill an  (tlivIleiit  ni  ccli of binliilinig sitc iwcar to iti amb             are.:s  n.ecordiiig to
gencral ivimiti  p8l;mnns, bIu li    al lm u litnm  5 ,iJI()  Il
C)   NVI.111 all cqivalinil parclel 4)  lad  ill tI             l istiStic zxmicS, accolding  to) fneurl
legLa|iintui  jI11is, billlo( i tio mn;e thll ,n >),f             111
. 'i'e iclninaillniie, flor(loli, 1l0   iv (il(  ".i" "  lt" "C " Wvill le ctlilipCiisenslt  aicordiig  to oflier
iwehllods establih!id  11, iIllis law.
T'Ihe (  m.nC(l  ii' idifliSie!d  1P1S;1  ;I!Iii4 ily, 110 i il'  I(i4iC le demaile(l rtiles fOr Imei(hodls
anl (ldCa(l i!les ol'.sich  comllpcIsatil u.
A I icl'l 17'5
AIrlickC  i I lis IICCII rICla':l  I I' I  H1'  ir' ( mIII'miiliimlliaI (.tml l)ccisioni  11(. 4, (Idtc
94         4 nt .
Ion' ~,,, ,   I><,(,V  r n,,,,u,, inn.  ,!tttl! I'opeSrt{tiv       '1                              Je ,{tI'ueAlnia l awf ?enmnl



,XIt /i(l(  lB1
Ilie  Follo,winig lplrsolv.  all' (;'%(C1,Idt-d  fi 4)lif   tiilie   of O(Wll C!Sliil) of sho ps, balls,
restalurailts, dc.:
- illosc w11) hlive  ui iVia          l     Illuil 1 sh1ops ill 111 illega;l Inilc(I: )d;
*IlIosIIe Vl     ;I Ve Clin lia IgeCd  Ill Ils      I of, sho js,ll Co)IIIaIdictio) wilih provisions ill
force;
- tho^0c whio  have (lo( cas   ictd olit ally actlivity  for six  iiioiitm           s bgcginning fromtit(ie
limnc r; tlc privatiization of lit  shop.
Ill tiiis cases, (lie (oricev  (YwIfltIC  ofric lil bilildi g site, oil wliicl  Ille shiolp  is lecacld,
II-Is Ihic righlt to li clnlic the oweIr ol' thlc shop, accordting to provisions iii roi-ce.
'    Nat ioIIaII 'rivalirai ioti A)!c ncy aId(l local goverInmiicint instiLtiliomms have autliority
to  implclloCrit tilis article.
Ai'icle' 19"
Thle' ailimilIit (oF Iuilocclit1icil lIil-iillg  siiCS, whYich ivill be restitiiCtd to  lormer ownlers,
%'Iicii stiulh lilloccuIpied  )lIdin'   ail w, alt IWll(dwl Vitli                ll i) dari(olaieS  of CilitaS and  (oIiistiC
ziilles, HcC Oidillt   i) lo  I-C ilai  lm    laI p ims ;lgipprvedl af dicli  elxl;    ive (datie of th i! law, will be as
follows:
- itir ImliItIiIIng sitcs, 5,0)0 11jt'. ;mdfir  (t ; iher poiion wvill be comllp)Cliv;atcdl accordling
lIo IimlClO(ds Ct1slJlisIIC(I by  111;!; finaV
- hnr airividitrat  land, 5,1 fl)l) ', alld iil otielr por lioll vill b)c Coilmpuelstc(l
accord ilig Io law  ilo. T09( ), "I or             ii  li wnsadliiilj' ft i0re icr  ers I lie value of agriclltural
'I';IC Colilm(il of' M'illi.steu '; hs midimioi ily 10 isSfc dtaliled i-tiles to  imilljlellmenit tilis
aitilde.
A a  iHe 20
A  It'rmiicr oWior ol fl l?uildiilt', Silo, oil whlChI one of, two sIlOCy  Sltate lit'llsig have
lbCtll ColSti l11ctcd, haS  tie e   iglif ofi co-twiicrshipi1  lor the blildhiig Site.  WI ICei IIICIe arC oeIC
Storey billd ligs, (lie joi;It owuiusip W;ll will I itlt   l;e io of 1:2; w eicin  thuee llrc two storcy
iti  gs, the jfic oim        I owilIIshipi will        in  IIe ratio} oh,  1:3.   li 1)olh cases, the  formiler owIIer
ImIlS Iie r-ir;!I 1it  conglStirIA alwiinr IIO(?r oVCI tIle exisingII  housing, whiile ;ll fulrtlher cliaIigeS
will le  miadl. av('ordillg to lhv "For joint ownirship of houising.'
An  1e 21'3
IDlilill,>  tllvir   .cc    II(0 ol111, piPivx.llt,:li,ll, torilill owlirrS hlav'e  ith  rivit. ofl     1 iist  r1ifsal
of slate  lncilitfici, that have cbe   lilt till ilieir lbltildilij  SitCS, agtiictlifural (or nIon1-agJiiiltilrn!
laud, Such  as show', Slow  liltist-;,   o w            il:ot io   ( 'cit.  Thl  selIi iig price in  ihe,se cases is
(lc iiicl ßitac(cohdillp, II) plOViSitllS  ill ImIc,
ix4111 /6-9),Y    erX,



Arflicle 221
Inslifutitons, witilict* reistrr imiiovabilc pirolelly, (il Ihc 1)asil or tie orlicial
doctimeiils suhtimit 10(1 I)y lorlilie   mviwr!;, IhaVe atIljorily to iroceeml  for i'ccog0 tiziiig (lie
owitersliti) JaccoI(Idting to prOViSiOIis OF llhis law.  Whell sieiSlc   dlomilellits are fbi   avallal6le,
ownersih ip  is liroved throtigdi a   oii  ( dcisicii io   Ilic lirmr.ace of tlie oppi)sitioil party.
Requests I-r recceivieily ownertsip i iiuist he subim il tel wiltlin  31, Auguist, 1994.
oa lritier ownier, fo  jislilitaiple camses, dlocs 1101 kiilw  (lie deadlinc, lie lias thc riglit
lo) sCt aillnio er deadline  Ilrouhtll  the coml i.
A.i Iit'li' 23
Pfrepl)Cfics (11        1 0iili1I' Linlg,  1141 d lmreiiti or johil volentu re comiplanics are itet subject of
this law.
Art ic le 2,11''
'I     mH iot !ow  i i  I persoIlS do( 11m( hviei.ril I-i-oil illis lawv:
- foritier COtlil)OrlatoS of' Nazi-t-tcist oCctpiers for l)iopgerly tliey gaindC( I tirilng thle
war, after ilhc Cassat;oni Coulrt will revie w  tlhcir files, a.i(i will (lcfiuie tlhcmi as collaborators;
- Ferinier Ica(lers of the (w  i;ommunikiist l'arty, or ( Goverilment, lor prolerty tilcy gained
is a CoISCIqCInCC ol atuisil, ti         h 1W ott o icial lIoSit ioni, whlflh imiust le provedl with a co trt
dccisioiu;
- P)erSfllS (OivieViC(C Fl  O saI'  li   Il d w  nalioIInt lpro)perty  ill lilgc aliloillo  aI     t li e
Mi,easure i liC t is  cqItill wili  ilte tilipaid (hddiltlages, as (lcttile(d by 111e couitt (ICCisioil.
Article 25
The ':alte (omll lillece tr ResI ittitim ig  lh(l (m)d C        J)episalilng loriner O(wn;er Property  is
created at ilaCied to the Comticil  of   Ii iist ers lor verifyhigt, claimuis of lormiier owniers, wlIicli
claims have .lw tfoitiu(i solli(loll by ihis lmw.
A  il icle   6
A\ spceci.al Liv,' sc!s ftle |"vie (I1 11w  buildingi sile.
Auithiv 27
In all  cases dclill'ed11   t lry  lhi; hrw, Ow  ilIll(imll ilttlex will he Calculated I(t file !ililc this
law  collies i1i)) folce.
\, si t} ide7/a'" '6
("i'lnirclutle (d soli   hwvS I,ve tli, I ipli  o1 allpeal tos tlic disn ic(t coutrt a (de'LMI' If o   itic
Clonimlll,  I'll'  iemilillitig aIn   Comcl                                                 lie'll Alllg 1 Iu'M  'pi 1),tOwnrs.
b'lt, 7698.{'''' '''i'' '{/ 'l                                 1                            17te At1h(mm Iiv 1(cpO fflsll



'ltle Co'.)UI IC'tStOtll in Iit is I.lSt. iS lIt)yaCatd  IC'Ol dilig to procedurIC' (Ie(ilCti by tlie
Civil 1r-oce(dtul ('-Code.
A I 1 cilt! 211
'I'lic Coullil .,of Iiinistcis willhiii owwc ii ionii  lto J) i ic efl'cclive (latc ol' fhis law  is
aIIIhlorize(I to i.;lsuc iieceSsary Sliblog:'JI I acts' and lo inike all nicasuircs to inpl!eeiciit t;is taw.
iA Hit'le' 2'J
All p,IovisiolIs tllat t'onlrlwa'ict tiiis l,wv ;Ic repealcrl.
A\rticle 30
'I'llis law comries iinto mlice 'll) di;iys ;'Iff'r p)(bic'don.
P'riiclttiliCdl 1vil1  Eli-(cr'ee 111. S I5, t!:I((! 16.4. 19).p tr filc I Prs;('den   rc IfIIC
l(ciliblllic, Salli Ieilx
£hn'li&to,a li,a+v.n    11V, w98dl .    , 15  .1 I 993
Act CIWIge.id:                                                        Act changed 1'p:
7Law  7698  1993  Art. I           Chaii"ecs tO article        Lawv  7916  1995  Art. I
'1 aw  76913 1993  Art.3           ('Thaingels In artic-le     Law  7910  1995  Art.2
6Law  7698  1993  Art.3            Ch"1awwgcss li a'Iicie      Law  /1879  1991  Art. I
l,!iw  7696  1993  Artl.3        (Cllilwes lo article         Law   7736  1993  Art. i
9lWaw  7698  1993  Art.4I    (Cli;mics lo article               Law  791(i [1995  Art.3
I∞liwv 7698  1993  Art.5           (lcbwnes to art icle        Law  7916  1995  Art,4
"Law 7698  1993  Art. II    Chalipengs to arlticle             L taw  7916  1995  Art.5
4ILaw   7698 1993  Art. 12/p I I'iag r. dclectd               Colurt    4  1994  Jirigemetit
I lecisionl
'laiw  7698  1993  Art. 17    Cl1;11ges to arlicle            law   7736  1993  Art.2
5Law  7698  1993  A rt. 17         Ai ile deleted             Court    4  1994  Ji!dgewinlt
DIccisin
"Law 7698  1993  Art. I19    Changes to arlicle                Law  17916  1995  Art.6
'1Law  7698  1993  Arl.21    l('Iwawigs 1(t artficle           La;w  79116  1995  Ai t.7
31.iw  7691  1(993  Art.22         Chaungcs tw arficle         Law  7765  1993  Art. I
"'Iaw  7698  1993  Art. 24    (Changes inl articc             Law  79 1 6  1995  Art.8
"Law  7698  19)93  Avt.27/a  Aie lc addied                     1-:l :v 7'91 6  1995  Ai f.9
"'I aw 709%  1993  Art. 27/a   llmvr a       i. dcleted          ol'wiit    9  1995  .1 tdlgcmeiet
DIo, iiJ'll
ftil, [tulpesil.li p opeR,{{{ttk,} lf,/{wyt          -71-                     '17je, ,.11mi,t Ij,     urp, 1{-if./



