Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2888 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(National Roads Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 17, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2888 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1996, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Italy (GOI) a 
loan (the GOI Loan) in an amount of fourteen billion five hundred million Italian Lire 
(ITL 14,500,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the GOI Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and GOI; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part to this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Executive Secretariat" means the Executive Secretariat of the PIU (as 
hereinafter defined) responsible for the day to day implementation of the Project;
(b)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which commences on 
January 1 in each calendar year;
(c)
"GRD" means the General Roads Directorate of the Borrower under MCT (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(d)
"Implementation Plan" means the Borrower's implementation plan dated May 
10, 1996 agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association setting forth a series of 
actions for the implementation of the Project;
(e)
"MCT" means the Ministry of Construction and Tourism of the Borrower;
 
(f)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit within GRD; 
 
(g)
"Project Coordinator" means the project coordinator in the Executive 
Secretariat of the PIU responsible for the monitoring of progress, quality and 
financial performance of the Project;
(h)
"RRDs" mean the Regional Roads Directorates of the Borrower under GRD;
 
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
"The Organization and Management Study" means the study carried out by 
the Borrower under the Rural Roads Project (Credit Number 2732 ALB).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  3
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2006 and ending May 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through GRD and RRDs with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the Implementation Plan with due diligence and efficiency;
 
(b)
not later than December 31, 1997 undertake jointly with the Association a 
review on the progress achieved in carrying out the said Plan and the measures 
recommended to further such progress; and
(c)
thereafter implement all such measures as are required to ensure the 
achievement of the objectives of the Implementation Plan, taking into consideration 
the Association's views on the
matter.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1997, complete the Organization and 
Management Study in accordance with the modified terms of reference agreed with the 
Association which include the preparation of an action plan comprising a series of 
administrative, financial, investment, and policy actions to improve the 
administration and maintenance of secondary and tertiary roads as well as investment 
plans pertaining thereto;
(b)
promptly after the completion of said study, furnish to the Association 
for its review and comments a copy of the findings and recommendations thereof 
including the proposed action plan; and 
(c)
taking into account the comments of the Association on the aforementioned 
findings, recommendations, and action plan, carry out the action plan and implement 
such recommendations as shall have been agreed with the Association.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall maintain the PIU and its Executive 
Secretariat, including the Project Coordinator, with staff, resources and functions  
acceptable to the Association to coordinate and supervise the carrying out of the 
Project and the procurement of works, goods and services thereunder. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
Page  5
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall consult with the Association on its national 
roads investment plan annually, and shall only undertake national roads investments 
greater than the equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000) in value that have an 
economic rate of return not less than twelve percent (12%), as calculated in 
accordance with a generally accepted methodology.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)
beginning January 1, 1997, provide the equivalent of six million dollars 
($6,000,000) on an annual basis to GRD for road maintenance;
(b)
beginning January 1, 1998, provide adequate road maintenance budget for 
secondary and tertiary roads;
(c)
allocate road funds first to maintenance and thereafter to other road 
expenditures; and
(d)
consult annually with the Association in connection with its road 
maintenance budget.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
The GOI Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by January 
31, 1997 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
GOI Loan shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the GOI Loan 
Agreement, or
(B)
the GOI Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
Page  6
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under the GOI Loan Agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of 
paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that consultants with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association have been employed for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the 
carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project; and 
(b)
that the Project Coordinator has been appointed. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
ALBANIA
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent     to be Financed
(1) Works                  11,770,000         80%
(2) Goods                   3,600,000         100% of foreign
                                              expenditures,
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures (ex-
                                              factory cost) and
                                              80% of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items
                                              procured locally
(3) Consultants' services
    under Part C of the
    Project for:
    (a) Supervision of        690,000           100%
        road works
    (b) Project coordination  550,000           100%
    (c) Technical assistance  140,000           100%
        and training for GRD
        and RRDs staff
(4) Unallocated               650,000
      TOTAL                17,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  8
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
140,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after May 1, 1996.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods of $50,000 
equivalent or less, and for services of consulting firms and individuals under 
contracts up to $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent respectively, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) meet the expected growth of traffic by 
rehabilitating and constructing national roads; (ii) improve the maintenance and 
safety of national roads; (iii) promote the development of the local contracting and 
consulting industries; and (iv) train GRD and RRDs' staff and develop cooperation 
between GRD's staff and the University of Tirana.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and construction of about 90 km of national roads.
Part B:
Provision of equipment and material for road maintenance, road safety and 
signalization.
Part C:
Provision of consultants' services to assist in the development of expertise 
for:
1.
supervision of road works implemented under the Project;
 
2.
establishment of a road data bank, pavement management system and bridge 
management system;
3.
project coordination; and
 
4.
improving GRDs' and RRDs' Project implementation capabilities, management and 
engineering techniques and fostering collaboration with local contractors, consultants 
and University of Tirana.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  9
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent each or more.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods for vertical and horizontal signalization estimated to cost up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent percontract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for: (a) works; and (b) goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  10
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
Page  11
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  12
