                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 26568

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-28880)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR17.4 MILLION (US$25.0 MILLION)

                                           TO THE

                                          ALBANIA

                                           FOR A

                                 NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT




                                       December 16, 2003




Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
 South East Europe Country Unit
 Europe and Central Asia Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective August 15, 2003)

                   Currency Unit = LEK
                            LEK1 = US$ 0.00845
                            US$ 1 = LEK118.3
          (Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, May 1996)

                        LEK1 = US$0.00958
                         US$1 = LEK104.4
                          FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 to December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     -    Country Assistance Strategy Paper of March 1994
DRD     -    District Road Directorate
EBRD    -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR     -    economic rate of return
ERRP    -    Emergency Road Repair Project
EU      -    European Union
        -    Euro (currency)
GoA     -    Government of Albania
GoI     -    Government of Italy
GDP     -    gross domestic product
GNP     -    gross national product
GRD     -    General Roads Directorate
HDM     -    Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICB     -    international competitive bidding
IDA     -    International Development Association
ICR     -    Implementation Completion Report
IFIs    -    International Financing Institutions
IRI     -    international roughness index
KF      -    Kuwait Fund
m       -    meter (metric system)
MoCT    -    Ministry of Construction and Tourism
MoF     -    Ministry of Finance
MoT     -    Ministry of Transport
NBF     -    Not Bank Financed
NPV     -    net present value
NRSC    -    National Road Safety Council
PC      -    Project Coordinator
PIP     -    1996-1998 Public Investment Plan              -
PIU     -    Project Implementation Unit
QAG     -    Quality Assurance Group
RMP     -    Road Maintenance Project
RRD     -    Regional Roads Directorate

sq km         -      square kilometer (metric system)
TA            -      technical assistance
TEN           -      Trans-European Network
TOR           -      terms of reference
UT            -      University of Tirana
voc           -      vehicle operating costs
vpd           -      vehicles per day



                          Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
               Country Manager/Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECC04
                Sector Manager/Director:      Eva Molnar, ECSIE
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Cesar Queiroz/Olivier Le Ber, ECSIE

                                                 ALBANIA
                      National Roads Project Implementation Completion Report


                                                CONTENTS




                                                                                               Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                                 1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                                1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                      2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                         3
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                           8
    6. Sustainability                                                                             10
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                              10
    8. Lessons Learned                                                                            12
    9. Partner Comments                                                                           13
    10. Additional Information                                                                    14
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                          15
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                          19
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                          21
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                          24
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                          25
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                             26
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                         27
    Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                              28
    Annex 9. Analyses of : (i) Road and Bridge Costs; (ii) Generation of Employment, and          42
                 its Impact on Alleviation of Poverty; and (iii) Economic Impact of the Project




Maps: IBRD 27624R - Project (Road) Sections
      IBRD 27625R - Roughness in the Road Network
      IBRD 27626R - Traffic Survey
      IBRD 27800R - Road Network under Administration of GRD

Project ID: P036060                                                  Project Name: National Roads
Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz                                           TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: National Roads                                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-28880
    Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                           Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

         Sector/subsector: Roads & highways (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (S); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S); Public expenditure, financial management and
                            procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
            PCD: 07/20/1994                                    Effective: 10/15/1996                01/06/1997
      Appraisal: 02/12/1996                                        MTR:
       Approval: 06/20/1996                                     Closing: 06/30/2001                 05/31/2003



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/GENERAL ROADS DIRECTORATE-MIN. OF
                                           CONSTRUCTION AND TOURISM
                      Other Partners:      EBRD - Government of Italy - Kuwait Fund - PHARE (EU)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:                 Eva Molnar                                     Hans Apitz
Team Leader at ICR:             Cesar Queiroz - Olivier Le Ber                 Luis Revuelta
ICR Primary Author:             Luis Revuelta


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
             Borrower Performance:         S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
There was no Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment of the Project since the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not
exist at the time.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

          The main objectives of the Project were to: (i) overcome a key infrastructure bottleneck to
economic development by rehabilitating and constructing national roads; (ii) improve the maintenance and
safety of national roads; (iii) promote the development of the local contracting and consulting industries;
and (iv) train the staff of the General Roads Directorate (GRD), and develop strong cooperation between
GRD's staff and activities, and the University of Tirana (UT).

          The proposed Project was based on the main priority needs established by GRD's 1996-1998
Public Investment Plan (PIP) and the aim was to foster a national institutional and managerial improvement
of the road sector. The Project focused on three main topics: (i) rehabilitation and construction of
national roads, including the improvement of important strategic connections between Albania and its
neighboring countries; (ii) investment in road maintenance and safety equipment, including acquisition
of basic road maintenance equipment. In addition, the urgently needed improvement of road safety would
be achieved through acquisition of specific equipment such as police vehicles and speed control radar; and
(iii) institutional operations, would be introduced for the first time in Albania covering road
administration, management and budgeting. In addition, training of the Roads' Departments executive staff
in the management and modernization of the road sector.

          The objectives of the Project were clear and realistic: to achieve a faster, safer and less expensive
transportation of people and goods. For the road sector, the objectives were to promote the development of
the domestic construction and consulting industries through involvement in large-scale road construction
contracts. For the institutions, the objectives were to introduce administrative and management systems
which would assist in producing systematic and timely statistics on the national road network and traffic
conditions and used for daily administration of the network. The Project supported the March 1994
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Albania objectives by rehabilitating and expanding the transport
system, which had deteriorated to the point where it constituted a major impediment to private sector
development, as well as to foreign direct investment. Project complexity was significant because of the
numerous donors involved in its financing and implementation: IDA, Government of Italy (GoI), Kuwait
Fund (KF), PHARE, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD).

          There were significant project risks due to the politically and economically weak situation of
Albania. These raised concerns about provision of sufficient counterpart funds and continued commitment
to institutional reforms to administer and maintain the roads. However, the risks were clarified and
discussed, and mitigation measures were agreed to during negotiations and monitored during
implementation. There were two events, which could not have been anticipated at the time of appraisal,
which affected implementation: the spread of civil unrest in Albania following the failure of the pyramid
schemes in 1997, and the Kosovo war in 1999. Also, the difficulties experienced under the parallel
financing process affected the implementation of the Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

          The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The components were:



                                                      - 2 -

(i)   Rehabilitation of 90.1 km of national roads in the East-West and Northern corridors (US$45.0 million
      and US$50.5 million, without and including contingencies, respectively);
(ii) Provision of road maintenance and safety equipment (US$7.0 million and US$8.4 million);
(iii) Supervision of works (US$1.4 million and US$1.8 million);
(iv) Establishment of a Road Data Bank, a Pavement Management System, and a Bridge Management
      System (US$2.0 million and US$2.4 million); and
(v) Employment of consultants to coordinate the Project, and for technical assistance (TA) and to train
      GRD and Regional Roads Directorates (RRD) executive staff in the management and modernization
      of the road sector, including collaboration with the UT, Faculty of Civil Engineering (US$2.3 million
      and US$2.9 million).

         The total Project cost was US$66.0 million including contingencies. It was to be financed
(parallel financing) by IDA through a Credit of SDR17.4 million (US$25.0 million equivalent, or 37.9%
of the Project estimated cost), by loans from the GoI (US$9.0 million equivalent or 13.6%), EBRD
(US$12.0 million equivalent or 18.2%), and KF (US$8.0 million equivalent or 12.1%), and by a grant
from PHARE (US$7.0 million equivalent - US$3.0 million for Road Safety, and US$4.0 million for TA
and training components - or 10.6% of the Project estimated cost). The Government of Albania (GoA)
would contribute, exclusively in local costs, with US$5.0 million equivalent or 7.6% of the Project cost,
equivalent to a US$1.0 million annual amount, estimated to be the maximum affordable under the national
budget economic conditions, during the 1997-2001 disbursement period.

         The design of the Project was properly related to achieving its objectives and it was well suited to
the administrative and financial capacity of the implementing agency, the GRD. Because of the significant
complexity of the Project implementation with five financiers, the Project put special emphasis on the
appointment of a Project Coordinator (PC) as a condition of Credit Effectiveness. Project components were
selected based on the main priority needs established by the GRD's 1996-1998 PIP.

3.4 Revised Components:

         The components were not revised. However, the first component was increased in scope to
complete an unfinished road scheme left over from the "First Transport Project" due to the civil unrest
during early 1997. The scheme was designated "Fushë Krujë-Mamurasi Civil Works Contract". The
scheme length was 12.2 km, which increased the total length of national roads to be improved to 102.3 km.
The PHARE component did not materialize, and the GoI, KF, and EBRD components experienced (see
4.2i-iv-v) implementation delays.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         Satisfactory. The objectives were consistent with the objectives of the CAS and GoA priorities.
The quality of the design was appropriate for a country emerging from a fully centrally planned economy,
and consistent with the western European roads standards. The preparation took into account the Bank's
safeguard policies with special relevance to environmental and safety considerations. The economic
analysis was done competently, and the final results of the Project are consistent, although significantly
reduced, with those forecast at appraisal.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:




                                                     - 3 -

         The outcome of the Project is satisfactory although not all the objectives (mainly improvement of
Maintenance and Safety, and TA to and Training of GRD staff) were fully met. The qualifications that
follow should be seen against the perspective that Albania was one of the most isolated ­ economically,
politically, socially and culturally ­ countries in the world, with a centralized system of government and
management, and rudimentary institutions, as well as two critical events which occurred during Project
implementation (i.e., civil unrest resulting from the collapse of the pyramid scheme in 1997-98, and the
Kosovo crisis in 1999).

(i)      The overcoming of a key infrastructure bottleneck to economic development by rehabilitating
and constructing national roads has been substantially achieved with the improvement of 64.5 km
which include the whole IDA-financed component of 45.2 km (see 4.2i and Annex 1). Out of the
originally programmed 90.1 km, the four remaining road works contracts are financed by other donors.
Qukes-Qafe Thane, and Tapiza-Fushë Krujë contracts are under advanced construction. Elbasan bypass,
and Elbasan-Librazhd contracts started in mid-2003, and will be completed in mid-2005, about four years
after the original June 30, 2001 Credit closing date.

(ii)     The improvement of the maintenance and safety of the national roads has been partially
achieved. The construction of new roads, and the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing roads have
improved the ride quality for traffic, and together with the reconstruction of improved junctions with better
visibility have made the road network safer. Also, the establishment of the National Road Safety Council
(NRSC) represents an essential institutional step forward for the improvement of the road safety in
Albania. However, PHARE funds for road safety equipment did not materialize, and the procurement of the
road maintenance equipment (including an important nation-wide radio communication system) was
significantly reduced from the initial Project design. Consequently, Project's contribution to the
improvement of road maintenance and road safety (see 4.2ii and Annex 1) was lower than anticipated at
appraisal.

(iii)    The development of the local contracting and consulting industries has been achieved. Because
of the size and nature of the road contracts, the procurement of contractors for each contract was required
to be undertaken under international competitive bidding (ICB). Due to the lack of local capacity, no
local contractors were pre-qualified for ICB and thus, in every case, international contractors were
appointed. However, the international contractors have engaged local contractors (see Annex 1) who were
responsible for carrying out specific works under advice of the international contractors (and supervision of
the international consultant) in the planning, management, administration and execution of the works.

         The Project required the engagement of an international consulting team for supervision of the
works. This was considered necessary given the significant investment involved in the road contracts and
the increasing but still limited experience of GRD staff and local consultants in supervision. However, the
international supervision consultant (see 4.2iii and Annex 1) has engaged many local engineers, economists,
and technicians as its support staff. Therefore, the Project significantly assisted technically, financially, and
managerially, in promoting the development of the local contracting and consulting industries through
companies and personnel gaining considerable experience in construction and supervision of major road
contracts. These companies are now prepared for contracts under NCB (national competitive bidding), as
shown under the ongoing Emergency Road Repair Project, and under the Road Maintenance Project.

(iv)     The TA to and training of the GRD's staff, and the development of a strong cooperation
between GRD's staff and activities and the UT have not been achieved. The engagement of consultants



                                                       - 4 -

to undertake an extensive TA and training program was foreseen to be funded through a PHARE grant.
However, no PHARE grant was provided for this purpose. Only minor action took place relating to this
objective, e.g., some training (attendance to seminars) provided by IDA to GRD, and the initiation of the
Road Data Bank separately financed by Sweden (see 4.2iv), a source of funding that was not originally
anticipated under the Project. The completion of this Road Data Bank, essential for the precise location of
improvements under the road safety and road maintenance programs, is taking place under the ongoing
IDA Road Maintenance Project.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(i)      Civil Works on 90.1 km of National Roads in the Northern and East-West Corridors
(US$45.0 million; US$50.5 million including contingencies):

         The original number of civil works (new construction, reconstruction, and rehabilitation: 90.1 km)
contracts was six. To this scheme, the Project added the 12.2-km Fushë Krujë-Mamurasi contract
unfinished under the First Transport Project, and divided the Elbasan-Librazhd (30.5 km) contract into two
contracts: Elbasan bypass (8.0 km), and Elbasan-Librazhd road section (22.5 km), eventually eight
contracts (see Map IBRD 27624R). The three IDA-financed works contracts (Fushë Krujë-Mamurasi,
12.2 km, US$2.0 million, and the new Miloti -Lezhë road, 12.0 km, US$5.8 million, in the Northern
Corridor; and Librazhd-Qukes, 21.0 km, US$16.8 million, in the East-West Corridor) have been completed
at a total cost of US$24.6 million, improving 45.2 km of the national road network. This means a 100%
accomplishment for the IDA financed component.

         Other donors have provided funding for the other five civil works contracts, of which 19.3 km are
currently open to traffic (Annex 1). The completed new Matit, 650-m long, and Drinit, 200-m long, river
bridges (cost: US$6.7 million) contract, in the 12.0 km Miloti-Lezhë section, and the ongoing 7.0 km
Tapiza-Fushë Krujë (estimated cost: US$1.7 million) road contract, are financed by GoI; and the
ongoing Qukes-Qafe Thane, 19.6 km, the easternmost Albanian section of the East-West Corridor, is
financed by KF (estimated cost: US$10.2 million). When completed by end-2003 would have improved a
further 26.6 km of the national road network. The last two contracts, Elbasan bypass (8.0 km; estimated
cost: US$6.5 million), and Elbasan- Librazhd (22.5 km; estimated cost: US$16.1 million), both in the
East-West Corridor, and financed by GoI and EBRD respectively, started construction in mid 2003 and,
when completed in 2005, would have improved a further 30.5 km of the national road network.

         Therefore when all the donor-funded contracts are completed by mid 2005, a total of 102.3 km of
the national road network should have been improved at a total estimated cost of US$65.8 million (90.1 km
and US$63.8 million, if excluded the US$2.0 million added contract) This is significantly higher than the
appraisal estimate of US$50.5 million cost, and a main consequence of the delays in providing
co-financiers' funds. The GoA increasing their counterpart funding by US$1.8 million equivalent, together
with an increase of funds provided by two of the other donors will cover this increase in investment.

         The works, along with their main benefits showed in the cost/benefit analysis (see 4.3), have
generated 2,100 job-years up to June 2003, according to a regular assessment and reporting of the
supervision team after contacting every contractor. Eventually, when the remaining contracts are
completed, the estimated US$65.8 million investment in the Project roads works will have generated about
3,800 job-years during the eight-year implementation period (mid-1997 through mid-2005). With an
average daily salary of US$6 equivalent (and 275 working days per year) this amounts to a direct net
transfer of about US$6.3 million - or 9.6% of the whole investment - to the poorest strata of the Albanian
society (Annex 9, section 2). It also implies a significant impact against poverty on the Project area.


                                                      - 5 -

(ii)     Provision of Equipment and Materials for Road Maintenance, Road Safety and Signalization
(US$7.0 million; US$8.4 million including contingencies):

         Twenty contracts for procurement of goods have been completed with a total value of US$2.47
million funded by the IDA. From these, nine contracts totalling US$2.20 million provided equipment for
use in road maintenance. The contracts included provision of excavators, road rollers, road-marking
equipment, laboratory testing equipment, vehicle counters and portable vehicle-weighing equipment. Six
contracts totalling US$0.24 million provided equipment to improve road safety. The main component was
the purchase of seventeen vehicles for use by the National Traffic Police. The remaining contracts
(US$30,000) have provided essential office equipment for both the GRD and the Police. This included the
installation of a new telephone system for the GRD offices.

         A radio communication system for nation-wide coordination of the maintenance system and
permanent contact with the GRD's headquarters at Tiranë, which should have been established within the
Project, was not acquired. The procurement procedure commenced but was cancelled due to the excessive
cost of the system, as well as progress in the mobile telephony. The savings in this component were
reassigned to road works.

         The EU never ratified US$3.0 million for goods which was due to be donated by PHARE within a
US$7.0 million grant. Therefore the intended procurement of much needed safety equipment such as speed
control radar, testers for alcohol (breath analyzers), lights and warning equipment and special clothes for
the traffic police was not completed. Similarly, the intended procurement of vertical and horizontal
signalization was also deleted from the Project, although some marking equipment was procured under the
maintenance contracts. This was taken into account and added to the design of the Road Maintenance
Project approved in June 2002.

(iii)    Supervision of Road Works (US$1.4 million; US$1.8 million including contingencies):

         The Project was based on the employment of an international consulting team with experience in
design and supervision of works. The team included a Chief Resident Engineer with experience in roads
and conventional bridges and responsible for the total supervision component, an additional Resident
Engineer, and a Materials Engineer. The IDA funded contract had to be extended up to December 31,
2002, and May 31, 2003, to provide supervision cover for the contracts which had overrun, and for those
delayed by other donor funding. This extended supervision implied an additional cost of US$230,000 over
the IDA credit contribution (US$1.5 million) for supervision, and it was financed through a GoI's grant,
approved on January 7, 2003, and delivered through the Italian Consultant Trust Fund at the Bank. The
US$1.7 million supervision cost amounts to 4.2% of the US$40.7 million equivalent certified works, and
compares with the 3% estimated at appraisal.

         The EBRD funded part of this component was separated from the IDA funds because its
implementation delays would not allow the use of the same supervision consultant procured under the IDA
part. Therefore a separate international consultant was appointed for the design and supervision of the
EBRD funded works contract. The design process, including tender document preparation, was funded by
the reduced PHARE grant. Supervision under a different team and contract, and the above-mentioned delay
of the works would more than double the total cost of supervision in the Project from that estimated
(US$1.4 million) at appraisal.

(iv)     Establishment of a Road Data Bank, a Pavement Management System and a Bridge


                                                      - 6 -

Management System (US$2.0 million; US$2.4 million including contingencies):

         All of the items within this component should have been funded through the EU (PHARE) grant.
However during the Project in 1998, the EU informed that the agreement to provide the PHARE funds was
never ratified. The EU (PHARE) eventually provided 0.45 million, which was made available for road
safety. However, as mentioned above, it was finally agreed to use the grant for the design and supervision
of the EBRD funded contract. Therefore, none of this component was undertaken due to lack of any
original funding. Eventually, the Borrower was able to find some partial alternative. Through an 135,000
grant provided by Sweden, it started the preparation of a nationwide Road Data Bank, the completion of
which should be financed under the ongoing Road Maintenance Project.

(v)      Employment of consultants to coordinate the Project, and of TA to train GRD and RRD
executive staff in the management and modernization of the road sector, including collaboration with
the UT (US$2.3 million; US$2.9 million including contingencies):

         Since the Project included numerous works sites, contractors and consultants, and difficult
questions of road management and administration, traffic safety, and environmental issues, it was
considered that successful implementation of the Project required a deep and consistent coordination among
all the Project components. Therefore, financed under IDA Credit, a Project Coordinator (PC) with
experience in contract management and procurement was appointed. The PC has provided a single channel
of coordination for the Project. Initially the PC prepared and coordinated the physical implementation of the
Project, focusing on the pre-qualification and bidding processes for road works contractors. The PC also
had the important responsibility to ensure that the funds provided were utilized so as to maintain the proper
balance between Project beneficiaries and maximizing overall benefits. The PC, working through the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), was responsible for liaison between the GRD, other GoA ministries, the
IDA and other Project financiers.

         The appointment of teams of international consultants to undertake TA and training of the GRD
and RRD executive staff was not implemented. The reason for this is that the component was to be funded
through the PHARE grant. However, as reported earlier, the PHARE grant was reduced and therefore there
were insufficient funds to undertake this part of the Project.

         The contacts and collaboration with the UT were supposed to take place on a regular basis in order
to provide practical experience to the UT students of Civil Engineering but they could not materialize due
to lack of financing. France, sponsored by the Project, financed a one-week Soils Technology seminar for
ten UT students and five of GRD staff in May 1998. Since the UT hardly can provide any practical
experience to its students, it is important to pursue this goal of TA to the UT, together with the GRD, in the
future.

         International consultants were appointed to provide TA to the GRD by undertaking a Feasibility
Study for the proposed Lezhë ­ Shkodër Road Improvement. This has led to the GoA allocating its own
budgetary funds for the physical construction of the road. The ongoing works contract is about 30%
completed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         Economic re-evaluation has been done for the completed road sections. At appraisal, the economic
rates of return (ERRs) were estimated for the road improvement components which amounted to 79% of
the Project cost. The estimates were based on savings in vehicle operating costs (voc) and road maintenance


                                                       - 7 -

costs. The Project was expected to have other benefits which were difficult to quantify, including improving
the organization and funding of road maintenance, promotion of privatization, reduction in road accidents,
and environmental improvements. Costs and benefits were estimated using the Bank's HDM-III model. At
appraisal (section 4.07 of the Staff Appraisal Report) the road construction and rehabilitation/strengthening
works (90.1 km, including a new 12.0 km road with two important bridges) provided a weighted average
ERR of 30% - varying from 24% to 67% among the road sections - well above the 12% opportunity cost of
capital in Albania, and an NPV of US$45.7 million (or US$507,000 per km).

         After Project completion, the ERRs of the two completed IDA-financed roads were calculated by
the PIU, under the HDM-III and the more precise HDM-IV methodology on the basis of actual
construction costs and of actual (spring 2003) traffic volumes. The HDM-IV ERRs of 12.9% for the 21.0
km Librazhd-Qukes road section, and of 44.5% for the 12.0 km Miloti-Lezhë road section compare with
those at appraisal (24.3% and 43.9%, respectively). The weighted ERR = 31.4% and NPV = US$26.8
million (or US$810,000 per km) of the completed road sections at appraisal compare with their weighted
ERR = 24.4% and NPV = US$20.7 million (or US$630,000 per km) after completion (Annex 3). The
Librazhd-Qukes results (ERR and NPV) reflect the negative impact of the non-realization of the traffic
increase expected once the ongoing reconstruction delays of the East-West Corridor are overcome.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         No financial rates of return were calculated during Project preparation since none of the borrowing
institutions were revenue-producing entities. The appraisal examined the financial impact of GoA's Project
contribution, a total of US$5.0 million equivalent or US$1.0 million per every year of the appraised
five-year 1997-2001 disbursement implementation period (15% of GRD's 1997 annual budget), and found
it acceptable. It also considered the future financial impact of repaying, per semester, the SDR17.4 million
(US$25.0 million equivalent) IDA Credit with a 10-year grace period and a 40-year maturity, and found it
(SDR0.58 million per year or US$0.84 million equivalent per year, less than 0.1% of the 1997 public
national budget) also acceptable. The significant delays in the works of the Matit and Drinit bridge
contracts, and in the Elbasan bypass and Elbasan-Librazhd contracts, imply a sizable escalation of the civil
works costs and would, eventually, increase the appraised cost of the Project from US$66.0 million to
US$72.0 million (Annex 2).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The institutional development impact achieved through the Project is modest. GRD administrative
and managerial ability improved significantly through PIU's change of status (private consultant members,
selected through public competition, instead of regular appointment of public servants) in the Project. The
establishment of the NRSC on January 15, 2002 - not effective until February 2003 due to lack of
operational funds under the Project - permitted, eventually, the start and subsequent enforcement of a
nationwide road safety program. However, the other donor funding which was offered at appraisal stage
but which failed to materialize during implementation of the Project limited the initial institutional targets.
Subsequently, many of the components which would have benefited institutional development had to be
cancelled.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

(i)      The collapse of the pyramid scheme in March 1997 triggered civil unrest, rioting and a general
state of anarchy, which the GoA was unable to control. The Project's TA personnel left Albania for


                                                       - 8 -

approximately two months because of security reasons. Several donor missions were cancelled, which
resulted in the Project being constrained by the absence of Aid Agreements between the other donors and
the GoA. These two months of interruption - mainly interruption on the service of the expatriate staff -
were soon overcome under the IDA financed component but they did affect considerably the start and
implementation schedule of the rest of the Project.

(ii)    There was also civil unrest in September 1998. This time the Miloti-Lezhë works contract was
affected. The Contractor had to abandon the site because the north of the country was much less settled
than the remainder. The Project's TA team was able to remain in Albania during the short period of unrest.
However, once again donor missions were postponed causing delays to the Project.

(iii)   The destabilizing effect of the Kosovo crisis also affected the Project in 1999, as it affected the
whole country. The influx of refugees and military and international humanitarian aid transport travelling
through Albania put additional strain on the national road network. This occurred at a time when
contractors were working on the network resulting in the need for additional traffic management.

(iv)    The periods of civil unrest have partially affected the implementation of the Project. The final
outcome of the IDA Project share has been hardly affected but the final outcome for the whole Project has
been reduced and considerably delayed, especially in relation to the parallel funding from other donors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        The delays in land and property expropriation have partially affected the implementation of the
Project. The contractors suffered delays in gaining possession of the sites. On all the works contracts, the
delays mainly occurred at the commencement of the contract. In some cases, further delays occurred later
in the contract as the contractor progressed along the site. New legislation, and the establishment of an
Expropriation Department within the GRD have now improved the process of land and property
expropriation. In any case, overlapping of the expropriation and construction processes of any Project asset
will frequently imply undesirable changes of design and costly delays, and it should be sternly avoided.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

        The poor quality designs and bills of quantities initially prepared by the domestic design and
supervision consultants for the road improvement schemes was another cause of delays. This was
eventually overcome but it caused delays at the start of the works' contracts when the contractors had to
undertake further considerable design work in order to be able to execute the works. Long deliberations
by the GRD's technical department, when checking and approving the designs, caused the contractors to
suffer delays or else they had to proceed with the construction works at their own risk until approvals were
given. This situation improved significantly through the establishment of an experienced PIU on a private
consultant basis.

5.4 Costs and financing:

        There were some changes in the costs of the Project components (Annex 2). Due to poor initial
designs, many of the works' contract prices were higher than those estimated at appraisal and consequently
the GoA had to increase their counterpart funding, and in two cases (GoI and EBRD), the donors had to
increase their loans. This problem was compounded by the deterioration in the SDR/US$ exchange rate,
which reduced IDA SDR17.4 million financing from US$25.0 million equivalent originally, to about
US$23.0 million equivalent at the end of the Project causing the GoA to further increase the counterpart



                                                     - 9 -

funding. Availability of counterpart funds by the Government was generally satisfactory although not
always on time. However, because international contractors were employed, they were able to proceed
nevertheless. The IDA Project component was delayed by about twelve months at the start of the Project
but then generally followed the anticipated rate of disbursement schedule. The IDA Credit closing date had
to be extended twice until May 31, 2003, due to delays (see 4.2iii) on the supervision of other donor
works.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Sustainability of the Project is likely. The GoA has shown its commitment to improve the
country's national road network, currently allocating about 1.2 percent (which corresponds to an average of
36 countries) of GDP for roads. Such allocation is generally considered adequate to keep up the road
network, provided that most of the roads are in fair to good condition. However, in Albania there is still a
significant proportion of the road network in poor condition. Consequently, external financing is still
required to improve the condition of the country's roads. Two ongoing IDA-financed operations, the
Emergency Road Repair Project (ERRP) and the Road Maintenance Project (RMP), are contributing to
this goal. Given Albania current level of income per capita, its accessibility to concessional aid is phasing
out. Albania's ability to finance increased investments on roads will also depend on the country's capability
to raise revenue collection (currently about 20% of GDP) and sustained growth.

         An indication of Government's commitment to continued improvement of the national road network
is the fact that the GoA is currently funding the construction of the important Lezhë-Shkodër (40.0 km)
road section of the Northern Corridor without external financing.

         Adoption of new procedures to contract out road maintenance by the GRD is providing additional
opportunities to the continued development of newly established road works contractors, while outsourced
design and supervision works is contributing to further development of the consulting firms.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         The transition to regular operations has started successfully, but its completion will obviously take
several more years. During the transition period, the road sector will have to absorb and assimilate the
new market oriented organizations, the incipient and still weak managerial skills and experience in a market
economy, and the use of new technologies and new systems of working, cooperation and competition.
National roads are a substantial asset, and maintenance must be a high priority in order to preserve the
network at the level required by the economy.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         IDA's performance in identifying, preparing and appraising the Project was satisfactory. The
composition of IDA missions was consistent and uniform (Annex 4) and the mission's documentation and
briefings to the GoA and to the other donors (GoI, KF, PHARE and EBRD) were appropriate. The selected
counterpart organization, GRD, was generally competent and motivated to carry out the Project. The
Project was consistent with the Bank's CAS, and the GoA's policy for the transport sector was consistent
with that of the Bank. The appraisal took place under close cooperation and in consultation with the



                                                     - 10 -

Borrower and donors, and there was no evidence of the potential delays and change of plans of the funding
donors. The National Roads Project was a continuation of the IDA financed Transport Project, Credit
2499-ALB. The components of the Project fully supported its objectives.

7.2 Supervision:

         IDA supervision was satisfactory, in view of keeping the Project on track while all other donors
delayed their components. The supervision of the physical and institutional components of the Project met
satisfactory professional standards, although in few cases its Project performance and component ratings
were not consistent. Skill-mix (Annex 4) and continuity of the supervision teams were satisfactory. The few
changes which occurred including the change in Team Leader in late 1998, and occasional changes of local
staff in the Resident Mission, did not affect the quality of supervision.

         The Bank supervision team kept a dialogue with other donors regarding funding for the
establishment of a Road Data Bank, a Pavement Management System, and a Bridge Management System,
looking for some alternative financing but without much success. However, funding from Sweden, out of
the Project, allowed the start of the Road Data Bank. Only sporadic training of the GRD's and RRD's
executive staff in the management of the organizational adjustments required by the Project, and in the
modernization of the road sector was accomplished.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         IDA overall performance was satisfactory for the reasons outlined above. IDA was client
responsive in making changes during Project implementation to adjust to changing circumstances through
timely extensions, reallocation within and between components and flexibility in the procurement
requirements when justified. The concept of Key Performance Indicators (Annex 1) used as a basis of
comparison was developed after the appraisal of the Project, and it was added to the supervision process in
late 1998.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         Project preparation was led by the Bank under an efficient and intense collaboration with and
useful contribution from the GoA, which provided all the required information including their main
priority needs which had been established by the GRD in their 1996-1998 PIP. The advice of the GoA was
also of paramount importance in deciding the other donors interest in financing specific components of the
Project. However the initial designs for the road schemes, which were prepared by consultants closely
linked with the GRD, were quite basic and not fully suited for construction purposes. This led to further
design work having to be undertaken by the contractors, as reported earlier in this report.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

          The GoA's implementation performance was generally satisfactory. However, undue GRD
interference with and obstacles impeding the action of the PIU, before its authority and autonomy were
clearly enforced after December 1999, were cause of delays in procurement and in the day-to-day
decision-making. Counterpart funding was generally satisfactory although on occasions payments to the
contractors were delayed, e.g., in the cost adjustment increases of both Matit and Drinit bridge contracts
financed by the GoI. On balance though, taking account of the GoA's willingness to increase its
contributions to the contracts in order to offset the price increases, and reduction in funds due to the



                                                      - 11 -

SDR/US$ exchange rate, the final outcome of the IDA Project share can be considered satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         The implementing agency was the GRD under the Ministry of Construction and Tourism
(MoCT) where the PIU Board initially took the decisions and ran the day-to-day operations which were
delegated, according to the Credit Agreement, to the PIU established within GRD. Unfortunately, this
delegation was insufficient. There were difficulties after the GRD was transferred to the Ministry of
Transport (MoT) because the PIU chairmanship rotated and also because the GRD was late in getting the
counterpart funds from the Ministry of Finance (MoF). Delegation improved, and significantly helped the
implementation of the Project, after the MoT and GRD agreed on more autonomy for the PIU through
newly hired private members (consultants) and on paying them local market fees.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Overall, given that this was one of the earlier transport projects undertaken in Albania, and in view
of the necessity for the Project to evolve during a difficult period of political (continuous changes of
government authorities), social (civil unrest) and economic (the collapse of the pyramid schemes)
instability, the Project implementation succeeded, and the Borrower performance is assessed to be
satisfactory. The success of the Project, despite the difficult environment in which it was implemented, is a
credit to the Borrower's performance.

8. Lessons Learned

         There are several lessons to be learned from this Project. They include:

(i)      ADMINISTRATION AND COORDINATION OF THE PROJECT. The volatile Albanian
public service and its low-level salaries generated continuous changes in the PIU at the start of the Project,
with subsequent interruptions and damaging consequences in the day-to-day administration and
coordination of the Project (see 7.5 and 7.6). The Project worked out this situation through the
establishment, in December 1999, of a PIU composed of three competent private consultants (former
public officials) selected under public competition, seconded by the expatriate PC, and paid with local
market fees. This decision assured a better administration and a more efficient coordination to the Project.
A lesson learned is to apply this PIU (located within the GRD) system initiated under the Project (and
under the previous Rural Roads Project) to future projects.

(ii)     CO-FINANCING AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCY. Joint financing unifies
the funds and the authority of any project and produces a beneficial synergy of results. The parallel
financing under the Project did not produce the same effect but a de-synergy of the Project investments
resulting from inconsistent approaches of the different parties, and a fragmentation of the Project authority.
A lesson learned is that to achieve the potential benefits of donors' partnership, joint financing should be
sought. An alternative to joint financing could be the establishment - in every parallel financing project - of
a contractual requirement for every donor guaranteeing the provision and delivery of its contribution in
accordance with the appraised Project Implementation Plan.

(iii)    GENERATION OF EMPLOYMENT UNDER THE PROJECT. A main goal of any Bank
project - besides the economic success of the Project investment itself in accordance with the best rules and
practices - is Alleviation of Poverty. The Project monitored this important economic and social aspect since
the start. Consequently, it provides important qualitative and quantitative information (see 4.2i) on how to



                                                     - 12 -

use road investment in the fight against poverty, and on how to relate, in economic and social terms, the
overall economic feasibility of the Project to the viability of alleviating poverty in the Project area. An
important lesson learned for the future is to apply consistently, during project implementation, this
monitoring system. Future comparisons would help to determine which implementation procedure is the
most efficient and appropriate to generate local employment. An assessment of the investment required to
overcome the poverty status of the project area through employment is also possible.

(iv)    LAND EXPROPRIATION. Performing expropriation on a timely and efficient manner is
essential to the success of any project. This is usually out of the project management authority who has to
agree on an expropriation schedule with the Borrower. The untimely expropriation process under the
Project was a cause of delays for the execution of works (see 5.2) . Therefore, a lesson learned under the
Project is not to make effective the provision of funds for any component before all related expropriation
issues have been resolved, so implementation of the component can proceed undisturbed. The recent
establishment of an Expropriation Department within the GRD with guidelines on the expropriation
procedures, is a Project achievement which will facilitate the application of this lesson.

(v)     ROAD SAFETY UNDER THE PROJECT. The Road Safety in Albania is defined and
assessed through an existing Road Safety Study and Program. Part of this Program was a main component
of the Project. It basically consisted of the acquisition of road safety equipment and, very important, of the
establishment and operation of a basic road safety institutional set up. Eventually, in January 2002, the
Project achieved an important institutional goal, the establishment of the NRSC. However, the NRSC - and
subsequently, the Road Safety Program - did not become operational due to lack of funds until a year later,
February 2003 (see 4.5). A lesson learned is that establishment and immediate operational capacity of a
NRSC are required to achieve road safety efficiency, and that initial operational funds should be included
in the Project.

(vi)    PROJECT DATA BANK, PAVEMENT AND BRIDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS. The
establishment and operation of a Road Data Bank, a Road Management System, and a Bridge Management
System, and the provision of TA to GRD and RRDs (see 4.2iv-v) could not take place because of lack of
funding, and no further action was taken until the end of the Project. The establishment of a Road Data
Bank was partially resolved through the separate contribution of Sweden obtained during the last phase of
Project implementation. This satisfactory achievement highly enhances the efforts of the Project
management team since the Road Data Bank, the only system able to verify and locate with precision every
road area of intervention, is essential to the implementation of any road safety and road maintenance
program. It also confirms that a lesson learned under similar circumstances is to contact other traditional
donors informing and persuading them of the importance and urgency of pending Project needs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        The Borrower provided its contribution to the ICR (see Annex 8). The Borrower's comments are
reflected in this ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers:

        No comments have been received from the co-financiers, i.e., EBRD, Kuwait Fund, GoI, and EU
(PHARE).




                                                       - 13 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        There were no other partners.


10. Additional Information

        Analyses of the: (i) Roads and Bridges Costs; (ii) Generation of Employment, and its Impact on the
Alleviation of Poverty; and (iii) Economic Impact of the Project (see Annex 9).




                                                  - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Overcome a key infrastructure bottleneck  S                            Substantially achieved (S).      This key
to the economic development of the Northern                                infrastructure bottleneck - a total of 102.3 km
and Eastern districts of Albania through                                   (originally 90.1 km) of roads in a bad
upgrading of 90.1 km of roads to EU                                        condition, and with an outdated design in the
standards.                                                                 Northern Corridor and in the East-West
                                                                           Corridor (TEN Corridor No. 8) - is being
                                                                           satisfactorily overcome. The roads are being
                                                                           upgraded to modern and uniform design
                                                                           standards, compatible with those of the EU,
                                                                           to support current traffic condition and loads
                                                                           (11.5 tons per single axle). Presently, 64.5
                                                                           km are completed in optimal condition for
                                                                           local, long distance, and international traffic.
                                                                           The remaining 37.8 km are under
                                                                           construction and would be completed by
                                                                           mid-2005. The civil works have generated
                                                                           and are generating a significant amount of
                                                                           employment in the Project area, mostly for
                                                                           unskilled labor, but also for transport
                                                                           professionals (engineers, economists,
                                                                           technicians, and accountants).

(ii) Improve the maintenance, safety, and     S                            Partially achieved (U).    The completion of a
signalization of the national roads through                                share (64.5 km) of the Project civil works
acquisition of maintenance, safety, and                                    contracts has improved significantly the ride
signalization equipment.                                                   and safety quality for traffic, particularly for
                                                                           heavy traffic, with improvement of the road
                                                                           maintenance and road safety in the Northern
                                                                           and East-West Corridors. Also, the
                                                                           establishment of the NRSC is a significant
                                                                           step forward for further improvement of the
                                                                           road safety in Albania. However, PHARE
                                                                           funds did not materialize, and the acquisition
                                                                           of road maintenance, safety, and
                                                                           signalization equipment had to be
                                                                           significantly reduced, limiting the Project's
                                                                           contribution to the improvement of
                                                                           maintenance and safety in the national road
                                                                           network.



(iii) Promote the development of the local    S                            Achieved (S).     The development achieved
contracting and consulting industries.                                     by the local contracting, and consulting
                                                                           industries, through their subcontracting by
                                                                           the Project international contractors and
                                                                           consultants, is significant, and essential to
                                                                           their competitive capacity. It coincides with
                                                                           that estimated at appraisal. The local
                                                                           contractors and consultants have acquired a
                                                                           valuable experience and competence in
                                                                           every aspect (except ICB) of road works
                                                                           management and administration through the
                                                                           advice and help provided by the international
                                                                           firms, and by the TA of the Project
                                                                           supervision team.

(iv) Train GRD's staff on the introduction of S                            Not achieved (U).     The TA to and training
three institutional operational systems (a                                 of GRD's staff, and the development of a
Road Data Bank, a Pavement Management                                      strong cooperation with the UT could not
System, and a Bridge Management System)                                    take place due to the no ratification of the
for road administration, management, and                                   PHARE grant.
budgeting; and develop strong cooperation




                                                        - 15 -

between GRD and the University of Tiranë.



(v) Budgetary decisions based on economic     HS                                   Achieved (HS).      The TA provided by IDA
analysis.                                                                          during the appraisal of the Project, and its
                                                                                   advice and supervision during the
                                                                                   implementation of the Project led GRD to
                                                                                   take all its important budgetary decisions
                                                                                   exclusively on the basis of a satisfactory and
                                                                                   well assessed economic analysis.

(vi ) Achievement of managerial and           S                                    Achieved (S).     GRD achieved overall
coordination capacity by the GRD and by the                                        managerial and supervisory capacity through
PIU, through the TA and training experience                                        the Project supervision team and the Project
provided under the Project.                                                        Coordinator. Road safety in the GRD national
                                                                                   road network achieved an important
                                                                                   institutional goal through the establishment of
                                                                                   the NRSC. The PIU, for the first time,
                                                                                   achieved adequate coordination and
                                                                                   managerial capacity under the Project.


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Upgrading of 31.2 km (originally 19.0 km) 102.3 km (originally 90.1 km)        64.5 km (63% of 102.3-km latest estimate or
in the Northern Corridor and of 71.1 km in                                         72% of 90.1-km original estimate).        A total
the East-West Corridor (TEN Corridor No.                                           of 24.2 km (new 12.0-km Miloti-Lezhë road
8).                                                                                section, with the new Matit and Drinit bridges;
                                                                                   and the new 12.2-km Fushë Krujë- Mamurasi
                                                                                   road section, pending completion from the
                                                                                   First Transport Project), have been
                                                                                   constructed in the Northern Corridor. A total
                                                                                   of 36.0 km (the 21.0-km Librazhd-Qukes
                                                                                   road section; and 15.0 km of the 19.6-km
                                                                                   Qukes-Qafe Thane road section) have been
                                                                                   upgraded in the East-West Corridor. Works
                                                                                   in the 7.0-km Tapiza-Fushë Krujë road
                                                                                   section of the Northern Corridor, started in
                                                                                   December 2002 (4.3 km fully upgraded, and
                                                                                   80% of works completed) and would be
                                                                                   finished by end-2003. The Elbasan bypass
                                                                                   (8.0 km) and the Elbasan-Librazhd (22.5
                                                                                   km) road works contracts in the East-West
                                                                                   Corridor were awarded in December 2002,
                                                                                   started construction in mid-2003, and would
                                                                                   be completed by mid-2005.


(ii) Acquisition of (a) maintenance equipment 50% - 20% - 10%                      50%-20%-10%.         Twenty contracts for
for US$4.8 million (IDA); (b) road safety                                          procurement of goods completed (US$2.47
equipment for US$3.6 million (PHARE); and                                          million, financed by IDA). Of them: (i) nine
(c) vertical and horizontal signalization for                                      contracts for US$2.2 million provided
US$1.0 million (PHARE).                                                            equipment for road maintenance, including
                                                                                   excavators, road rollers, road-marking
                                                                                   equipment, laboratory testing equipment,
                                                                                   vehicle counters, and portable
                                                                                   vehicle-weighing equipment; (ii) six contracts
                                                                                   for US$0.24 million provided equipment for
                                                                                   road safety, mainly 17 patrol vehicles for the
                                                                                   traffic Police; and (iii) five small contracts for
                                                                                   US$30,000 provided essential office
                                                                                   equipment for both GRD and the Traffic
                                                                                   Police. The difference (50%) to US$4.8
                                                                                   million was reallocated to works but also
                                                                                   financed about 20% and 10% of the overall
                                                                                   estimated road safety and signalization
                                                                                   needs. The financing of safety and
                                                                                   signalization equipment worth US$4.6 million



                                                               - 16 -

                                                                   by PHARE could not take place due to the
                                                                   cancellation of its US$7.0 million grant.


(iii) Development of the administrative and  100% - 100%           100% - 100%.        The local contracting and
managerial practices of the: (a) local                             consulting industries developed and
contractors, and (b) local consultants.                            improved, in a satisfactory and competitive
                                                                   level, their managerial and administrative
                                                                   capacity through the originally six (and
                                                                   eventually eight) civil works contracts of the
                                                                   Project. The originally three (and eventually
                                                                   five) international contracting firms, and the
                                                                   originally one (and eventually two)
                                                                   international consulting firms provided (and
                                                                   are still providing) TA and training to: (i) eight
                                                                   targeted local contractors; and (ii) four
                                                                   targeted local consultants, through
                                                                   subcontracting several parts of the contracts.
                                                                   The local contractors and consulting firms
                                                                   could not acquire - neither it was expected at
                                                                   appraisal - international procurement
                                                                   experience because the size of the contracts
                                                                   required application of ICB procedures,
                                                                   excluding them at the pre-qualification stage.


(iv) TA to and training of GRD staff for the 0%                    0%.     None of the items of this component
preparation of a Road Data Bank, a                                 could be implemented because of the no
Pavement Management System, and a                                  ratification of the PHARE grant. Some
Bridge Management System; and                                      sporadic training was directly provided
collaboration and coordination with the                            through IDA supervision operations, as
University of Tiranë.                                              attendance of GRD and RRD staff to several
                                                                   international seminars, and the organization
                                                                   of a one-week Soils Technology Seminar at
                                                                   the UT. Some additional training was
                                                                   provided through the financing of an initial
                                                                   stage of the Road Data Bank by Sweden, out
                                                                   of the Project.


(v) Budgetary decisions based on an          100%                  100%.      This has been fully achieved
economic analysis for any investment above                         (100%), and extended to lower investments.
US$5.0 million equivalent.                                         GRD and its RRDs always carry out and
                                                                   provide an economic analysis (which
                                                                   includes technical, economic, safety, and
                                                                   environmental considerations) for every
                                                                   budgetary investment above US$1.0 million
                                                                   equivalent. Below this threshold, usually
                                                                   maintenance works, GRD prioritizes the
                                                                   works on the basis of the same
                                                                   considerations but without a full economic
                                                                   analysis.


(vi) Overall GRD administrative, managerial  100% - 100%           100% and 100%.        The GRD administrative,
and coordination capacity, and specific PIU                        managerial and supervisory capacity
Project managerial and coordination capacity.                      acquired under the Project is satisfactory
                                                                   (100%). GRD also acquired an important
                                                                   experience in ICB procurement through its
                                                                   involvement - under direct advice from IDA
                                                                   local office, IDA supervision missions,
                                                                   supervision consultants, and the PC-PIU
                                                                   team - in the whole procurement process of
                                                                   pre-qualification and award of the eight civil
                                                                   works contracts. The establishment of the
                                                                   NRSC would permit GRD to enforce specific
                                                                   safety measures along its national road
                                                                   network. The improvements achieved on the
                                                                   selection of staff were decisive on
                                                                   establishing a PIU with a satisfactory




                                                         - 17 -

                                                                              managerial capacity (100%). To retain this
                                                                              PIU for other projects would be a further
                                                                              achievement of the Project.

1End of project
NOTE:The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) used for comparison are taken from the last PSR since the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) was prepared before the formulation of KPIs was a requirement (see 7.3 of main text). The
basic Indicator 100% (whether as an estimate of the last PSR - second column - or as an actual achievement, in the
third column) means that the referred Project component has been satisfactorily and fully implemented (or partially
implemented if less than 100%) as in the SAR. The third column of the Annex "Output Indicators" explains with
certain detail how these KPIs figures are determined.

-        HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                             Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million       US$ million
A. Civil Works                                                 45.00              65.78             146.2
B. Road Maintenance, Safety and Signalization                   7.00                2.48             35.4
C. Technical Assistance and Training
     (i) Supervision of Roads Works                             1.40                2.27            162.1
     (ii) Road Data Bank                                        0.50                0.00                0
     (iii) Pavement Management System                           1.00                0.00                0
     (iv) Bridge Management System                              0.50                0.00                0
     (v) Project Co-ordinator                                   0.80                1.02            127.5
     (vi) TA to GRD and RRD executive staff                     0.50                0.16               32
     (vii) Training of GRD and RRD staff                        1.00                0.31               31

Total Baseline Cost                                            57.70              72.02
 Physical Contingencies                                         5.80
 Price Contingencies                                            2.50
                          Total Project Costs                  66.00              72.02
                    Total Financing Required                   66.00              72.02
NOTE: C.(vi) or US$0.16 million, and C.(vii) or US$0.31 million above refer to IDA Credit funding of
occasional TA/training to GRD and RRDs staff provided during the supervision of the Project.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                   2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                           19.70            0.00           0.00             30.80           50.50
                                  (17.10)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (17.10)
2. Goods                            4.80            0.30           0.30              3.00           8.40
                                   (4.80)          (0.30)          (0.30)           (0.00)         (5.40)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           2.50              4.60           7.10
    Consultancies                  (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.50)           (0.00)         (2.50)
   Total                           24.50            0.30           2.80             38.40           66.00
                                  (21.90)          (0.30)          (2.80)           (0.00)         (25.00)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
    1. Works                                22.62               0.00              2.02             41.14            65.78
                                           (15.93)             (0.00)            (1.57)            (0.00)           (17.50)
    2. Goods                                2.39                0.00              0.09             0.00              2.48
                                            (2.39)             (0.00)            (0.09)            (0.00)           (2.48)
    3. Services                             0.00                0.00              2.97             0.79              3.76
         Consultancies                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.97)            (0.00)           (2.97)
        Total                               25.01               0.00              5.08             41.93            72.02
                                           (18.32)             (0.00)            (4.63)            (0.00)           (22.95)

      1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

      2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
        of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
        managing the project.




                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
         Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Road Works                   17.10        5.00        28.40        17.50         11.46     36.82       102.3    229.2     129.6
B. Road Maintenance,             5.40        0.00         3.00         2.48         0.00       0.00       45.9      0.0       0.0
Safety and Signalization
C. Technical Assistance
and Training:
  (i) Supervision of Roads       1.20        0.00         0.50         1.48         0.00       0.79       123.3     0.0      158.0
Works
 (ii) Road Data Bank             0.00        0.00         0.70         0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
 (iii) Pavement                  0.00        0.00         1.20         0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Management System
 (iv) Bridge Management          0.00        0.00         0.60         0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
System
 (v) Project Coordinator         1.00        0.00         0.00         1.02         0.00       0.00       102.0     0.0       0.0
 (vi) TA to GRD and RRD          0.00        0.00         0.60         0.16         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
staff
 (vii) Training of GRD and       0.30        0.00         1.00         0.31         0.00       0.00       103.3     0.0       0.0
RRD staff

TOTAL                           25.00        5.00        36.00        22.95         11.46     37.61       91.8     229.2     104.5




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

        The Economic Evaluation (Calculation of Economic Costs and Benefits) is based on the following
consistent principles.



A.      The Economic Evaluation has been carried out for the road sections completed (June 2003) under
the Project. This component is the only one which can be quantitatively assessed. The quality and
operational results of the other Project components (Safety, Maintenance Equipment, TA, and Training)
have proven satisfactory, but a quantitative economic assessment is not possible.


B.      General Description, and Approach.           The Economic Evaluation in the Appraisal document
included three road-section (Map IBRD 27624R) items, namely the: (i) Reconstruction of the Elbasan -
Qafe Thane road segment in the East-West Corridor (TEN Corridor 8) divided, for its implementation
under the Project, into four road-section contracts; (ii) Rehabilitation of the Tapiza-Fushë Krujë road
section in the Northern Corridor, a single contract still under implementation; and (iii) Construction of the
new Miloti-Lezhë road section, including two new bridges over the Matit and Drinit rivers, in the
Northern Corridor.


        The road sections already completed under the Project are part of but do not coincide with those
considered for the economic evaluation at Appraisal (Section 4.07 of the Staff Appraisal Report).
Consequently, the approach to the new economic evaluation consists of comparing homogeneous (i.e.,
similar geometric characteristics, soils, locations, construction costs and traffic volumes) appraised and
completed road sections. These road sections are the appraised Elbasan-Qafe Thane and completed
Librazhd-Qukes road sections, and the appraised Miloti-Lezhë and completed F. Krujë-Mamurasi road
sections, as detailed in parts 1 and 2 below.


        The Economic Evaluation, at Appraisal, took place under the HDM-III model; now, after
completion of works, it is taking place under the HDM-III model (for strict comparison with the
Appraisal), and also under the HDM-IV model, which has been developed during this period (Appraisal to
end of Construction, 1996-2003) of time. The results of the HDM-IV model are more realistic, accurate
and conservative than those of the HDM-III model. This is because the HDM-IV results are based on the
operation of the current vehicle fleet (1990's) consisting of more modern, efficient and stronger vehicles
than those (1970's) of the HDM-III model. Consequently, the HDM-IV current vehicles experience less
damage, require less repair, and achieve lower voc than those under the HDM-III model.


        1.       Librazhd-Qukes road section. The road segment Elbasan-Qafe Thane (71.1 km) was,
because of its homogeneity, considered as one road section item in the Economic Evaluation at Appraisal.
It became, as mentioned above, a four road-section segment for its reconstruction, namely the Elbasan
bypass (8.0 km), Elbasan-Librazhd (22.5 km), Librazhd-Qukes (21.0 km), and Qukes-Qafe Thane (19.6
km) road sections. However, only the road section Librazhd-Qukes (21.0 km; actual cost US$16.8 M)
financed by IDA was completed by the IDA Credit Closing Date May 31, 2003, the other sections are still
under construction. Since all the road sections of the whole Elbasan-Qafe Thane road segment are
homogeneous, their NPVs (in relative terms, according to their lengths) and ERRs (in absolute terms) are
comparable, and the results are (* = results under HDM-III; ** = Results under HDM-IV; M = US$1


                                                      - 21 -

million) as follows:


APPRAISAL:                Length      Works      Const.Cost      Traffic      IRI       NPV           ERR

Elbasan-Librazhd          71.1km     Recnt'n     US$36.4M         3,150vpd 8.3m/km US$19.5M            24.3%
-Qukes-Qafe Thane

COMPLETION:

Librazhd-Qukes*            21.0km     Recnt'n       US$16.8M         3,010vpd 2.2m/km US$1.1M          14.0%
                 **                                                                       US$0.9M      12.9%




Therefore, according to the HDM-III method calculations, the Economic Rate of Return of the
Librazhd-Qukes road section after completion is ERR* = 14.0% compared to ERR = 24.3% at
Appraisal; its Net Present Value, at Appraisal NPV = (US$19.5M x 21.0km) : 71.1km = US$5.8M is now
an NPV* = US$1.1M. According to the HDM-IV the ERR is now ERR** = 12.9% somewhat lower than
the ERR = 24.3% at Appraisal; and the NPV is now NPV** = US$0.9M, compared with the NPV =
US$5.8 M at Appraisal, and the NPV* = US$1.1 M under the HDM-III. These results (ERR and NPV),
lower than those estimated at Appraisal, are a consequence of the no-materialization of the expected traffic
(mainly international) increases likely because of the delays on the works for the modernization of the rest
of the Corridor.


        2.        Miloti-Lezhë road section.        The Miloti-Lezhë (12.0 km two-lane road; actual cost
US$5.8 M) road section is a totally new road (alignment and construction) including two new modern
(two-lane) bridges over the Matit and Drinit (650 m and 200 m long, respectively; actual cost of both
bridges US$6.7 M) rivers, financed by IDA (the road section) and by Italy (the two bridges). This section,
and the preceding two sections Fushë Krujë-Mamurasi and Mamurasi-Miloti, are homogeneous, except for
the two bridges. In the Economic Evaluation, the total cost of the Fushe Krujë-Lezhë segment - including
bridges, and with the costs of previously completed works (under the Transport Project) duly updated - is
estimated at US$22.2 M (or US$7.4 M equivalent per road section, if averaged). The Economic Evaluation
has been done for the whole homogeneous length Fushë Krujë-Mamurasi-Miloti-Lezhë. The ERR is the
same, in absolute terms, for the whole segment and for every section. The NPV, in relative terms, would be
one third of that of the segment for every section, since the three sections have the same length, and equally
share the cost of the two bridges (because they could not be opened to traffic without the two bridges).


APPRAISAL:           Length    Works           Const. Cost      Traffic      IRI      NPV           ERR

Miloti-Lezhë, and 12.0km       New Cnt'n     US$12.9M            4,500vpd     8.0   US$21.0M         43.9%
Matit/Drinit bridges

COMPLETION:

F. Krujë-Mam'si- 36.0km       New Cnt'n      US$22.2M            5,700vpd 2.2m/km       US$89.3M        50.6%
-Miloti-Lezhë*

                  **                                                                    US$59.5M       44.5%




                                                     - 22 -

Therefore, according to the HDM-III method calculations, the Economic Rate of Return of the
Miloti-Lezhë road section after completion is ERR* = 50.6% compared to ERR = 43.9% at Appraisal; its
Net Present Value NPV* = 1/3 x US$89.3 M = US$29.8 M compares favorably with that at Appraisal
NPV = US$21.0 M. According to the HDM-IV method, the ERR is now ERR** = 44.5% (similar to that
at Appraisal - 43.9% - but somewhat lower than that of the HDM-III or ERR* = 50.6%); and the NPV is
now NPV** = 1/3 x US$59.5 M =US$19.8 M (similar to that at Appraisal or NPV = US$21.0 M, and
significantly lower than that under the HDM-III or NPV* = US$29.8 M).


C.      SUMMARY and CONCLUSION.


WEIGHTED AVERAGE (APPRAISAL):

Cost (US$M)           =      (US$36.4M x 21.0km) : 71.1km for Librazhd-Qukes + US$12.9M for
                            Miloti-Lezhë/Bridges = US$10.8M + US$12.9M = US$23.7 M


NPV@12% (US$M) =             (US$19.5M x 21.0km) : 71.1km for Librazhd-Qukes + US$21.0M for
                             Miloti-Lezhë = US$5.8M + US$21.0M = US$26.8 M

ERR (%)                =      (24.3% x 21.0km for Librazhd - Qukes + 43.9% x 12.0km for Miloti -
                              Lezhë) : (21.0km + 12.0km) = (510.3 + 526.8): 33 = 31.4%



WEIGHTED AVERAGE (COMPLETION):

Cost (US$M)            =      US$16.8M for Librazhd-Qukes + US$12.5M for Miloti-Lezhë/Bridges =
                               = US$29.3 M

NPV@12%(US$M) =                * US$1.1M for Librazhd-Qukes + 1/3 x US$89.3M for Miloti-Lezhë and
                                 Bridges = US$1.1M + US$29.8M = US$30.9 M

                              ** US$0.9M for Librazhd-Qukes + 1/3 x US$59.5M for Miloti-Lezhë and
                                   Bridges = US$0.9M + US$19.8M = US$20.7 M

ERR (%)                =       * (14.0% x 21.0km for Librazhd-Qukes + 50.6% x 12.0km for Miloti-
                                 Lezhë) : (21.0km+12.0km) = (294.0 + 607.2) : 33.0 = 27.3%

                              ** (12.9% x 21.0km for Librazhd-Qukes + 44.5% x 12.0km for Miloti-
                                 Lezhë) : (21.0km + 12.0km) = (270.9 + 534.0) : 33 = 24.4%




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
 Stage of Project Cycle                           No. of Persons and Specialty                      Performance Rating
                                                (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)             Implementation Development
                      Month/Year       Count               Specialty                             Progress           Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                6/95 (Identif.)                    3     TM, TEC, TS                                 HS                HS
                11/95 (Prep.)                      3     TM, TEC, TS                                 HS                HS

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                2/96 (Appr.)                       3     TM, TEC, TS                                 HS                HS
                5/96 (Neg.)                        3     TM, LEG, DIS                                HS                HS

 Supervision
                8/96                                3    TM, TS, OA                                  HS                HS
                12/96                               3    TM, TS, TEC                                 HS                HS
                9/97                                3    TM, TS, PO                                  S                  U
                3/98                                3    TM, TS, PO                                  S                  U
                12/98                               4    SM, TM, TS, PO                              S                  U
                6/99                                2    TS, PO                                      S                  S
                9/99                                3    TM, TS, PO                                  S                  S
                2/00                                3    TM. TS, PO                                  S                  S
                6/00                                3    TM, TS, PO                                  S                  S
                11/00                               4    TM, TS, PO, PA                              S                  S
                2/01                                5    SM, TS, PO, OA, CONS                        S                  S
                7/01                                3    TM, TS, PO                                  S                  S
                12/01                               4    TM, TS, PO, CONS                            S                  S
                6/02                                4    TM, TS, PO, CONS                            S                  S
                9/02                                3    TM, TS, PO                                  S                  S
                12/02                               3    TM, TS, PO                                  S                  S

 ICR
                06/02                              2      Joint with Supervision                     S                  S
                                                          mission (PO, CONS)

Abbreviations: CONS = Consultant; DIS = Disbursement Officer; LEG = Legal Counselor; OA = Operations Analyst; PA =
Procurement Analyst; PO = Project Officer; SM = Sector Manager; TEC = Transport Economist; TM = Task Manager; TS =
Transport Specialist (Engineer).
NOTE: The supervision teams always overlapped with at least two other projects among the First Transport Project, the Rural
Roads Project, the Emergency Road Repair Project, and the Road Maintenance Project - Following State of Emergency, Project
implementation was halted two months (September and October 1998). Restart of implementation from November 5, 1998
onwards.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         46.2                              115.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              45.0                              112.7
  Supervision                                       139.0                              369.7
  ICR                                                  5.0                               18.2
  Total                                             235.2                              616.2



                                                          - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Albania Country Strategy Paper, February 28, 1994.
2. Albania Country Strategy Paper, July 18, 1998.
3. Staff Appraisal Report, Albania, National Roads Project, May 20, 1996 - Report No. 15464-ALB.
4. Credit Agreement IDA/GoA, dated July 17, 1996.
5. Loan Agreement Italy-GoA, September 1998.
6. HDM-III. Economic Evaluation of the Librazhd-Qukes (21.0 km) road section (TEN Corridor 8).
7. HDM-IV. Economic Evaluation of the Librazhd-Qukes (21.0 km) road section (TEN Corridor 8).
8. HDM-III. Economic Evaluation of the Fushë Krujë-Lezhë (44.7 km) road section (Northern Corridor)
9. HDM-IV. Economic Evaluation of the Fushë Krujë-Lezhë (44.7 km) road section (Northern Corridor)
10. Generation of Jobs under the Project.
11. IDA missions Back-to-Office Reports, PSRs, and Aide-Memoires from June 1995 through June 2002
12. Draft ICR (Comments) prepared by the Borrower.
13. ROCKS Final Report, June 2002
14. Grant Agreement Italy-GoA, January 7, 2003
15. UNICEF Statistics about size, population density, poverty spread, and Index of integrated poverty
indicators in Albania




                                                - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
(I.D.A. CREDIT No. 2888-ALB)
Prepared by the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
National Roads Project
Ministry of Transport, General Roads Directorate

Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry

1.1     Objectives

        The project was established to foster a national institutional and managerial improvement of the
road sector and was based on the main priority needs established by the General Roads Directorate
(GRD)'s 1996-1998 Public Investment Plan. The project was designed to support the Country Assistance
Strategy for Albania by rehabilitating and expanding the transport system, which had deteriorated to the
point where it constituted a major impediment to private sector development, as well as to foreign direct
investment.

        The main objectives of the project were to:

(i)     accommodate expected traffic growth by rehabilitating and constructing national roads;
(ii)    improve the maintenance and safety of national roads;
(iii)   promote the development of the local contracting and consulting industries; and
(iv)    train GRD's staff and develop strong co-operation between GRD's staff and activities and the
University of Tirana.

1.2     Revised Objectives

        The objectives were not revised during the Project.

1.3     Original Components

1.3.1   Civil Works on about 90km of National Roads in the East-West and Northern Corridors

        This component included 90.1 km of road works, divided into five sections covered by separate
contracts, together with a sixth contract for two important new bridges over the Mat and Drin Rivers. The
works were located in two of the three main road corridors of Albania. Three consecutive sections were in
the East-West Corridor, which links Albania to the Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia and to
Greece. Two non-consecutive sections plus the two bridges were in the Northern Corridor, which starts in
Tirana and leads to the north-western region of the Country, where the important cities of Lezha and
Shkodra are located. It also connects Albania to Montenegro and Serbia, and this corridor is the only road
link between Albania and Central and Northern Europe. All these roads were in poor condition and were
overloaded where they passed through towns.




                                                    - 28 -

1.3.2   Provision of Equipment and Materials for Road Maintenance, Road Safety and Signalisation

       Six of the Regional Roads Directorates (RRD) still had only a few old, and mostly obsolete, pieces
of road maintenance equipment. Under this project, they would be furnished with new, basic road
maintenance equipment. The equipment would allow the RRDs to achieve sound maintenance with modern
equipment and technology. Particularly important was the establishment of a radio communication system
for nation-wide co-ordination of the maintenance system and permanent contact with GRD's headquarters
in Tirana.

       Urgently needed improvement of road safety would be achieved through acquisition of specific
equipment, such as speed control radar, alcoholimeters and vehicles for the National Traffic Police.

1.3.3   Supervision of Road Works

       This component provided for the hiring of an international consulting team for supervision of works.
This was considered necessary due to the significant investment involved in the six road contracts and the
increasing but still limited experience of the GRD staff and local consultants in supervision.

       The consultant team would include, as a minimum, a Resident Team Leader (Highway Engineer), a
Materials Engineer and an Inspector or Surveyor.

1.3.4   Establishment of a Road Data Bank, a Pavement Management System and a Bridge
Management System

       The above three important institutional operational systems for road administration, management
and budgeting were to be introduced for the first time in Albania under the project. These were considered
essential to achieving any satisfactory maintenance and improvement plan for the national road network
and all subsequent action. The systems were to be established and implemented by GRD staff under the
advice and co-ordination of three teams of international consultants.

1.3.5   Employment of consultants to co-ordinate the project and for TA and to train GRD and RRD
executive staff in the management and modernisation of the road sector, including collaboration with
the University of Tirana, Faculty of Civil Engineering

       It was considered that successful implementation of the project required strong leadership based on
an understanding of the issues involved. Consequently, a deep and consistent co-ordination among all the
project components was essential. Therefore the technical assistance (TA) included a Project Co-ordinator
who would have experience in contract management and procurement, in order to provide a single channel
of co-ordination for the project. This would ensure that an up-to-date focus of knowledge and management
was available for appropriate planning, financial monitoring, satisfactory progress of works and progress
reporting to the Government, IDA and other project donors.

       In addition to the technical assistance of the Supervision and Project Co-ordinator, an important and
extensive programme of TA and of training was required for the GRD's and the RRD's executive staff in
order to manage the organisational adjustments required by the project and the modernisation of the road
sector. The TA and training would be developed by teams of international consultants.

1.4     Revised Components




                                                     - 29 -

        Although the components were not actually revised, the first component of rehabilitation of the
National Roads in the Northern Corridor was increased in scope to complete an unfinished road scheme left
over from the "First Transport Project" due to the civil unrest during early 1997. The scheme was
designated "Fushë Krujë ­ Mamurras Civil Works Contract" and the scheme length was 12.2km.
Therefore the total length of national roads to be improved became 102.3km.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

2.1       Outcome/Achievement of Objectives

          Objective:-      Accommodate expected traffic growth by rehabilitating and constructing
national roads.

          This objective has been satisfactorily met by the IDA financed Civil Works Road Contracts.
However the originally anticipated parallel financing by other donors (namely: EBRD, Kuwait Fund and
Italy) has been very much delayed. The two IDA-financed Civil Works Road Contracts together with the
additional unfinished Works Contract, from the previous "First Transport Project", have all been
successfully completed.

          For the National Road in the East-West corridor the project has provided some benefit to the traffic
on that route due to the rehabilitation and upgrading of the section between Librazhd and Qukës. However
this is only approximately 30% of the route. The other two Civil Works Road Contracts have been
delayed. The Kuwait Fund financed Contract has actually commenced between Qukës and Qafë Thanë and
should be completed by the end of 2003. This will upgrade a further 30% of the route. Finally the
remaining 40% is to be financed by the EBRD and should commence construction in spring 2003 and be
completed by spring 2005. Therefore at the time of preparing this ICR, the objective for the East-West
Route could be considered `Unsatisfactory', but in the longer term should be considered to be `Satisfactory'
when the other donor-funded Contracts are completed.

          For the National Road in the Northern corridor the project has provided substantial benefits to
traffic travelling to the north. Completion of the sections of new road between Fushë Krujë and Mamurras
(carried over from the First Transport Project) and between Miloti and Lezha has now provided a safer
more direct route between Tirana and Miloti.

          However the delay to the Italian financed Contract, which provides for rehabilitating and upgrading
of the road between Tapiz (north of Tirana) and Fushë Krujë means that traffic is still using the existing
road with its poor surface quality. In addition, the Italian financed Contract also provides for the
construction of new bridges over the Mat and Drin Rivers. These two bridges are within the section of
road between Miloti and Lezha and their completion in December 2002 meant that the earlier completed
Miloti to Lezha section of road could be utilized. The Italian funded Contract commenced in July 2001 and
should be completed by May 2003. Therefore at the time of preparing this ICR, the objective for the
Northern Route could be considered `Satisfactory'.

          Objective:-      Improve the maintenance and safety of national roads.

          As with the previous objective, the second part of this objective has been achieved with the
completion of the IDA financed Civil Works Road Contracts and will be further enhanced with the
completion of the three remaining `Other Donor' financed Road Contracts. The construction of new roads
and the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing roads has improved the `ride quality' for traffic and


                                                     - 30 -

provision of better junctions with better visibility has made the road network much safer.

         One drawback with the improved road network is that traffic speeds have increased substantially.
The improved road network has led to a reduction in accidents. However the increased speed of traffic has
meant that when accidents do occur, they are more severe than previous.

         The procurement of road maintenance equipment, laboratory testing equipment and some
equipment and vehicles for the police has contributed to the improved maintenance and safety of the
national roads. However, the acquisition of specific equipment, such as speed control radar, alcoholimeters
and vertical and horizontal signalization equipment was not undertaken due to lack of EU (Phare) funding.
Similarly the establishment of a radio communication system for nation-wide co-ordination of the
maintenance system and permanent contact with GRD's headquarters at Tirana did not occur within the
project. The procurement procedure for the communication system commenced but was cancelled due to
the excessive cost of the system required by the GRD. Therefore overall, the objective to improve the
maintenance and safety of national roads has only been partially achieved.

         Objective:-       Promote the development of the local contracting and consulting industries.

         In terms of promoting the development of the local contracting industry, the National Roads
Project (NRP) has been limited. The main reason for this is that due to the size and nature of the Works
contracts, the procurement of contractors for each contract was required to be undertaken through
International Competitive Bidding. Therefore in every case, an "International" contractor was awarded the
Contract. However in most cases, the main Contractors have engaged local sub-contractors for specific
works. In addition the Contractors have also employed local workers for their construction gangs.

         Therefore it can be said that the local contracting industry has benefited from the project and has
gained valuable experience working on large-scale road construction and rehabilitation projects.

         A similar picture can be drawn for the promotion of the local consulting industry. Again the project
required the engagement of an international consulting team for supervision of the works. This was
considered necessary given the significant investment involved in the road contracts and the increasing but
still limited experience of GRD staff and local consultants in supervision. However, the international
supervision consultant has engaged local engineers and technicians as his support staff. Therefore
indirectly the local consulting industry has benefited from the project because local personnel have gained
considerable experience in supervision of major road contracts. In some cases, the personnel have gained
experience with a high level of responsibility.

         Therefore overall the project can be considered `Satisfactory' in achieving the objective of
promoting the development of the local contracting and consulting industries.

         Objective:-       Train GRD's staff and develop strong co-operation between GRD's staff and
activities and the University of Tirana.

         The project allowed for provision of training for the GRD's and RRD's staffs. Although a
consultant was supposed to be engaged to undertake an extensive training programme, this did not occur.
However GRD representatives did undertake several training courses and seminars. These courses took
place in the USA, France, Spain, Macedonia and Bosnia. Worthy of mention individually was the
workshop undertaken in Washington DC. This two week long seminar included visits to leading public and
private transport facilities including briefings by USA government transport officials on government


                                                      - 31 -

policies and whether these had achieved the desired results.

         The other courses/seminars involved `Project Planning, Scheduling and Cost Control' and `Private
Financing for Public Roads'. Therefore although the training of the GRD's staff has been limited, the
seminars and courses attended have developed the awareness of the staff to government and private
involvement in policies and funding of transport projects.

2.2      Output by Components

2.2.1    Civil Works on about 90km of National Roads in the East-West and Northern Corridors

         Three IDA-financed civil works contracts have been completed, providing improvement to 43 km
of National Roads with a total cost of $24.64 million including the Government of Albania (GoA)
counterpart funding. A further 26 km is currently under improvement financed by Kuwait and Italy, with
GoA counterpart funding, to the value of $18.63 million. Finally the EBRD/Italian funded contract for 30
km of road improvement with an estimated value of EUR20.9 million (US$22.5 million) should commence
in spring 2003.

         Therefore we are pleased to report that despite various difficulties causing all the contracts to take
a considerable time at start-up, the IDA financed civil works contracts have been completed successfully
and within budget. Unfortunately the parallel financed works contracts by other donors have been
considerably delayed through the civil unrest in Albania in 1997 and with other administrative problems.

         However at the time of preparation of this report, two out of the three other donor funded civil
works contracts are under construction and expected to be completed by the middle of 2003. The
remaining contract is expected to commence in spring 2003 and be completed within two years. Thus
providing a total improvement to 99km of the national road network, and generating an estimated 2,110
job-years with further employment (estimated at 1,000 job-years) in the material and transport sector.

2.2.2    Provision of Equipment and Materials for Road Maintenance, Road Safety and Signalisation

         Twenty contracts for procurement of goods have been completed with a total value of $2.47
million. Nine of these, to the value of $2.2 million, provided equipment for use in road maintenance and six
contracts, to a value of $0.24 million, provided equipment to improve road safety. For the road
maintenance, the contracts included provision of `Road Construction Equipment', Excavators, Road
Rollers, `Road Marking Equipment', `Laboratory Equipment', Vehicle Counters and `Portable Weighing
Equipment', computers and office equipment. A further contract procured essential office equipment to
improve the GRD's offices and included the installation of a new telephone system.

         For the road safety, the main component, funded by the IDA, was the provision of seventeen
vehicles for use by the police. The remaining components for procurement of road safety equipment such
as speed control radar, alcoholimeters and vertical and horizontal signalization equipment were not
completed due to lack of available funding from EU (Phare).

2.2.3    Supervision of Road Works

         The selection of international supervision consultants took place following IDA guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants dated August 1981 and the contract was awarded to an Italian consultant. The
initial value of the contract has been increased to take account of the fact that the Works contracts have


                                                     - 32 -

been delayed. The value of the Contract is now $1.48 million and is due for completion at the end of
December 2002. However, the supervision services will continue beyond this date under provision of
funding by the Kuwait Fund, and the Italian Development Co-operation.

2.2.4    Establishment of a Road Data Bank, a Pavement Management System and a Bridge
Management System

         These components were included within the NRP and should have been financed through an EU
(Phare) grant. However during 1998 it transpired that the agreement to provide the PHARE funds was
never ratified. Therefore these components were not undertaken within the NRP due to lack of other donor
funding.

         However the Road Data Bank is currently being carried out under a separate project with Swedish
funding.

2.2.5    Employment of consultants to co-ordinate the project and for TA and to train GRD and RRD
executive staff in the management and modernisation of the road sector, including collaboration with
the University of Tirana, Faculty of Civil Engineering

         The Project Co-ordinator (PC) was selected following the IDA guidelines for the Selection of
Consultants dated August 1981. The PC has provided a single channel of command for the project and has
ensured that an up-to-date focus of knowledge and managerial experience has been available for
appropriate planning, financial monitoring and progress reporting to GoA departments, to the World Bank
and to other project donors. The PC has provided assistance to the GRD through the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The PC has also ensured that the funds have been utilised so as to maintain a
proper balance between project beneficiaries and maximising overall benefits. The PC has assisted the PIU
with procurement of the components for the project using both IDA procurement policies and the other
co-financiers' requirements of procurement.

         As with the previous components, the employment of consultants for training of the GRD staff was
included within the NRP and the proposed funding should have been through an EU (Phare) grant. Again
the PHARE funds did not become available and therefore consultants were not engaged for training
purposes and this component was not undertaken within the scope of the NRP.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

3.1      Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency

         The collapse of the pyramid scheme in March 1997 triggered civil unrest, rioting and near anarchy
that the Government was unable to control. The project's technical assistance personnel left Albania for
about two months due to the unrest. Several donor missions were cancelled resulting in the project being
constrained by the absence of Aid Agreements between the other donors and the GoA.

         The transition toward a market economy also brought an unforeseen pressure on the civil society
and this manifested itself again in September 1998 when further civil unrest occurred. This time the Miloti
­ Lezha Works Contract was affected. The Contractor had to abandon the site because the north of the
country was much less settled than the remainder. The project's technical assistance personnel were able to
remain in Albania during the short period of unrest. However once again donor missions were postponed
causing delays to the project because of continuing lack of Aid Agreements and donor funding.


                                                   - 33 -

        The implementation of the project is considered to have been partially affected by these periods of
civil unrest. The final outcome of the project has not been affected but the timescale for the total project
has been considerably extended.

        Another major factor affecting the implementation and outcome of the project is the unfavourable
exchange rate between the SDR and US Dollar. This has led to an 8% reduction of IDA financing from
US$ 25.0 million to US$ 23.0 million equivalent. Since the works' and goods' contracts had already been
signed with contractors and suppliers, the problem had to be resolved by the GoA increasing their
counterpart funding from 20% at the start of the project to 45% of payments towards the end of the project.
Therefore the implementation of the project is considered to have been negligibly affected by the exchange
rate due to the actions taken by the GoA.

        A third factor, which has substantially affected one of the contracts within the project, is the
problem of parallel financing by other donors. In this particular case the IDA financed contract has been
completed. However the scheme cannot yet become part of the national road network because two bridges,
which are necessary to complete the route, have only just received the necessary funding from the Italian
Government and therefore will not be completed before late 2002.

3.2     Factors generally subject to Government control

        The main factor under Government control, which has affected the implementation of the project,
was the delay the contractors suffered in gaining possession of the sites. The cause of these delays was due
to problems with land and property expropriation. On all the works contracts the delays mainly occurred at
the commencement of the contract. However in some cases delays also occurred later in the contract as the
contractor progressed along the site.

        There has been some improvement in the process of land and property expropriation during the
period of the NRP. New legislation and the establishment of an Expropriation Department within the GRD
have brought this about.

        The implementation of the project is considered to have been partially affected by the delays in land
and property expropriation.

3.3     Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency control

        The domestic design and supervision consultants initially prepared poor quality designs and bills of
quantities for the road improvement schemes. This led to delays at the commencement of the Works'
contracts when the contractors engaged for the works had to undertake further substantial design work in
order to be in a position to construct the Works. The implementing agency followed a complicated and
time consuming procedure to have the revised designs checked and approved. This led to the contractors
suffering delays or having to continue with the construction works at their own risk until the designs were
approved. The implementation of the project is considered to have been partially affected by the poor
quality of the initial designs.

Sustainability

4.1     Rationale for Sustainability Rating




                                                    - 34 -

         Sustainability of the project is highly likely. This is because of the GoA's ongoing commitment to
improving the Country's national road network. This is demonstrated by the present funding of the
construction of the Lezha ­Shkodra section by the GoA. Sustainability is also helped through the ongoing
projects, together with those currently under preparation, for maintenance of the national road network and
further improvements to key elements of the network. These ongoing projects provide business and
employment opportunities for Albanian construction companies. In summary, continued co-operation
between the Bank, other development organisations, the Albanian government and private sector
organisations is necessary for continued sustainability.

4.2      Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation

         It will take several more years yet before transition to regular operation is complete. In part this is
because of the new organisation's weak managerial skills and lack of experience in a market economy, and
also because Albania lacks a permanent civil service. Conversion to new technologies and learning new
procedures of work, co-operation and competition would be essential during the transition period.

Lessons Learned

5.1      Road Designs and Related Expropriation

         Competent road designs, together with complete bills of quantities, should be ready for inclusion in
the bidding documents. Problems with poor designs and incomplete bills of quantities have lead to the
contractors, in close co-operation with the supervising consultant, having to undertake substantial design
reviews at the commencement of contracts.

         Similarly land and property expropriation should also be completed by the time bidding for the
Works' contract begins and well before starting the related works.

         The lessons have now been learned. In the case of the EBRD funded contracts, which are running
considerably later than the IDA contracts, a separate design contract has been awarded. This provides for a
full design and bills of quantities together with preparation of land expropriation plans and schedules, for
use by the GRD's Expropriation Department.

Borrower and Bank Performance

         The MOT and GRD are very appreciative of the help, work and advice given to them by the
Bank's staff during the implementation of the Project. The contribution and work of the Task Managers,
Mr. Luis Revuelta and Mr. Cesar Queiroz, and their assistants Ms. Elena Kastlerova and Mr. Olivier Le
Ber, and their supervision missions have contributed greatly to the final success and achievements of the
Project.

Table 1: Road/Bridge Contracts Undertaken

                               Length at       Actual                              Actual/          Actual/
Contract                       SAR             Length            Financiers        Estimated        Estimated
                               (km)            Constructe                          Cost             Date of
                                               d     (km)                          (million US$) Completion
Tapiz ­ Fushe Kruje            7.0             7.0               GoI/GoA                1.70        May '03



                                                      - 35 -

Fushe Kruje ­ Mamurras     N/A             12.2           IDA/GoA          2.02            Jan' 00
Miloti ­ Lezha             12.0            11.2           IDA/GoA          5.79              Dec'01
Mat & Drin Bridges         650 & 200m      650 & 200m     GoI/GoA          6.72              Dec'02
Elbasan Bypass             Inc.            8.0            GoI/EIB          6.46            Aug'04
Elbasan - Librazhd         30.5            22.0           EBRD/GoA         16.04            Mar'05
Librazhd - Qukes            21.0           21.0           IDA/GoA              16.83        Oct' 01
Qukes - Qafe Thane             19.6             19.6       Kuwait/GoA 10.22           Jul '03


Note: Tapiz-Fushe Kruje Road and Mat & Drin Bridges combined into one Contract




Table 2: Road/Bridge Contracts ­ Number of Bids & Winning Contractor

                                                       Amount of            Actual/          Cost in
Contract                   Number     Winning          Winning Bid /        Estimated        US$ per
                           of Bids    Contractor       Converted to US$     Cost             Km
                                                       at Contract          (million US$)
                                                       Exchange Rate
Tapiz ­ Fushe Kruje        9        Falcione          Lit 2,473,234,800
                                    (Italian)         US$ 1,141,844         1.70             0.283M
Fushe Kruje ­ Mamurras N/A          Mak-Albania       432,062,394 Lek                        Finishing
                                    (Kuwaiti)         US$ 2,672,000        2.02              Works
Miloti ­ Lezha           5          Falcione          765,442,000 Lek
                                    (Italian)         US$ 5,035,803        5.79              0.568M
Mat & Drin Bridges       9          Falcione          Lit 10,239,879,825
                                    (Italian)         US$ 4,727,553        6.72              8.195M
Elbasan Bypass           4            Falcione          6,000,000          6.46              0.808M
                                      (Italian)        (US$ 6,462,000)
Elbasan-Librazhd         8          Mapa              14,895,108
                                    (Turkish)         US$ 16,042,000       16.04             0.729M
Librazhd - Qukes           7        Mavrovo            2,525,136,419
                                    (Macedonian)       Lek                  16.83            0.829M
                                                       US$ 15,728,103
Qukes-Qafe-Thane               6        Mak-Yol        1,410,308,249 Lek
                                        (Turkish)      US$10,219,625 10.22     0.521M

Note:   (i)  All roads - 7.5m wide asphalt carriageway with two 2.0m gravel shoulders.
        (ii) Qukes-Qafe Thane Climbing Lane section ­ 10.5 m wide asphalt carriageway with two 1.0m
             gravel shoulders.
(i)     On bridges - 7.5 m wide asphalt carriageway with two 1.5m asphalt shoulders.




                                                 - 36 -

 Table 3: Project Components by Donor Financing

Donor     Financing     Planned Procurement of        Actual        Actual Procurement Achieved
          Plan at SAR   Component                     Financing
          (US$ million)                               (US$ million)
IDA       12.7          Librazhd-Qukes Civil Works    11.62         Librazhd-Qukes Civil Works
(Loan)
          4.4           Miloti-Lezha Civil Works      4.31          Miloti-Lezha Civil Works
         -                                           1.57          Fushe Kruje-Mamurras Civil
                                                                   Works
          4.8           Maintenance Equipment,        0.491         Road Construction Equipment
                        Vehicles and Materials
                                                      0.895         Excavators
                                                     0.559         Rollers & Rd. Marking Equip.
                                                      0.116         Laboratory Equipment
                                                     0.103         Vehicle Counters & Portable
                                                                   Weighing Equipment
                                                     0.035         Office Electronic Equipment
                                                      0.004         Miscellaneous Office Equip.
                                                      2.203         TOTAL Maintenance Equip.
          0.3           Equipment for Road Safety,    0.221         Police Vehicles (17 No.)
                        including Police
                                                      0.024         Office Electronic Equipment
                                                      0.032         Miscellaneous Office Equip.
                                                      0.277         TOTAL Safety Equipment
          0.3           Vertical and Horizontal
                        Signalisation
         1.2           Supervision of Road Works     1.48          Supervision of Road Works
         1.0           Project Co-ordinator          1.02          Project Co-ordinator
         -                                           0.40          TA to GRD and RRD
                                                                   Executive Staff + Studies
          0.3           Training of GRD and RRD       0.07          Training of GRD and RRD
                        Staff                                       Staff
TOTAL     25.0                                        22.95

Govnt     1.1           Tapiz-Fushe Kruje Civil       1.38          Tapiz-Fushe Kruje Civil Works
of Italy                Works                         ( 1.28M)
(Loan)
          7.9           Mat and Drin Bridges Civil    5.70          Mat and Drin Bridges Civil
                        Works                         (5.29M)       Works
TOTAL     9.0                                         7.08 (6.56M)
Gvmnt.    -                                           4.09          Elbasan-Librazhd Civil Works
of Italy                                              (3.8M)        (Contract A - Elbasan Bypass)
(Grant)
Gvmnt.    -                                           1.83          Elbasan-Librazhd Civil Works
of Italy                                              (1.7M)        (Contract A - Elbasan Bypass)


                                               - 37 -

(CEI)
(Grant)
TOTAL   -                                    5.92
                                             (5.5M)

EBRD    11.5    Elbasan-Librazhd Civil       16.16       Elbasan-Librazhd Civil Works
(Loan)          Works                        (15.0M)     (Contract B)

        0.5     Supervision of Road Works    1.1 (1.0M)  Supervision of Road Works
TOTAL   12.0                                 17.3
                                             (16.0M)




                                      - 38 -

 Table 3: Project Components by Donor Financing (Continued)

Donor    Financing     Planned Procurement of        Actual        Actual Procurement Achieved
         Plan at SAR   Component                     Financing
         (US$ million)                               (US$ million)
Kuwait   7.9           Qukes-Qafe Thane Civil        7.66          Qukes-Qafe Thane Civil Works
Fund                   Works
(Loan)
         0.1           Road Data Bank                -
         -                                           0.16          Supervision of Civil Works
                                                                   (Qukes-Qafe Thane)
TOTAL    8.0                                         7.82

E.U.     2.0           Equipment for Road Safety,
(Phare)                including Police
(Grant)
         1.0           Vertical and Horizontal
                       Signalisation
        0.6           Road Data Bank
        1.2           Pavement Management System
        0.6           Bridge Management System
        0.6           TA to GRD and RRD
                      Executive Staff
         1.0           Training of GRD and RRD
                       Staff
         -                                           0.75          Design of Civil Works
                                                     (0.7M)        (Elbasan-Librazhd Section)
TOTAL    7.0                                         0.75 (0.7M)

Govnt    0.4           Elbasan-Librazhd Civil        2.15          Elbasan-Librazhd Civil Works
of                     Works                         (2.0M)
Albania
         2.3           Librazhd-Qukes Civil Works    5.22          Librazhd-Qukes Civil Works
        1.6           Qukes-Qafe Thane Civil Works2.55            Qukes-Qafe Thane Civil Works
        0.1           Tapiz-Fushe Kruje Civil Works0.32           Tapiz-Fushe Kruje Civil Works
        0.3           Miloti-Lezha Civil Works      1.47          Miloti-Lezha Civil Works
        0.3           Mat and Drin Bridges Civil    1.02          Mat and Drin Bridges Civil
                      Works                                       Works
        -                                           0.45          Fushe Kruje-Mamurras Civil
                                                                  Works
TOTAL    5.0                                         13.18




                                              - 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

Additional Annex 9. Additional Information


1.          Analysis of the Roads and Bridges Costs.         Each of the two asphalt roads completed under
the Project consists of a two-lane 7.50-m single carriage-way with two 2.00-m wide gravel shoulders.
Miloti-Lezhë is a new road on a flat terrain with two new bridges over the Matit and the Drinit rivers.
Librazhd-Qukes is a fully reconstructed road section on an undulating terrain. Section 4.2i of the main
text refers to their final construction costs. Both roads and bridges provide the following results and
information:

            (i) the cost of the Miloti-Lezhë (11.2 km, excluding bridges) road section is about US$520,000
per km. This is a low cost for a new road over a flat terrain and it favorably compares with the worldwide
costs surveyed and recorded in ROCKS (Road Cost Knowledge System - ROCKS) of June 2002. These
costs range from a maximum of US$1,875,000 per km over a difficult (topographically and geologically)
terrain to a minimum of US$645,000 over an easy terrain, and an average cost of US$1,256,000 per km.
The cost of the new Matit (650-m long) and Drinit (200-m long) bridges is about US$7,900 per meter,
well in accordance with the worldwide average of US$9,000 per meter for similar bridges, type of river
foundations, and adjacent terrain. The Miloti-Lezhë road section opened to traffic a new aligned (36.2 km
versus existing 44.7 km) and modern Northern Corridor segment generating significant traffic (see Map
IBRD 27626R). These factors - low cost, distance saving, and traffic increase - have led, despite a
two-year delay on the construction of the bridges, to a high ERR of 44.5% which is above appraisal
expectations.

            (ii) the cost of the Librazhd-Qukes-Qafe Thane (40.6 km) road segment, considering that the
Qukes-Qafe Thane road section is being completed under a US$10.2 million fix-priced contract, is about
US$665,000 per km. This is a low cost for a full reconstruction and widening (including a climbing lane)
of a road on an undulating terrain. The worldwide full reconstruction cost (ROCKS 2002) for similar roads
range from a maximum of US$1,418,000 per km to a minimum of US$705,000 per km, and an average
cost of US$1,077,000 per km. This achievement of a modern road segment in the international TEN
Corridor 8 (East-West Corridor) has not yet generated the expected traffic (mainly long distance
international traffic) increase due to the delays on the improvement of the adjacent sections (see Map IBRD
27624R and Map IBRD 27626R). The result is an ERR of 12.9%, still above the opportunity cost of
capital (12%) in Albania but below (24.3%) appraisal expectations.

2.          Analysis of the Generation of Employment, and its Impact on Alleviation of Poverty.

            (i)   Generation of Employment, resulting from an adequate creation and distribution of
wealth (economic growth) is one of the means to fight Poverty. The Appraisal document, through the terms
of reference for the Supervision Team, made well explicit the importance of assessing and recording the
Employment generated through the road works contracts. The information required was obtained from
every contractor, and included in every quarterly progress report.

            (ii)  Up to June 2003, the Project had invested and disbursed US$36.45 million in four
different contracts: Miloti-Lezhë (US$5.8 million), Matit/Drinit Bridges (US$6.72 million),
Librazhd-Qukes (US$16.83 million), and Qukes-Qafe Thane (US$7.10 million of a US$10.22 million
fix-priced contract). It has generated 2,100 job-years, 600 of them in the materials and transport
activities. The average US$6 equivalent per-day salary (or US$1,650 annual salary with an average 275
working days per year) is significantly above the US$2 per day poverty threshold for survival in Albania.



                                                      - 42 -

           (iii)  At the present pace, it is estimated that the Project, when completed all the US$65.4
million road works by mid 2005, would have generated about 3,800 job-years, 1,000 of them in the
materials and transport sectors. This amounts to an investment in mostly unskilled labor, and to a direct net
transfer to the poor of about US$6.3 million, or 9.6% of the total investment in road works. It also implies
a significant impact against extreme Poverty in the Project area, and represents an important achievement
under any social, economic, and political point of view. Furthermore, the Project would also generate about
100 job-years (average: US$3,000 annual salary) for the local consulting industry, and 150 permanent road
maintenance jobs after its completion.

           (iv)   Although not analyzed under the Project, it is estimated that most of the Project workers
live within the 5-km wide area at each side of the road, an area of about 1,000 sq km along the 102.3 km of
road works. Albania, according to available statistics from the U.N., has an average rural density of 100
(varying between 175 and 60) inhabitants per sq km, and the average family consists of five members.
About 30% of the Albania population lives below the Poverty level of US$2 equivalent per day. On the
basis of these averaged figures, estimated but not verified at the Project area, the population of the Project
amounts to about 100,000 persons or 20,000 families, of which 6,000 are poor families. Under the
estimated Project implementation period (8 years, from mid 1997 to mid 2005), the Project will create
3,800 job-years, keeping out of poverty 475 families (8% of the poor population of the Project area)
during every year of Project implementation.

3.         Analysis of the Economic Impact of the Project.          The Economic Impact of the Project is
satisfactory, with a weighted ERR of 24.4% (see 4.3 of main text). This amounts to a US$244,000 annual
benefit (plus generation of about 58 job-years among the poor population of the Project area) for Albania
through every US$1 million invested in road works. However, the delays on the construction of some of the
road sections would lessen the whole Economic Impact of the Project.




                                                    - 43 -

- 44 -

