Report No. PIC1779
Project Name                        Hungary-Municipal Wastewater (@) 
Project
Region                              Europe and Central Asia
Sector                              Water Supply and Wastewater
Project ID                          HUPA8497
Borrowers                           Budapest Municipality
Szekesfehervar Municipality
Dunaujvaros Municipality
Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Transport, Communication
and Water Management
Ms. A'gnes Pinter, Civil Engineer
Development Department
H-1077 Budapest, Dob u. 75-8
Tel (36-1)322 0330/541
Fax (36-1)2697527
Date This PID Prepared              January 22, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date            July 1, 1996 (post appraisal)
Projected Board Date                May 15,1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Water supply service in Hungary is good.   Coverage is high, 95w,
and service in terms of quality and quantity are satisfactory. The
level of sewerage service, on the other hand is low. Only 33t of the
population is connected to a water borne sewer system and only 55t of
the collected sewage is treated. In the past investment in new
construction was a central Government responsibility.     However,  in
1992, the central Government transferred responsibility for water and
sewerage management functions and ownership of assets to local
Governments as part of its economic reform and decentralization program.
Local Governments and water and sewerage operating companies are still
in the process of adapting to the organizational, institutional, and
financial changes that the transfer of responsibility caused. The most
difficult challenge facing local governments is meeting the investment
requirements for improved sewage collection and treatment. Subsidy
sources are diminishing, consistent with the central Government's
objective of financial self-sufficiency for the operating companies.
Government's strategy for assisting the transition, which is supported
by the Bank, has been to: (i) pass responsibility for tariff setting to
local Government's (effective for 1995 tariffs); (ii) gradually reduce
operating subsidies until they are phased out entirely (no target date
has been set); and (iii) encourage local investment in municipal sewage
treatment but support the municipalities with a targeted grants program
for the 23 largest cities which covers an average of 30t of investment
costs (23 Cities Wastewater Treatment Construction Grant Program). The
total program investment cost is estimated at US$4 billion. The Bank is
prepared to support the program by lending in a first operation directly
to three of the participating municipalities (the proposed project) and



later through an intermediary to the remaining 20 over a 15 year period.
The main issues that the Bank would address through its lending are:
(i) the setting of priorities--current standards prevent the most
efficient allocation of scarce resources; (ii) full cost recovery from
consumers--there is still a tendency for municipalities to set tariffs
at levels that only cover operating costs; (iii) constraints to private
sector participation--there are only two successful examples so far; and
(iv) encouraging policies that prevent fragmentation of the existing
water companies into inefficient units--local governments with low cost
systems are setting up independent companies, thus preventing
efficiencies of scale.
Objectives
2.   The project has the following four objectives:    (i) reduce the
pollution load from point sources in the Danube River Basin; (ii) comply
partially with Hungarian and EC and environmental regulations, a
requirement of EU assession; (iii) improve wastewater utility financing
and management in selected water and wastewater operating companies; and
(iv) identify actions for eliminating constraints to sector development
and sustainability in the areas of financing, regulation and
organization.
Description
3.   The project would consist of: (i) sewerage treatment and collection
works for the Budapest, Dunaujvaros and Szekesfehervar municipalities;
(ii) technical assistance for management improvements of publicly owned
water supply and sewerage operating companies; (iii) implementation of
new procedures for setting water quality standards; (iv) policy advice
to the government; and (v) preparation of a second phase project to be
financed by the Bank and other IFIs. The policy advice to the
government would be in the areas of private sector participation,
fragmentation of regional water supply and sewerage system operating
companies, the disposition of government owned water works, the phaseout
of operating subsidies and sector tax policies.
Cost and Financing
4.   The cost of the Project is US$79.3 million equivalent.    The
financing sources are Bank loans to Municipalities, grants from the
Government, EU(PHARE) grants and water revenues. The proposed Bank
loans to the Municipalities would total $22.5 million equivalent, about
28 percent of total financing required. The Government would contribute
US$15.8 million or about 20t of total financing required.    The water and
sewerage system operating companies would contribute US$.6 million,
about 32 percent of total financing required, out of their cash
generation. EU (PHARE) is expected to provide grant financing of
US$15.5 million or 20t of total financing required.    A small amount
(US$1.9 million or 2 percent of total financing required) will be
provided as grants by donors.
5.   The borrowers have requested retroactive financing of up to 109 of
project costs.
-2-



Implementation
6.   Overall project coordination would be by a special project unit in
the MTCWM staffed mainly with consultants (one or more firms) under a
framework contract. In addition, the unit would implement the policy
and institutional aspects of the project. The investment components
would be carried out by the operating company (OC) in the case Budapest,
and the municipalities in the case of Szekesfehervar and Dunaujvaros.
The State Development Institute would manage all project funds and make
disbursements.
Sustainability
7.   The borrowers and their utility companies are committed to the
objectives of the project which is the best assurance that the project
will be sustainable. Also, each municipality's project is part of a
financially feasible master plan based on full cost recovery of the non-
grant financed investment share with tariffs that are affordable. To
formalize their commitment to the project, the municipalities of
Budapest, Dunaujvaros and Szekesfehervar would conclude management
agreements with their utilities which clearly specify the
responsibilities of both sides. The agreements would contain a 5-year
business plan with monitorable targets and a clause allowing automatic
tariff increases for price adjustment.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
8.   The project would be the Bank's first involvement in the water and
sewerage sector in Hungary. Although neither the water management staff
in MTCWM, nor the local sector agencies, have experience with Bank
projects, project design addresses the major lessons learned and
recommendations outlined in OED's recent review of water supply and
sanitation projects over the 1967-1989 period. Specifically, the review
points out the need for (i) water resources management strategies that
are environmentally sustainable -- all projects have been approved and
licensed by Hungary's regional water authorities and environmental
inspectorates; and (ii) a clear and arm's-length regulatory system --
this will be addressed through the continuing work on the policy
framework for the sector.
Poverty Category
Not Applicable
Program Objective Categories
9.   The main program objective met by the project is environmental
improvement.
Environmental Aspects.
10. The project has only positive environmental impacts, the most
important being an improvement in surface water quality in the vicinity
of the projects. As a result, the project has been classified as a
category B project which means that a formal environmental assessment
- 3 -



will not be required by the Bank. However, environmental assessments
have been carried out according to Hungarian law, and these have been
reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
Program Objective Categories
11. The main program objective met by the project is environmental
improvement.
Project Benefits
12. The project investments would reduce water pollution in the Danube
basin and the technical assistance would improve sector efficiency.
Risks
13. Overall, the project has moderate risks. The borrowers are
committed to the projects, the implementing units for each project
component have experienced staff and the final designs and bidding
documents have been prepared. The main risk is that the local
contribution to the project cost may not be available when needed.
Contact Point:       Richard A. MacEwen, Task Manager EC1/2AR
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 473-2497 (tel)
(202) 477-0816 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 24, 1997.
- 4 -



