                                                                                           35802
          REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY - MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER PROJECT
   PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT (LOAN NO. 4512-HU)
                                       PROJECT PAPER



Introductory Statement

This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend the Loan Agreement
between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the
Municipality of Budapest (the Borrower) dated September 22, 1999, for the Hungary - Municipal
Wastewater Project (Loan No. 4512-HU) to allow the use of project cost savings and of
unallocated funds under the Loan to finance the development of nutrient removal facilities at the
North Budapest wastewater treatment plant. The proposed activity is fully consistent with the
Project Development Objective of the Loan, which therefore remains unchanged. The Loan
funds would complement funds from a proposed GEF grant in support of the Nutrient Reduction
Project (P074971, Report No. 32411-HU, dated March 28, 2006), which has been submitted for
consideration by the Executive Directors through streamlined procedures at the April 18, 2006
Board Meeting. The Republic of Hungary, the Guarantor under the related Guarantee Agreement
with the Bank, has provided its no-objection to the use of the savings in question and the
reallocation of the funds.

Background and Reasons for the Amendment

The Project development objective of the Municipal Wastewater Project is to: (a) reduce the
pollution load in the Danube River Basin; (b) strengthen the Borrower's compliance with
Hungarian and EU environmental standards; and (c) improve wastewater operations in the water
and wastewater utilities of the Borrower. The Loan (Loan No. 4512-HU) financed the expansion
and upgrading of the North Budapest wastewater treatment plant to the secondary level of
treatment and the South Pest wastewater treatment plant to the tertiary level of treatment,
including nitrogen and phosphorus removal and biogas recovery; the construction of a trunk main
system in an unsewered area of Budapest; and technical assistance activities. At the time the
Loan was appraised, the activity that this amendment would finance was foreseen as part of the
Municipal master plan to meet EU effluent standards for discharge to sensitive waters. However,
at appraisal the engineer's cost estimates indicated that a North Budapest nutrient removal
component would exceed available resources, hence this investment was referred to in the Project
Description of the Loan as an investment "foreseen for the future".

During the successful implementation of the original components, cost savings of EUR 3.3
million, or 12% of the total Loan amount, were realized because competition resulted in lower
unit prices than estimated at appraisal.       Efficient procurement management and contract
supervision by the Project unit of the Municipality of Budapest contributed to these positive
results. The cost savings are not the result of contract cancellation. In addition to these savings,
the unallocated funds (EUR 2.6 million or 9.4% of the total Loan amount) were not used.

The Municipality of Budapest, supported by the Hungarian Government, requested that rather
than canceling the EUR 5.9 million savings and unallocated funds, they be made available to
finance the North Budapest nutrient removal facilities, complementing grant funds potentially
available through Component 1 of the proposed GEF Grant financing the Nutrient Reduction
Project.

The proposed Amendment would permit the use of project savings to broaden the impact of the
original Loan and speed the realization of Hungary's commitment to reduce nutrient loads in the
Danube and the Black Sea. OP 13.25 on the use of Project cost savings normally calls for such
savings to be cancelled. However, exceptionally, the Bank may agree to apply savings to finance
additional activities not included in the original project description provided certain conditions
are met1. As explained in this paper, we consider that these conditions are fully met in this case
and thus seek the approval of the Executive Directors for an exception to Bank policy so as to
allow the use of project savings under the Loan.

Proposed Changes

The amendment proposes to modify the description of the relevant part of the Project under the
Municipal Wastewater Project to specifically add as a new activity the upgrading of the North
Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant to the tertiary level of treatment for nitrogen and
phosphorous. To that end, the modified description would read identically to the description of
Component 1 under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and Municipality of Budapest Project
Agreement of the proposed Nutrient Reduction Project. Furthermore, the amendment would
stipulate the use of the Procurement Guidelines dated May, 2004, for procurement of the new
activity.

No extension of the closing date of the Loan is expected.

Analysis

The original appraisal for the Municipal Wastewater Project included the entire wastewater
master plan and the proposed investment was therefore appraised in that context. During the
appraisal process for the proposed GEF-financed Nutrient Reduction Project, the investment was
re-appraised and found economically justified.

Through successful implementation of the South Pest nutrient removal component, the
implementing agencies have demonstrated a very high level of professionalism, validating the
expectations at project appraisal and giving strong evidence of their ability to sustainably manage
their overall operations and this proposed investment. In addition, the Borrower is in compliance
with all covenants of the Loan Agreement.

Financing Plan

The investment is estimated to cost USD 24.3 million. The financing plan includes:

    -    USD 6.5 million from the GEF Grant for the purpose of the Nutrient Reduction Project;

    -    USD 7.7 million equivalent (EUR5.9 million) from Loan 4512-HU; and

    -    USD10.1 million from Municipality of Budapest own funds.


The proposed use of cost savings will not violate the country limits on cost sharing.



1These conditions are: (a) implementation of the Project is satisfactory and includes substantial compliance
with the Agreement for the Project; (b) the additional activities have high priority and are consistent with
the original Project objectives; (c) the activities have been fully appraised by Bank staff and are
economically justified; and (d) financing the activities does not violate country limits on cost sharing.

Explanation of the reference to "Global Environment ­ Associated IBRD Fund"

Approval of this amendment would permit Loan funds to serve as parallel financing for the GEF
grant, as shown in the financing plan.     In the Project Document of the Hungary Nutrient
Reduction Project, this contribution is referred to as "Global Environment ­ Associated IBRD
Fund". This approach has been followed in other GEF-supported projects, most recently the
Bosnia and Herzegovina Water Quality Protection Project (Report No. 29832-BA, dated May 9,
2005), in which the portion allocated from the Mostar Water Credit to serve as parallel financing
is referred to as "Associated IDA Funds" in the financing description.

