Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4512 HU
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Wastewater Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST
Dated September 22, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4512 HU
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;  
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower with the technical 
assistance of the Budapest Municipal Sewerage Company Ltd. (BMSC); 
(D)
the Guarantor has obtained from the European Community (EC) in the 
framework of the Large Scale Infrastructure Facility, a grant (the EC Grant) in the 
amount of EUR 16,000,000 to be made available to the Borrower for purposes of the 
Project under terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EC Financing 
Memorandum) dated December 23, 1998, between the Guarantor and the EC; and
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower has entered into the Public Utility Service Contract of 
November 3, 1997 with BMSC (the Contract) for the provision by BMSC of sewerage 
services and sewage treatment services, including technical supervision of 
construction of sewage treatment plants; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
 “BMSC” means Budapest Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd., a limited 
liability company established pursuant to Act No. LV of 1992 of the Guarantor  based 
on the regulations established in Act No. LIV of 1992 of the Guarantor pursuant to 
Resolution No. 1317/1993 (XI.25.) of the General Assembly of the Municipality of 
Budapest and to the Deed of Foundation dated December 1, 1993, or any successor 
thereto; 
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works, goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Euro” and “EUR” each means the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty of the European Union;
(e)
“fiscal year” means the period beginning January 1 and ending December 
31;
(f)
“PIU" means the project implementation unit established by the Borrower 
within the  Mayor’s Office of the Municipality of Budapest in September 1993;
(g)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
seven million six hundred thousand Euro (EUR 27,600,000).  
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Page  3
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Euro for value 
the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during 
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the PIU with the technical assistance of BMSC with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, public utility and environmental practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain the PIU until the completion of the Project, and ensure that the PIU 
functions at all times in accordance with operating procedures and with staff and 
budgetary resources necessary to meet the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
environmental management plan agreed upon with the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and taking into consideration  the Bank’s views on 
the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof,  as 
the Bank may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditures the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
expenditures related to the 
Project.
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records and related supporting 
documents (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall  carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
Page  6
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03 (a) The Borrower shall, to the extent it has legal power, cause 
BMSC to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall, to the extent it has legal power, cause BMSC to:
(i)
have the records, accounts, and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent, 
internationally recognized auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank through the Borrower as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements for such 
year so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank through the Borrower under a confidentiality 
agreement 
such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial 
statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, if in the period succeeding the incurrence of such debt, the ratio 
of the Borrower’s projected operating surplus to the Borrower’s debt service 
obligations would fall below 1.5 for one of any two successive fiscal years or below 
1.1 for any given fiscal year.
(b)
For the purpose of this Section: 
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into, but only to the extent that the guaranteed 
debt shall be 
outstanding. 
(iii)
the term “projected operating surplus” means the excess of the 
Borrower’s 
projected total current revenues from all sources, 
including transfers from 
the Guarantor, excluding any borrowings, and 
the Borrower’s projected total 
current expenditures, excluding those 
for debt service obligations; and 
(iv)
the term “debt service obligations” means the total of interest 
and other 
financial charges, and the repayment of principal, on 
all medium and long term 
liabilities of the Borrower, including, but 
not limited to, loans and bonds. 
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall use its revenues derived from the provision of 
wastewater, flood control and drainage services (development fund, leasing fees 
related to wastewater services and dividends) only for financing operations, 
investments and debt service related thereto.
Page  7
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
take all measures necessary, including the adjustment of tariffs, to: (i) 
provide, in a timely manner each year, the Borrower's share of the financing for the 
Project; and (ii) permit BMSC to maintain sound financial and operating conditions as 
required under the Contract;
(b)
not later than January 31 of each year, exchange views with the Bank on 
the tariffs established for that year, together with information showing the basis for 
establishing said tariffs, and forecasts showing the adequacy of the tariffs to meet 
the objectives specified under paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
in the event that it is determined during said exchange of views that 
shortfalls in funds are likely to occur such as to prevent the achievement of said 
objectives, promptly to take, or, to the extent legally and practically possible, 
cause BMSC to take remedial action to cover the shortfalls.
Section 4.07.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 2001, carry out the study referred to in Part E.2 
of the Project;
(b)
not later than September 30, 2001, jointly review with the Bank the 
findings and recommendations of such study; and
(c)
by January 1, 2003, implement the recommendations of such study, taking 
into consideration the Bank’s comments on such recommendations. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall, to the extent it has the legal power and it is 
practically feasible, cause BMSC to: 
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers; 
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public 
utility  practices; and 
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank of the proposed 
modification of any material provision of the Contract and, in the event of a material 
modification affecting the provision of wastewater services or the termination of the 
Contract, the Borrower shall consult with the Bank as to the alternative arrangements 
to be adopted for the provision of wastewater services.  
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Guarantor to 
withdraw the proceeds of the EC Grant for purposes of the 
Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the 
terms of the Financing Memorandum providing 
therefor.
Page  8
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Guarantor to perform any of 
its obligations under the Financing 
Memorandum; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement. 
(b)
The Contract shall have been materially amended, suspended, abrogated or 
repealed without the prior consent of the Bank; which consent shall not unreasonably 
be withheld.
Section 6.02
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section; 
and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Termination 
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Mayor of the Municipality of Budapest is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower: 
Municipality of Budapest
Mayor’s Office
P.O. Box 1
H-1364 Budapest 4
Republic of Hungary
Cable address: 
Fax: 
                  MUNICIPALITY OF
36 1 3271811 
BUDAPEST
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Page  9
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Budapest, Republic of Hungary, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Grawe
Authorized Representative
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST
By /s/ Gabor Demszky
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
   % of
    Loan
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in EUR)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (except for 
    20,600,000
50%
Parts A.1 and C.1
of the Project)
(2)
Goods (except for 
     3,520,000
50%
Parts A.1 and C.1
of the Project)
(3)
Consultants'
       470,000
100% 
       services
(4)
Fee
       276,000
Amount due 
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
     2,734,000
TOTAL
    27,600,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of EUR 
9,300,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1998. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
Page  10
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for services under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.  Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain a special deposit account in EUR in a 
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may reasonably 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if  the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Page  11
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocations” means the equivalent of $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the equivalent of $1,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation for said 
Special  Account. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account, such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
Page  12
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce the pollution load in the 
Danube River Basin; (ii) strengthen compliance with Hungarian and European Union 
environmental standards; and (iii) improve wastewater operations in the water and 
wastewater utilities of the Borrower..
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant
1.
Upgrading plant capacity from 140,000 m3/day to an average of 155,000 m3/day and 
a peak capacity of 200,000 m3/day, while maintaining eighty percent (80%) removal of 
chemical oxygen demand and suspended solids with provision for the removal of nitrogen 
and phosphorus in the future.
2.
Upgrading of solids handling facilities.
Part B:
South Pest Wastewater Treatment Plant
1.
Upgrading and extending plant capacity from 72,000 m3/day to 80,000 m3/day, with 
the addition of  nitrogen and phosphorus removal capability and provision for 
expansion in the future to 120,000 m3/day.
2.          Upgrading and expansion of solids handling facilities.
Part C:
North Buda Wastewater and Rainwater Pumping and Collection System
1.
Construction of the Pok Street Pump Station with a capacity of 7,000 lps.
2.
Construction of the Danube River siphon at Pok Street.
3.
Construction of the North Buda Wastewater and Rainwater Collector system 
comprising 4,500 m of gravity trunk sewer and 1,800 m of pressure main. 
Part D:   Wastewater Monitoring System
Installation of a monitoring system for measuring and sampling of flows in the 
central wastewater collection network.
Part E:
Technical Assistance
1.
Carrying out of a study to recommend regulatory and technical measures to 
strengthen monitoring of industrial wastes discharged into the sewer system and to 
enforce standards related thereto. 
2.
Carry out of a study of the technical, financial and legal aspects of industrial 
Page  13
wastewater tariffs charged by BMSC to users of the wastewater system with the 
objective of implementing charges based on contaminants as well as quantity.
3.
Completion of a study to determine the source of uncommon odors at the North 
Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant and to recommend corrective measures.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in EUR)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2005
through October 15, 2014
     1,380,000
____________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in EUR to be repaid, except as 
provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
Page  14
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract other than contracts to be procured under the 
procedures referred to in Part C above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers’ published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications Services for carrying out the 
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
