                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank


                                                           Report No: ICR0000990




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-45110 IBRD-45120)

                                           ON

                                       TWO LOANS

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 2.0 MILLION


                                           TO

                        THE MUNICIPALITY OF DUNAUJVAROS

                                          AND

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 27.6 MILLION


                                           TO

                           THE MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST

                               WITH THE GUARANTEE OF

                              THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

                                          FOR A

                         MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER PROJECT

                                       May 20, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rates Effective)

           Currency Unit = Euro (EUR) and Hungarian Forint (HUF)

             April 7, 2009 USD 1.00 = EUR 0.74 = HUF 218.76

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD         Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
COD         Chemical Oxygen Demand
EIB         European Investment Bank
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
EU          European Union
EU Phare    European Union Poland-Hungary Assistance Recovery
EUR         Euro
GEF         Global Environment Facility
HUF         Hungarian Forint
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR         Implementation Status Report
LA          Loan Agreement
lcd         Liters per capita per day
LSIF        Large Scale Infrastructure Facility
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOB         Municipality of Budapest
MTR         Mid-term Review
N           Nitrogen
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations
P           Phosphorus
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PMR         Project Management Report
SS          Suspended Solids
TA          Technical assistance
TTL         Task Team Leader
USD         United States Dollar
WWTP        Wastewater Treatment Plant

                        Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Acting Country Director:         Penelope Jane Aske Williams, ECCU5
                       Sector Manager:         Wael Zakout, ECSSD
                 Project Team Leader:          Shelley Mcmillan, ECSSD
                    ICR Team Leader:           Shelley Mcmillan, ECSSD


                                  REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                       MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER PROJECT


                                                CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 13
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey............................................................................................ 30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................... 36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 37
MAP No. IBRD 36854 ..................................................................................................... 38

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Municipal Wastewater
Country:                Hungary               Project Name:
                                                                    Project
                                                                    IBRD-45110,IBRD-
Project ID:             P008497               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    45120
ICR Date:               05/20/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             MUNICIPALITIES
Original Total
                        USD 31.6M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 26.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Municipality of Dunaujvaros and Municipality of Budapest
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
European Investment Bank (EIB)
European Community Large Scale Infrastructure Facility Grant
European Union Assistance PHARE


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/03/1992    Effectiveness:                          12/16/1999
Appraisal:             06/30/1995    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/16/1999    Mid-term Review:     12/31/2002         01/15/2003
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006         12/01/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                               1                 1
Sanitation                                                   69                 69
Sewerage                                                     29                 29
Sub-national government administration                         1                 1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                          33                33
Environmental policies and institutions                       34                34
Pollution management and environmental health                 33                33


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:        Penelope Jane Aske Williams      Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:           Wael Zakout                     Ricardo A. Halperin
Project Team Leader:      Shelley Mcmillan                Richard A. MacEwen
ICR Team Leader:          Shelley Mcmillan
ICR Primary Author:      Jaroslave Kozel



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the Project are to: (a) reduce the pollution load in the
Danube River Basin; (b) strengthen the Borrower's compliance with Hungarian and EU
environmental standards; and (c) improve wastewater operations in the water and
wastewater utilities of the Borrowers.



                                            ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives remained unchanged throughout the Project implementation
period.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Reduce the pollution load from point sources in the Danube Basin by increasing
                the capacity and upgrade technologies of wastewater treatment plants

                                            Expansion of                      Secondary
                Secondary treatment                                           treatment capacity
Value           capacity in 2000            secondary                         expanded to:
quantitative or Average: 212,000 m3/d       treatment. capacity Notrevised    Average:
Qualitative)    Maximum:200,000 m3/d        Aver:250,000m3/d
                                            Max:310,000 m3/d                  250,000m3/d
                                                                              Max:310,000 m3/d

Date achieved 09/16/1999                    09/17/1999          09/17/1999    01/12/2008

Comments        Jointly with expansion of capacities, the introduction of new technology and

(incl. %        associated equipment, the treatment plants were modernized and upgraded to

achievement)   reduce the pollution load into the Danube River. The original targets were fully
               achieved.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   North Budapest WWTP: Increase average capacity
                                            Expansion to                      Expansion to
Value           Average 140,000 m3/d        155,000 m3/d                      155,000 m3/d
(quantitative   Maximum 200,000 m3/d average and               Not revised    average and
or Qualitative)                             200,000 m3/d                      200,000 m3/d
                                            maximum capacity                  maximum capacity
Date achieved 09/16/1999                    09/17/1999          09/17/1999    12/01/2008
Comments        Additional transition mains, interceptor sewers, wastewater pumping station and
(incl. %        the siphon augmented the WWTP inflow to about 150,000 m3/d thus making
achievement)    use of the plant's construction capacity.
                North Budapest WWTP: Reduction in contaminants discharged on average and
Indicator 2 :   during peak flow periods from the North Pest system. (Avg. WWTP discharges
                only in kg/d)
                Total discharges before     Discharge targets                 Annual average
Value           enlargement (year 2000) in kilograms per                      discharges (2008)
(quantitative   in kilograms per day:       day:               Not revised    in kilograms/day:
or Qualitative) BOD: 20,586                 BOD: 3,200                        BOD: 2,000
                Ammonia: 4,819              Ammonia: 5,400                    Ammonia: 4,480


                                                 iii

               Nitrogen: 7027             Nitrogen: 800                        Nitrogen: 5,860
               Phosphorus: 921            Phosphorus: 800                      Phosphorus: 310

Date achieved 09/16/1999                  09/17/1999           09/17/1999      12/01/2008

Comments       The project target for reduction of total nitrogen and the envt'l. discharge permit

(incl. %       could not be fully achieved at the time of closing but on-going upgrade for

achievement)   tertiary treatment under the GEF project will result in full compliance with that
               requirement.
Indicator 3 :  South Pest WWTP: Increase average and maximum capacity
                                          Expansion to                         Expansion to
Value                                     80,000 m3/d                          80,000 m3/d
(quantitative  72,000 m3/day              average and          Not revised     average and 90,000
or Qualitative)wastewater treated         90,000 m3/d                          m3/d maximum
                                          maximum capacity                     capacity
Date achieved 09/16/1999                  09/17/1999           09/17/1999      12/01/2008

Comments       The wastewater inflow in the plant has been steady for several years at about

(incl. %       55,000-60,000 m3/d, therefore the plant while constructed for 80,000 m3/day is

achievement)   operating below the constructed capacity. The reason is slower than expected
               new city development

Indicator 4 :  South Pest WWTP: Reduction of pollution load discharged in the River Danube
               monitored by annual average values of key pollutants.
               Total discharges before                                         Annual average
               enlargement (year2000)     Discharge targets
                                          in kilograms/day:                    discharges (2008)

Value          in kilograms/day:          BOD:800                              in kilograms/day:

(quantitative  BOD: 977                   Ammonia:320          Not revised     BOD:125

or Qualitative)Ammonia: 1,555                                                  Ammonia: 100
               Nitrogen: not measured     Nitrogen: 800                        Nitrogen: 310
               Phosphorus: 142            Phosphorus: 80                       Phosphorus: 20

Date achieved 09/16/1999                  09/17/1999           09/17/1999      12/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The project target for reduction of pollution load discharged in the Danube has

achievement)   been fully achieved.

Indicator 5 :  Dunaujvaros WWTP: Increase average and maximum capacity
                                          A new wastewater                     A new wastewater

Value                                     treatment plant                      treatment plant with

(quantitative  Wastewater treatment       with 15,000 m3/d     Not revised     15,000 m3/d

or Qualitative)plant has not existed      average and                          average and 20,000
                                          20,000 m3/d                          m3/d maximum
                                          maximum capacity                     capacity
Date achieved 09/16/1999                  09/17/1999           09/17/1999      12/01/2008

Comments       The wastewater inflow in the plant has been steady for several years at about

(incl. %       7,000 to 8,000 m3/d, i.e. the plant has been operating below the constructed

achievement)   capacity. Downsizing of the city's main employer in last several years resulted in
               out-migration of

Indicator 6 :  Dunaujvaros WWTP: Reduction of pollution load discharged in the River
               Danube monitored by annual average values of key pollutants.
Value          Wastewater treatment       Discharge targets                    Annual average
(quantitative  plant has not existed      in kilograms/day:    Not revised     discharges (2004)


                                               iv

or Qualitative)                                                             in kilograms/day:
                                          BOD:250                           BOD:42
                                          Ammonia:5                         Ammonia:17
                                          Nitrogen:100                      Nitrogen:77
                                          Phosphorus:10                     Phosphorus:17

Date achieved 09/16/1999                  09/17/1999         09/17/1999     12/01/2008

Comments       The project targets for reduction of ammonia, nitrogen, and phosphorus can't be

(incl. %       achieved with the current technology. However the BOD target has been fully

achievement)   achieved. All targets are in compliance with the discharge permit of the envt'l.
               directorate.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     04/05/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     10.34
  2     06/07/2000          Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory                 11.25
  3     12/06/2000       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                 14.29
  4     06/13/2001       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                 14.86
  5     12/19/2001       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                 15.38
  6     03/04/2002       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                 15.59
  7     08/02/2002       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                 16.46
  8     04/09/2003       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                 16.46
  9     12/22/2003       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     16.55
  10    05/14/2004       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     16.55
  11    11/03/2004       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     20.01
  12    02/22/2005       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     20.01
  13    01/16/2006       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     22.87
  14    06/20/2006       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     22.87
  15    03/29/2007       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     22.87
  16    12/10/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     24.53
  17    07/10/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     24.53
  18    11/21/2008    Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     26.80



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.       Hungary's political, economic and social programs for 1998-2000 were governed
by the country's aim to join the European Union (EU). Enforcement of environmental
standards consistent with EU was one of the requirements in the country's preparation for
EU accession. Investments in wastewater facilities have been the largest aspect of such
compliance. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which identified improvement of
environmental standards and prevention of trans-boundary transfer of pollution as a Bank
main objective, supported the Government's programs for developing wastewater
facilities which would meet EU directives and would help the Hungarian effort to join the
EU.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

2.       The key issues facing the water supply and sanitation sector in Hungary were (i)
diminishing availability of financing for investments, (ii) unrealistic and costly effluent
standards for which municipalities had to comply, (iii) limited PSP experience at the local
government level, (iv) provision of government subsidies to operating costs did not
provide an incentive to control costs, (v) fragmentation of water and wastewater services
in the country, and (vi) industrial wastewater tariffs based on volume and not
contaminant levels.

3.       In addition, the Government of Hungary was also concerned with the gap in the
level of service delivery between water supply coverage and wastewater collection and
treatment, the high cost of providing these services and the need for the country to
comply with EU standards. In response to these challenges the Government
decentralized investments in water and wastewater services to local governments. This
however resulted in a further drop in the level of wastewater collection as compared to
satisfactory levels of water supply services. The Government sought World Bank
assistance in improving the wastewater collection and treatment and moving towards
compliance with EU environmental standards in 1994. However, despite strong
Government support for this project, it took 5 years (1994 -1999) to finalize and agree on
the Project design details. Initially designed as an ambitious project that included a local
component covering seven to eight municipalities and a national component focusing on
provision of technical assistance (TA) to address sector issues, the Government reduced
the scope of the project by negotiations (held in April 1999) and requested Bank support
for only priority wastewater treatment investments in the Municipalities of Budapest and
Dunaujvaros.

4.       The primary policy aspect that was addressed by the project was the industrial
tariff issue through provision of TA provided to the Municipality of Budapest.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

5.       The Project Loan Agreement specifies three development objectives: (a) to reduce
the pollution load     in the Danube River Basin; (b) to strengthen compliance with


                                             1

Hungarian and European Union environmental standards; and (c) improve wastewater
operations in the water and wastewater utilities of the Borrower.

6.      Key performance indicators for measuring the Project's success in meeting the
PDO were: i) increase in volume of waste treated, ii) reduction in contaminants
discharged on average and during peak flow periods, and iii) financial indicators for the
Operating Companies (OC) for operation of the completed services: a) charges for water
and wastewater services to be based on full-cost recovery consistent with affordability,
and b) financial management in participating utilities according to internationally
accepted standards in the participating utilities. These indicators were the same for both
the Budapest and Dunaujvaros components. It should be noted here that although clear
targets were set for performance indicators (i) and (ii), no targets were listed in the PAD
with regard to the financial indicator (iii). However, targets for financial performance of
the Operating Companies were derived from the following for monitoring purposes:

    (a) As per projections, the PAD mentions that Dunaujvaros Water and Supply and
        Sewerage Company (DWSSC) needed to raise water and wastewater tariffs to
        HUF250 per m3 of water sold by 2003. Wastewater services tariff targets were not
        mentioned for Budapest Municipal Sewerage Company (BMSC).

    (b) Loan Agreement Article IV Section 4.06 (a) outlines legal covenants in order for
        the DWSSC and BMSC to meet required operating ratios by establishing and
        adjusting tariffs. Although a clear target was set for DWSSC to achieve an
        operating ratio of 0.75 for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2000, and equal or
        less than 0.70 throughout subsequent years of project implementation, it was left
        flexible in the event that the Municipality of Budapest wanted to increase tariffs,
        in consultation with the Bank, to maintain sound financial and operating ratios.

7.      Progress towards achieving operating ratios as required by the legal covenant in
the Loan Agreement were monitored and recorded in the ISRs and Project
Implementation Supervision Aide-memoires. Operating ratios are a good proxy for the
financial indicator (iii) in the PAD.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

8.      There were no revisions of the original PDO.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The population in the Municipality of Dunaujvaros benefited from improved
water quality in the River Danube and the population of the North Buda benefited
directly from the expanded wastewater collection and treatment services as well as
improved water quality in the Danube River. More generally, the whole population
benefited indirectly from the compliance with EU requirements from a significant




                                               2

increase in the proportion of secondary treated urban wastewater with subsequent
reduction of the pollution load in the Danube River.

1.5 Original Components

10.    The Project was financed by two World Bank loans ­ one in the amount of Euro
2.0M to the Municipality of Dunaujvaros and another in the amount of euro 27.6M to the
Municipality of Budapest. The Project had two corresponding components ­ one for
Budapest and one for Dunaujvaros as described below.

A. Budapest Component financed under the Loan to the Municipality of Budapest
included:
    1) Expansion and upgrade of the North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant
    2) Expansion and upgrade of the South Pest Wastewater Treatment Plant
    3) Construction of the North Buda wastewater/rainwater pumping and collection
    system
    4) Provision of a wastewater monitoring system
    5) Technical assistance for preparation of three studies

B. Dunaujvaros Component financed under the Loan to the Municipality of
Dunaujvaros included:
    1) Construction of a wastewater treatment plant, reconstruction of a storm overflow
    chamber, and upgrade of St. Istvan Street pumping station
    2) Technical assistance for the preparation of two studies


1.6 Revised Components

11.    There were no formal revisions of the original components.

1.7 Other significant changes

12.    The mid-term review of the Project held in January 2003 found that the costs of
the completed investments under the Budapest component were significantly below the
estimated budget. As such, the Municipality of Budapest decided to use a portion of
savings to upgrade the North Budapest WWTP to include tertiary treatment for reducing
nitrogen and phosphorus loads in wastewater discharges and to expand the plant average
capacity to 182,000 m³/day. The Bank agreed that about EUR 5.9 million from the Loan
to the Municipality of Budapest would be used for that upgrade and a two-stage bidding
process was used for the procurement of the contract. The procurement process was time
consuming and also suffered several delays and at the same time costs rose significantly.
As a result, the estimated cost for the upgrade of the North Budapest WWTP rose to
approximately EUR 12 million which was higher than the project savings.
Implementation therefore only started in early 2006 when the Government received a
GEF grant for a Nutrient Reduction Project and passed a portion of that grant in the
amount of USD 6.0M to the Municipality of Budapest for parallel financing with this



                                            3

Project for the upgrade of the North Budapest WWTP. An amendment to the Loan
Agreement dated May 2006 made this effective. It is important to note that this upgrade
of the North Budapest WWTP significantly impacted the implementation schedule for the
Budapest component as additional civil works and equipment installation were then
required.

13.     Further changes involved (a) European Investment Bank financing for Pok Street
pumping station instead of the initial local financing; (b) carrying out a feasibility study
for solid waste handling facilities for the North Budapest WWTP; and (c) the expansion
of the sanitary landfill capacity at Csomad. Also, at the request of the borrower, the Bank
amended disbursement allocations several times as specified in the Loan Agreements and
extended the Project Closing Date once from December 31, 2006 to December 1, 2008
for both loans.


2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     The project's objectives were consistent with the Government's development
priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, report no. 17257-Hu,
January, 1998). The primary objective of the CAS was to assist Hungary in economic
recovery and in joining the EU. As one of the requirements for accession into the EU,
Hungary had to put into place and enforce EU environmental standards. Given the
deteriorating wastewater coverage and treatment services and limited financial options
for new investments, the Bank recommendation was to follow a least-cost compliance
strategy towards achieving environmental standards required by EU directives. The
Project's approach was therefore to guide resources towards the most economical
investments in wastewater treatment facilities, thereby assisting the Government in
meeting their national priorities for improved services, while at the same time helping
Hungary move towards meeting EU Environmental standards.

15.     Project preparation period was too long. The lengthy preparation period was
largely due to changes in design considerations and the inability of the Government to
decide on the scope and coverage of the Project. During the long period of preparation
(1994-1999) several project alternatives were considered. Unchanged throughout the
whole process was the concept that the project should support the Government of
Hungary's program to achieve full treatment of wastewater discharges from Hungary's
23 secondary cities and Budapest. At the start of project preparation the project's key
objective was the identification and elimination of constraints to sector development in
the areas of financing, regulations, and organization. To meet this objective, the project
included a national component that would have addressed the sector constraints -
availability of financing, effluent standards, private sector participation, operating
subsidies, fragmentation and the viability of government-owned regional water
companies. The Government was, however, unwilling to borrow for technical assistance
and upon request, the national component was dropped from the project and the
objectives were revised.


                                             4

16.     The project design, appraised in 1995, also considered the creation of an
investment fund, jointly with the EU and managed by the Government. As part of the
design the Bank proposed on-lending to the water and wastewater Operating Companies
rather than to the Municipalities but the Government preferred lending directly to the
municipalities as they were the owners of the systems. The Bank agreed to lend directly
to the interested municipalities with a government guarantee. The Project initially
intended to cover seven medium-sized municipalities. EU Phare provided grants to six
(Debrecen, Dunaujvaros, Szeged, Szekesfehervar, Bekescsaba and Szolnok) and the
Bank, through the Japanese PHRD grant, to the seventh (Eger), for preparation of
feasibility studies. Upon completion of the studies, all municipalities with the exception
of the Municipality of Dunaujvaros chose to proceed with alternative financing
arrangements for the wastewater facilities. However, at the same time, the Municipality
of Budapest decided to go ahead with upgrading two wastewater treatment plants and
asked to join the project. The Bank agreed, and in 1999, the project was revised with a
redesigned scope for the municipalities of Budapest and Dunauvjarvos.

17.     The Project incorporated lessons learned from previous Bank projects and
quality of entry was satisfactory. The project design was well thought through and
reasonable in approach. It took into consideration the municipalities' commitment in
meeting the physical objectives since the main contracts had already been signed at post-
appraisal. It correctly reviewed technical, financial, and social aspects as well as critical
risks, environmental impacts with mitigation measures for implementation of the project.
There was however some degree of excess capacity in the design of the WWTPs. This
can be explained because the designs took place shortly after the fall of socialism and
before Hungary joined the EU when the expectations of fast economic development were
high. And at that time, it was difficult to discuss suitability of design parameters with the
municipalities. Moreover, lessons learned in previous Bank projects showed that they
often fell short of meeting institutional objectives. The project design appropriately
reflected the decentralization of the water and wastewater services from the central
Government to municipalities.

18.     The project design was consistent with wastewater master plans and their effluent
quality requirements. In accordance with the plans, the North and South WWTPs were to
increase the proportion of the city's secondary treated wastewater from 20 percent to 50
percent, and in Dunaujvaros from zero to over 90 percent. In the master plans, the
reduction of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) was expected only after 2010. However,
after the country joined the EU, the Municipality of Budapest revised their targets and
accelerated the investments for tertiary treatment (removal of N and P).

19.     To accelerate implementation and disbursements during project implementation,
most designs and bidding documents were completed between the time of Project
appraisal in 1996 and Board approval in 1999. Substantial retroactive disbursements
started shortly upon Project effectiveness with over 50 percent of the loans disbursed
within first two years. The key investments under the Dunaujvaros and Budapest
components were completed by December 2002.



                                              5

20.     Sufficient consideration was given to environmental and social issues and
safeguards. The project was screened and classified as category B in accordance with the
Bank's Operational Policies. Environmental Assessments associated with the investments
were carried out as per Hungarian law. Construction permits were issued by the local
environmental inspectorate and environmental reviews, as well as public consultations,
were carried out as part of the EU Phare funded feasibility studies. A social assessment
was carried out in Szeged to measure public support for the project, determine a
maximum affordable tariff and measure the willingness to pay for investments in water
pollution control. The assessments confirmed that the tariff levels necessary for full
recovery of the cost of sewerage treatment in Szeged was affordable, and that there was
wide spread support for environmental projects.

21.     Project design shortcomings. Despite the positive elements of the project design,
the following two aspects must be noted:

        (i) The monitoring framework for the Project has some weaknesses. The key
        performance indicator (iii) - financial indicators for the OCs responsible for operation
        of the completed services - relating to PDO (c) to improve wastewater investment
        financing and management in the participating utilities was not clearly spelled out
        in the PAD. However, operating ratio targets are a good proxy for this objective
        and were outlined in the Loan Agreement. In addition, the baseline data were not
        specified in the PAD. It is also important to note that targets for achievement of
        pollution reduction determined in kilograms per day should be calculated as
        averages since these values are not static and vary constantly depending on the
        pollution load and concentration of the in-flow wastewater.

        (ii) Project documents had some inconsistencies. Capacities of WWTPs specified
        in the Loan Agreements and in the Project Appraisal Document are different.
        While there is no explanation for the differences; they did not negatively impact
        the designs of the WWTPs or the achievement of the Project performance targets.


2.2 Implementation Stage (include any project changes/ restructuring, mid-term
review, Project at risk status, and actions taken, as applicable)

22.     Overall, the project was implemented in accordance with the PAD. The
Municipalities of Dunaujvaros and Budapest demonstrated their strong commitment
toward the Project and its environmental objectives. This was evident by advanced
preparation efforts made for Dunaujvaros and the South Pest components as well as the
decision by the Municipality of Budapest to expand the scope of the Project by upgrading
the North Budapest WWTP. Both municipalities established Project Implementation
Units (PIUs) in the early stages of implementation and maintained them with adequate
staff during implementation.




                                              6

23.      The project mid-term review in January 2003 confirmed satisfactory
implementation performance and found that the cost of the completed investments under
the Budapest component were below the estimated budget. The municipality reviewed
several options for the use of such savings in line with the Project's objectives and
decided on tertiary treatment upgrade and capacity expansion for the North Budapest
WWTP. The expansion of the sanitary landfill capacity for final disposal of sludge which
was also included in the Project after the mid-term review was completed in May 2007.
The pumping station and the collection system for the wastewater and rainwater in North
Buda pumping were delayed and completed only in July 2007 due to an eight month
archeological research carried out on the sites as remnants of a Roman settlement was
discovered during construction1.

24.      The Project supervision staff confirmed the high quality of all works and
equipment. All contracts, with the exception of the pumping station, and the siphon
delayed by the archeological excavations were completed within the contract schedule
and contract costs. The dedication and quality of staff in the Budapest and Dunaujvaros
PIUs, as well as a careful selection of quality consultants, contributed towards the success
of the Project. Completion of the tertiary treatment technology upgrade of the North
WWTP is planned for 2010.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.      Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were designed to measure the outcome
of each of the components with indicators defined in the Supplemental Letters to the
Loan Agreements. The key performance indicators focused on were aligned with the
project objectives, relevant and with the exception of those relating to the PDO (iii) were
well defined. In general, the monitoring and evaluation system designed for the Project
was adequate and effectively implemented.

26.      The baseline data, however, established early in supervision was not correct and
did not accurately reflect the initial pre-Project status. This was later corrected and
monitoring of the Project's physical implementation was detailed and regularly updated;
relevant changes were reflected in the procurement plans and these were routinely
reported. Reporting was done in comprehensive quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMR) prepared by the PIUs. Technical and financial aspects were satisfactorily reported
in PMRs2.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27.      Safeguard and Fiduciary requirements were adequately complied with. During
Project preparation a review of potential environmental impacts of the proposed
investments was carried out for both components. Corresponding EIAs and EMPs were
prepared and agreed with the Bank. The Hungarian authorities were working closely with


1See paragraph 29 for more details.
2While quarterly PMRs were prepared and covered all Project aspects, only the financial monitoring report
sections of the PMRs for both loans are located in the IRIS recording system.


                                                     7

the EU in reviewing Hungarian environmental standards towards compliance with EU
directives, and this provided a good basis for carrying out the required environmental
reviews.    A social assessment was carried out that indicated wide support by the
population for the project, proposed tariff increases and their willingness to pay for the
water pollution control.

Safeguards

28.      Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01): The Project was rated as an environmental
category B in accordance with the Bank's Environmental Assessment Safeguards policy.
In accordance with Hungarian law, the construction permits were provided only after
completion of environmental assessments and negative impact during construction was
mitigated in accordance with the Environmental Management Plans for the Project.

29.      Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11): This Operational Policy was not
triggered during Project preparation. However, during excavation works for the
installation of the Pok Street pumping station and the siphon near the Danube River an
old Roman settlement was discovered. The Municipality of Budapest PIU collaborated
with the Budapest Historical Museum and construction works on the site were stopped
for about eight months to allow the Budapest Historical Museum to carry out appropriate
research and to secure the artifacts.

30.      Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12): All land and right of ways required for the
Project were owned by the two municipalities. No persons were relocated and no private
land was used.

31.     Consultations: Project preparation involved public hearings for each construction
site. The meetings showed wide support for the project.

32.      Project on International Waterways (OP 7.50):           Bank regulations require
notification of other riparians on projects carried out on international waterways, such as
the Danube River. In this case the notification was not done since potential adverse
impacts were not foreseen.

Fiduciary Issues

33.      Financial Management: Financial management arrangements for the Project
accounts were satisfactory. Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports were submitted in a
timely manner and were found adequate.

34.      Procurement: The Budapest and Dunaujvaros PIU staff received training and
assistance from the Bank procurement specialist. In the early stages, procurement
proceeded satisfactorily but slowed somewhat in 2005 before proceeding in a timely
manner again towards mid-2007 through to Project completion. The delays may have
resulted due to the transition from one task team leader (TTL) to another. Reporting and
updating procurement plans were done to high standards.



                                             8

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

35.    In each instance, the facilities completed under the project were handed over
during a three month trial operation to the operating companies (the Dunaujvaros
Wastewater Treatment Services Ltd and the Budapest Metropolitan Sewerage Company).
During this period, the contractors provided operational manuals and trained operating
agency staff. The facilities have not required employment of additional personnel with
the exception of the wastewater monitoring system for which three specialists were
needed. The operation and maintenance of new facilities in Budapest were integrated
within procedures and practices of the operating agency and are sustainable.

36.    The upgrade of the North Budapest WWTP for tertiary level treatment will be
completed under the on-going GEF Nutrient Reduction Project with the civil works
finished by January 2010 and commissioning done by December 2010.

37.    It is unlikely that a similar operation will follow due to (a) full decentralization
and transfer of the water and wastewater services solely to the municipal level; (b) direct
access to EU funds for water and wastewater services with Hungary's accession to the
EU; and (c) further access to commercial financing by most of the municipalities as
already witnessed during the project's preparation.


3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High
38.    The project was consistent with Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS
document number: 17257-HU.). The primary objectives of the CAS were to help
Hungary sustain its recent economic recovery and to support the country's efforts to join
the EU - Hungary's driving political, economic and social objective for 1998-2000. As
one of the requirements for its accession into the EU, Hungary needs to progressively put
into place and enforce environmental standards that are consistent with those of the EU.

39.    The project was highly relevant to Hungary's policies and development priorities
with regard to alignment of the wastewater status with EU requirements. The objectives,
design and implementation aimed at accelerated compliance with the EU directive
requiring that after 2005 all major cities of EU member states have wastewater collection
system and wastewater secondary treatment, while those discharging into sensitive waters
have tertiary treatment with substantial reduction of nitrogen and phosphorus.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
40.    The project contributed reasonably towards reducing further pollution in the
Danube River Basin. With respect to the first development objective which aimed at


                                                9

directly reducing the pollution load in the Danube River Basin, the WWTPs were
completed as scheduled. As of 2002, the WWTPs have been operating successfully,
thereby contributing to the reduction of the pollution load in the Danube River. In
addition, the operation of the WWTPs has also increased the share of wastewater with
secondary treatment in the Municipality of Dunaujvaros from nil to 98 percent and in the
Municipality of Budapest from 20 percent to 50 percent. Effluent standards for
wastewater discharges were met in all cases, meeting the project's second development
objective aimed at strengthening Borrowers' compliance with Hungarian and EU
environmental standards.

41.     With respect to the third objective which aimed to improve wastewater operations
in the water and wastewater utilities of the Borrowers, adequate financing of satisfactory
operation and maintenance of the wastewater facilities through fair and affordable tariffs
was successfully achieved, albeit indirectly. In the Municipality of Budapest, the
wastewater operations were contracted to a private contractor. The Municipality of
Dunaujvaros has not been able to comply with the operation ratio required by the Bank
covenant. The municipality chose to maintain low affordable wastewater tariffs adequate
for satisfactory operation and maintenance but to finance wastewater capital requirements
separately from the municipal budget.

42.     In May 2006, the project was modified by adding capacity and tertiary treatment
to the North Budapest WWTP. That extensive change could not be fully implemented by
the time of project closing. As such, the first development objective was not fully
achieved. For this reason, the DO rating in the final ISR is moderately satisfactory and is
maintained as moderately satisfactory at project closing. It is expected that the upgrade
of the North Budapest WWTP will be completed under the on-going GEF Nutrient
Reduction Project with the civil works finished by January 2010 and commissioning done
by December 2010.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Cost benefit NPV=USD10.86 million; ERR = 13 %
43.     Economic estimate of environmental benefits. The project resulted in substantial
environmental benefits from the reduction of untreated wastewater and from the
reduction of BOD and nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) discharged into international
waters. With benefits from the reduction of one ton of nutrients estimated at USD 5,000
and one ton of BOD estimated at USD 15.00, the net present value of the project
environmental benefits (discounted to 1999) was calculated at USD10.6 million. The
Economic Rate of Return is 13 percent which demonstrates healthy economic viability of
the wastewater treatment systems built under the project and also confirms their efficient
contribution towards pollution reduction of the Danube River.

44.     Financial Status. The operating utilities were to mobilize additional financial
resources to finance operation, maintenance, and repair cost of the WWTPs, with the
exception of the loan repayments. The tariffs were maintained adequately to cover such
costs. The increased wastewater tariff, however, did not bring substantial increase in


                                            10

costs for residential users. The wastewater companies used the water sales as a proxy for
wastewater charges; however, the water sales were gradually decreasing due to a new
metering policy, leak reduction, and other demand management actions implemented by
the water supply companies in both cities. Since 1999, when the metering programs in
both cities was completed, per capita water consumption declined from 350 lcd to about
100-150 lcd in both cities. This helped to keep the average household payment per month
at an affordable level, despite higher tariffs.

45.     Sustainability. Sustainability is guaranteed by strong commitment of the
Government to implement EU water and wastewater directives in the country.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
46.     The overall rating for outcome is based on i) the high relevance of the project
objectives, (ii) the fact that most of the development objectives were achieved in a
satisfactory and efficient manner, iii) the sustainability of project outcomes is predicted to
remain high due to strong commitment from the Government, and iv) although the
tertiary treatment upgrade of the North Budapest WWTP could not be fully implemented
by the time of project closing it is expected to be completed under the on-going GEF
Nutrient Reduction Project.

47.     In addition, the project was rated as highly satisfactory in terms of achievement of
the development objectives for more than 70 percent of the implementation period. As
such, there were only minor shortcomings in the achievement of the project objectives and as a
result, the overall outcome rating is found to be satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.     The direct impact of the project on lower-income urban populations and other
vulnerable groups was not foreseen at the time of appraisal, and no poverty analysis was
conducted at the preparation stage. Gender issues in this project were not deemed
relevant and were therefore not specifically considered. There are no apparent adverse
impacts on vulnerable groups at project closing.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     Overall the project generated modest institutional development impact aimed at
sustainable operations of targeted wastewater facilities. In the Municipality of
Dunaujvaros the project study of alternative management of the wastewater treatment
plant lead the municipality to establish a separate entity, the Dunaujvaros Wastewater
Treatment Services Ltd, which proved to be successful from January 2003. As of 1997,
the Municipality of Budapest wastewater facilities has successfully been operated by a




                                               11

private company. In both municipalities the project demonstrated good practices in
preparing, appraising, financing and implementing municipal infrastructure projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

50.     The generation of biogas3 at the South Pest WWTP was significantly increased by
adding perishable wastes collected separately from the general municipal waste (which
otherwise would go to the landfill) to the raw sludge entering the sludge digesters. That
improvement is an innovation not contemplated in the original project design and made
possible only by improvements to sludge management technology provided by the
project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

51.     A sample social assessment was carried out in the Municipality of Szeged in
1996, to measure public support for the project, determine a tariff and measure
willingness of the public to pay for investments in water pollution control. The
assessment confirmed that the tariff levels necessary for full recovery of costs of
wastewater treatment were affordable and that there was widespread public support for
the project. The Municipality of Szeged, the third largest in the country, was an early
candidate for participation in the project, but was not included finally. The Municipality
of Szeged is however considered typical of the other candidates; and while a beneficiary
survey for the project was not done at completion, the findings of the social assessment
for the Municipality of Szeged were therefore considered applicable to municipalities of
Dunaujvaros and Budapest.

4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Low
52.     The likelihood that some changes may occur that are detrimental to the ultimate
achievement of the project's development outcomes are low. There are no risks related to
sustainability of the project's impact. The Government's focus on infrastructure drives
increased financing to the municipal wastewater infrastructure sub-sector to comply with
EU requirements and wastewater secondary treatment standards.




3Biogas typically refers to a gas produced by the biological breakdown of organic matter in the absence of
oxygen. Biogas originates from biogenic material and is a type of bio-fuel.




                                                    12

5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
53.    Overall, the Bank team prepared a well designed and relevant project in
collaboration with the municipalities and donors. However, while the Bank team
understood the problems that existed in the water and wastewater services sector, the
team initially tried to cover too many municipalities within the scope of the project. The
overall project design at the concept stage (1994) was overly ambitious particularly with
trying to improve broader sector issues at the national level. The ambitious scope
combined with Government indecisiveness led to a lengthy preparation period of 5 years
between approval of concept and approval of the project by the Board. During this
period, the project design was also modified which also contributed towards lengthening
the project preparation phase. Nevertheless, the team established good relations in the
sector and collaborated closely with the counterparts to ensure adherence to Bank
fiduciary requirements. The composition of the Bank team was adequate. On balance,
shortcomings in the Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry were considered
marginal; hence the quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory
54.    Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated and the project was
adequately supervised. The supervision team included the appropriate mix of skills, and
specialized support for procurement and financial management was provided as needed.
The supervision team effectively supported collaboration between municipalities and
their operating agencies and helped solve potential disagreements. Supervision missions
were carried out at routine six month intervals and Aide-memoires were regularly
prepared. However, although the performance in terms of both achievement of objectives
and implementation status were realistically rated in the ISRs with respect to the first and
second PDO objectives, the third project objective aimed at improving wastewater
operations in the utilities was not captured on a regular basis in the ISRs, perhaps because
corresponding indicators were not clearly defined in the PAD.                  Nevertheless,
performance in improving operating ratios as required by the Loan Agreement were
monitored and reported in the ISR and Aide-memoires. From 2004, the supervision team
also became engaged in preparing the GEF-supported Nutrient Reduction Project (GEF
TF 055978-HU), which shares financing of the tertiary treatment upgrade at the North
Budapest WWTP.

55.    Changes of the task team leader (TTL) and the supervision team may to some
extent have affected the supervision performance. Over the eight years of the
implementation period, the TTL changed four times and the water sector specialist twice.
The missions' Aide Memoires, ISRs and action letters, extensively reported on



                                             13

contracting and disbursement progress. A bit more attention to the technical status of
works in progress and explanations for delays would have been useful. In addition, the
baseline data established in early supervision stages were incorrect and did not accurately
reflect the initial pre-project status.  Nevertheless, the project achieved all the key
performance targets. Later, changes in the project scope i.e., inclusion of new
investments resulted in an extension of the Closing Date. While the WWTPs which
represented the major investments under the project were completed by 2002, the
implementation of the smaller remaining components extended to mid-2007.                 For
example, contracts for the North Budapest landfill and the North Buda collection system
were only awarded in March and May 2005 respectively and hence implementation only
completed in mid-2007. Similarly, the initial procurement stages (pre-qualification,
preparation of bidding documents, etc.) for the tertiary treatment upgrade at the North
Budapest WWTP were not concluded until August 2007. This may have been due to
tardy responses on the procurement from the Bank. However, the situation significantly
improved from January to December 2008. The bids for the tertiary treatment upgrade at
the North Budapest WWTP were received in January 2008, the evaluation process was
promptly conducted in February 2008 and the contract awarded in July 2008.

56.     On balance, over the entire eight year period of project implementation, the
quality of Bank supervision is rated satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
57.     The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory because the Bank team
was fully engaged throughout project preparation and implementation and demonstrated a
high level of professionalism and expertise. At times, supervision of the project may not
have been optimal due to transition periods between TTL changes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory
58.     The Government, including the Ministry of Finance and the Municipalities of
Budapest and Dunaujvaros, participated actively in project preparation. During
preparation, the Government delayed the decision to borrow for the municipal sector, and
later substantial time was also spent on discussing the project design. As a result, it took
approximately 30 months from project concept to reach project appraisal and then
another 53 months for the project to be approved and become effective. However, once
these issues during preparation were cleared, the Government performance over the life
of the project was fully satisfactory.

59.     The Borrower demonstrated its full commitment during project implementation.
As such the Government performance is rated as satisfactory.




                                            14

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory
60.     At the onset of the project, both municipalities established and maintained PIUs.
The PIUs were appropriately and adequately staffed with fully qualified and motivated
professionals. The PIU staff comprised permanent employees in the Municipality of
Budapest and part time employees in the Municipality of Dunaujvaros. The PIUs were
responsible for managing and implementing the project and were the main links with the
Bank.    They were fully responsible for ensuring that the project was implemented
efficiently in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreements and the World
Bank's safeguards and fiduciary guidelines. Project management and reporting were
timely and of high quality. As such, the performance is rated satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory
61.     Although several delays and challenges were faced during project preparation
causing a total of 83 months of delay before the project was made effective, once project
design was finalized and agreed upon the Borrower agencies demonstrated unwavering
political will and commitment to the project. In general implementation went well but
progress slowed after the mid-term review and the completion of the project was also
delayed. This was primarily due to the inclusion of the additional investments. Despite
this however, the PIU continued to manage the implementation of the project as
efficiently as possible. Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated
satisfactory.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

62.     The main lessons drawn from the implementation of this project are the
following:

63.     Design parameters should match more closely conditions on the ground.
Designed shortly after the fall of socialism and before Hungary joined the EU, the
expectations of fast economic development were high. At that time, it was therefore
difficult to discuss suitability of design parameters with the municipalities. As a result,
the WWTPs have been built and are operating with some unused capacity. In the case of
the WWTP in the Municipality of Dunaujvaros, the downsizing of the city's main
employer in last several years resulted in out-migration of some of the population. While
similar over-design may not recur, both the World Bank and its clients in future should
carefully review demand projections to ensure realistic designs.

64.     Careful consideration is required when new investments are to be introduced
during Project implementation. The mid-term review carried out in January 2003
identified substantial savings under the Loan to the Municipality of Budapest. The Bank
agreed to the use the savings for additional project-related investments, including the
upgrade of the North Budapest WWTP. However, the feasibility studies, designs and



                                             15

procurement processes for these new investments were time consuming requiring
extension of the project closing date in order to complete implementation. Bank approval
for the use of savings towards new investments within a project under implementation
should not only cover the technical and other Bank eligibility criteria but also include a
comprehensive assessment of the implementation period from design to commissioning
for the investments.

65.     More effective collaboration is required between World Bank procurement and
disbursement processes. The contract for the tertiary treatment upgrade of the North
Budapest WWTP included the schedule of payments to the contractor. This contract was
submitted to the Bank for review and no-objection to the award of the contract was given.
However, just prior to the project closing, the last withdrawal application for payment to
the contractor was rejected on the basis that the works were not executed and the goods
not delivered prior to the project closing date. It is therefore imperative that during the
contract approval processes, procurement and disbursement aspects are properly
coordinated to prevent similar recurrences.

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

66.     The Municipality of Budapest has commented on the Bank's rejection of the last
withdrawal application for payment to the contractor for work executed and goods
ordered in relation to the tertiary treatment upgrade for the North Budapest WWTP after
the Loan Closing Date. They argued that on the basis of a contractor's schedule
submitted to the Bank along with the contract for no-objection, it was agreed initially that
the works and goods would be financed from the Loan. However, since the Bank's
guidelines stipulate that works must be completed and goods delivered by the date of the
closing, the last invoice was rendered ineligible for payment from the Loan.

67.     The Municipality of Budapest raised objections to the lengthy process of issuing
"no-objections" in compliance with the various steps of the Bank's procurement process,
citing that this contributed to project delays. Their comment referred primarily to the two-
stage bidding process for the tertiary treatment upgrade of the North Budapest WWTP,
which was a completely new procurement process for the Borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers

68.     No comments were received.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

(e.g., NGOs/private sector/civil society)
69.     There was no involvement by NGOs and civil society with the exception of a
short cooperation between the Municipality of Budapest PIU and the Budapest Historical




                                              16

Museum to ensure the safeguarding of an old Roman settlement discovered during
excavation at the Pok Street pumping station and the siphon.




                                           17

                         ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING


(a) Project Cost
                                 Appraisal      Latest     Appraisal        Latest        Percent
         Components               Estimate     Estimate     Estimate      Estimate           of
                                              (12/2008)                   (12/2008)     Appraisal
                                        USD 000                    EUR 000                   %
Dunaujvaros                           7,675       10,642         8,811         9,118        103
Budapest                            64,977       101,376        73,108       84,480         116
Total Baseline Cost                 72,652       112,318        81,919       93,598         114
Physical Contingencies                7,265             0            0              0        0
Price Contingencies                   8,714             0            0              0        0
Total Project Cost                  88,631       112,318        81,919       93,598         114
Front-end fee PPF                          0            0            0              0        0
Front-end fee IBRD                      354           354          295           295        100
Total Financing                     88,891       112,670        82,214       93,893         114


(b)Project Financing
                                 Appraisal      Latest     Appraisal        Latest        Percent
       Source of Funds            Estimate     Estimate     Estimate      Estimate        of Appr
                                              (12/2008)                   (12/2008)
                                        USD 000                    EUR 000                   %
IBRD Loan                           31,600       34,699*        29,600       28,916          98
EU LSIF + Phare Grants              20,200        20,705        18,924       17,254          91
Europ. Investment Bank Loan                0        3,576            0         2,980          -
Government Grant                    12,100        11,644        11,400         9,703         85
Municipal funds                     25,000        42,046        23,329       35,040         150
Total Financing                     88,900       112,670        83,253       93,893         128




*The final disbursement was USD39.5M as of March 18, 2009 which marked the end of the grace period.




                                              18

                           ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT


70.    The Project provided following outputs:

A) Dunaujvaros Component

71.    The Municipality of Dunaujvaros (55,000) collects its wastewater by a combined
system over 2/3 of the city and by a separate system in the rest. Prior to the Project all
wastewater was discharged into the Danube without treatment. The output of the
Dunaujvaros component is as follows:

    Wastewater treatment and transmission: It includes (a) construction of a new
   primary and secondary wastewater treatment plant with a maximum capacity of
   20,000 m3/d at primary (mechanical) treatment and secondary capacity for an average
   flow (dry flow) of 15,000 m3/d, comprising fine screening, flow measurement,
   primary settling, biological treatment units, secondary settlement, sludge dewatering
   on centrifuges, connecting mains and outfall with chlorination in emergencies; the
   dewatered sludge is disposed at the municipal landfill; (b) reconstruction of the
   existing storm overflow chamber at the intersection of Panorama and Kohasz Streets;
   and (c) upgrading of St. Istvan Street pumping station to meet new pumping
   conditions. The plant started operations from January 1, 2003.

    The average wastewater inflow in the plant has been steady for several years at
   about 7,000 to 8,000 m3/d, i.e., substantially below the constructed capacity. There
   are several reasons: the downsizing of the steel mill, the city's main employer in the
   last several years resulted in out-migration of population; improved measurement of
   water sales with higher tariffs resulted in a drop of water use from over 200 liters per
   capita and day (lcd) to near 150 lcd; also of the six neighboring villages planned to be
   connected to the plant only four are now slowly joining the system. Subsequently
   only one of the three biological units of the treatment plant is now being operated.

    Technical assistance: A project study of alternatives for operation of the
   wastewater treatment plant was completed in December 2001 and recommendations
   were fully used by the municipality for setting up procedures and systems for a
   recently established company responsible for the new treatment plant (Dunaujvaros
   Wastewater Treatment Services Ltd).

    A project feasibility study on the use of sewage sludge for reclamation of slag
   deposits at the steel plant and at the closed landfill site was completed in March 1998.
   The municipality accepted the study recommendations indicating the final disposal of
   the treatment plant sludge at the municipal landfill as optimum solution.




                                             19

B) Budapest Component

72.     The Municipality of Budapest (1.8 million) collects its wastewater by a combined
sewer system in 70 percent of the city area and by a separate sewer system in the rest.
The component expanded and upgraded the North Budapest and the South Pest WWTPs
increasing the biologically treated wastewater generated in the city from 20 percent to
about 50 percent.4 The output of the Budapest component is as follows:

     The North Wastewater Treatment Plant: The Project expanded the plant capacity
    from 140,000 m³/d to an average dry flow of 155,000 m³/d, maintained its maximum
    capacity of 200,000 m³/day and upgraded its technology by construction of high rate
    sedimentation tanks, expanded activated sludge tanks, upgraded secondary
    sedimentation, and provided filter presses for sludge dewatering. The sanitary landfill
    for sludge final disposal located at Csomad 30 km from the plant was substantially
    expanded. The treatment plant started operation from January 2003 and the sanitary
    landfill from May 2007.

     The sludge management has changed during 2008 when recently completed
    sludge digesters started operation. The water content of primary and secondary sludge
    is now brought down in thickening tanks, and only digested sludge is dewatered at
    filter presses.

     The South Pest Wastewater Treatment Plant: The component extended the plant
    capacity from 72,000 m³/d to an average dry flow capacity of 80,000 m³/d with a
    provision for expansion to120,000 m³/d. The technology upgrading included a
    capability for nitrogen and phosphorus removal, and a reconstruction of sludge
    handling facilities. A new rainwater reservoir for pre-treatment of the storm
    overflows at the plant was also constructed. Digested and dewatered sludge is
    disposed through a private composting company which sells the sludge for gardening
    or agriculture after composting or for rehabilitation of badlands. The treatment plant
    started operation from April 2001.

     The wastewater inflow in the plant has been steady for several years at about
    55,000-60,000 m3/d, i.e., below the constructed capacity. There are several reasons:
    only 75 percent of area population is connected to the sewer system; the development
    of new house construction is slower than expected; and the water use per capita is
    smaller than projected.

     North Buda wastewater/rainwater pumping and collection system: The system
    includes 9 km of gravity and pressure sewers with large diameters collecting
    rainwater and wastewater from Districts III and IV in the North Buda, serving
    population of about 15,000. The collected wastewater arrives in the new Pok Street
    pumping station which delivers 750 l/s through a 3 km long new siphon under the


4The Central WWTP under construction with capacity of 250,000 m3/d will increase the percentage of
biologically treated wastewater to 99percent.


                                               20

   Danube to the North Plant. Flows above 750 l/s are discharged in the river. The
   system started operation from July 2007.

    Wastewater monitoring system: The system consists of nine fully automatic
   monitoring - warning stations to measure the flow and to sample the key wastewater
   quality parameters in wastewater collection system connected to the North Budapest
   and South Pest WWTPs. The monitored parameters include pH, conductivity, and
   sulfur. The system is integrated with the plants operation and is functional from
   November 2007.

    Technical assistance: A project study recommending measures to strengthen
   monitoring of industrial wastes discharged into the sewer system and to enforce
   related standards was completed in February 2003 and served as background for
   implementation of wastewater monitoring system.

    A project study of the technical, financial and legal aspects of industrial
   wastewater tariffs charged by BMSC to users of the wastewater system with the
   objective of implementing charges based on contaminants as well as quantity was
   completed in March 2003. The municipality accepted the study conclusion that such
   an option is unsuitable for Budapest for the time being.

    A project study to determine the source of uncommon odors at the North
   Budapest WWTP determined that the major source of odor problem were factories
   near the WWTP. In spite of that the treatment units developing odor are covered and
   the air is cleaned in filters.

                                  KEY OUTCOME INDICATORS
              Dunaujvaros: Annual Averages at Outlet of the Treatment Plant
 Year         Flow        COD       BOD5       N-NH3      Total N   Total P     SS
              m3/d                              mg/l and kg/day
Discharge Permit *             125       25          10         50        10        35
1999        Under                --     332                     61        12       215
2000        construc
2001        tion
2002
2003        8,670               39        5           2        11          2        10
                               338       43          17        95         17        86
2004        8,670               30        5           2          9         2         7
                               260       43          17        78         17        60
2005        8,480               28        6           1          8         2         8
                               237       50           8        68         17        68
2006        7,960               24        5           1          6         1        10
                               191       39           8        48          8        79
2007        8,420               27        6           2          7         2        13
                               227       50          17        59         17       109
2008        6,090               24        6           2          8         2        11
                               146       36          12        48         12        67



                                           21

              North Budapest: Annual Averages at Outlet of the Treatment Plant
  Year          Flow        COD         BOD5        N-NH3       Total N        Total P   SS
                m3/d                                 mg/l and kg/day
Discharge Permit *              125          25             --          10            4     35
1999           115,500           58          10             20            -         4.3    15
                              6,700       1,160         2,310                      500   1,730
               118,100           58          13             26            -         4.3    12
2000                          6,850       1,540         3,070                      510   1,420
                 51,900          61          14             23          30          4.8    13
2001                          3,160       1,230         1,350        1,560         250    670
                 87,900          67          19             22          33          3.4     8
2002                          5,890       1,670         1.930        2,900         300    700
               152,800           72          19             21          30          2.4    12
2003                         11,000       2,900         3,210        4,580         370   1,830
               151,500           60          12             24          31          2.3     9
2004                          9,040       1,820         3,640        4,700         350   1,360
               150,600           57          13             17          24          1.7     7
2005                          8,580       1,960         2,560        3,610         260   1,050
               150,000           70          13             25          27          2.0     8
2006                         10,500       1,950         3,750        3,730         300   1,200
               138,200           69          13             23          34          1.9     9
2007                          9,540       1,800         3,180        4,700         260   1,240
               154,400           72          13             29          38          2.0     9
2008                         11,120       2,000         4,480        5,870         310   1,390
* Permit issued by the Mid-Danube Environmental Protection and Water Directorate



                 South Pest: Annual Averages at Outlet of the Treatment Plant
  Year          Flow        COD         BOD5        N-NH3       Total N        Total P   SS
                m3/d                                 mg/l and kg/day
Discharge Permit *               50           --             2       ** 20          1.8     --
1997             56,770            -         21              -          34          2.5    21
                                          1,190                      1,930         140   1,190
                 52,300          67          28          28.7           29          2.7    23
1998                          3,500       1,460         1,500        1,520         140   1,200
                 54,200          65          15          13.0           13          3.8    13
1999                          3,520        810            700          700         210    700
                 58,180          42          10            1.3          14          1.1    10
2000                          2,440        580              90         810           64   580
                 59,160          50          10            1.5          12          1.2     3
2001                          2,960        590              90         710           70   180
                 56,700          52          12            1.9          11          1.5     3
2002                          2,950        680            110          620           85   170
                 57,340          52          11            1.4          15          1.3     6
2003                          2,980        630              80         860           70   340
                 60,450          45          12            1.3          12          1.6     5
2004                          2,720        730            100          730         100    300
                 59,900          43          12            0.6          14          0.9     4
2005                          2,580        720              40         840           50   240


                                                22

                 60,500            40           10            1.6          14        0.9            5
2006                          2,420           600            100         850          50        300
                 53,000            33           10            1.4          9         0.3            4
2007                          1,750           530             70         480          20        210
                 62,400            31           10            1.6          5         0.3            4
2008                          1,930           620            100         310          20        250
* Permit issued by the Mid-Danube Environmental Protection and Water Directorate
** Temporary exception valid until 2009 issued on request of the WWTP

                                                                          Status
        Key Performance Indicators                        Budapest                Dunaujvaros
                (PAD Annex 1)
1) Charges for wastewater services are based                                       Adequate for
on full-cost recovery consistent with                         Yes             operation; municipality
affordability                                                                  finances investments
2) Financial management in participating
waste water utilities has been carried out in                 Yes                      Yes
accordance with internationally accepted
standards
3) Municipal investments in wastewater              New WWTP to help          No new investments in
treatment is increased and based on                 treating the city's all    wastewater is needed
prioritizing and phasing                              wastewater under
                                                         construction




                                                  23

                     ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

                          (including assumptions in the analysis)

A) Environmental Benefits

73.     The wastewater operational performance parameters for each WWTP are in the
tables below.

Table 1: Dunaujvaros Annual Wastewater and Nutrient Discharges into the Danube River

                Parameter                   Unit       1997 (Baseline)           2007

Annual wastewater treated                  M m³/yr             0.0                3.0
Annual flow of untreated wastewater        M m³/yr             3.2                 0
N content untreated wastewater              mg/l              80.0               87.0
P content untreated wastewater              mg/l               5.0                5.5
N content at the WWTP outlet                mg/l               80                 7.0
P content at the WWTP outlet                mg/l               5.0                2.0
N discharges total                          Ton/yr            256                21.0
P discharges total                          Ton/yr             16                 6.0
Total nutrients                            Ton/yr             272                27.0
Total BOD Discharged                       Tons/yr            800                 30

Table 2: North Budapest Annual Wastewater and Nutrient Discharges into the Danube River

                Parameter                   Unit       1997 (Baseline)           2007

Annual wastewater treated                  M m³/yr            51.1               50.4
Annual flow of untreated wastewater        M m³/yr             0.0                0.0
N content untreated wastewater              mg/l                -                59.0
P content untreated wastewater              mg/l               6.6                9.8
N content at the WWTP outlet                mg/l              40.0               34.0
P content at the WWTP outlet                mg/l              4.28                1.9
N discharges total                          Ton/yr           2,040              1,715
P discharges total                          Ton/yr            218                 95
Total nutrients                            Ton/yr            2,258              1,810
Total BOD Discharged                       Tons/yr            660                 655




                                            24

Table 3: South Pest Annual Wastewater and Nutrient Discharges into the Danube River

                 Parameter                            Unit       1997 (Baseline)              2007

Annual wastewater treated                           M m³/yr              20.7                 19.3
Annual flow of untreated wastewater                 M m³/yr                0                    0
N content untreated wastewater                        mg/l               80.0                 87.0
P content untreated wastewater                        mg/l               5.0                  5.5
N content at the WWTP outlet                          mg/l               34.0                 9.0
P content at the WWTP outlet                          mg/l               2.5                  0.3
N discharges total                                   Ton/yr              703                  170
P discharges total                                   Ton/yr               52                    6
Total nutrients                                      Ton/yr              755                  176
Total BOD Discharged                                Tons/yr              430                  190

74.      Environmental benefits: Total annual reduction of untreated wastewater is 3.2
million m³/y. The treatment reduced the BOD discharges by 1,015 tons/y and the
nutrients by 1,232 tons/y.

75.      Operational cost: The implementation of secondary and tertiary treatment
resulted in some increase of the operational costs in South Pest WWTP by about
$708,000 a year, and in Dunaujvaros by $1.8 million. This increase is due to higher
electricity consumption and hiring additional staff. North Budapest WWTP did not have
increase its operational costs as it in fact reduced operational staff due to improved
technological process.

76.      Economic estimate of environmental benefits: The Project resulted in
environmental benefits from reduction of untreated wastewater, excess of BOD and
nutrient (P and N) discharges into international waters. The estimated benefit from the
reduction of one kilogram of nutrients is about USD5.005 and net benefit of one tone of
BOD is $15.006, the net present value of the environmental benefits (discounted to 1999)
that the Project produced through the reduction of BOD and nutrient discharges has been
calculated at USD10.64 million. The ERR is 13percent.

B) Financial Status of the Water Utilities


5The figure of 5 USD per kg has been adopted on the basis of available references, such as: $2/kg proposed
by G. Constantinides (Cost-Benefit Analysis Case Studies in Eastern Africa for the GPA Strategic Action
Plan on Sewage. UNEP, 2000); 62 SEK/kg ($7.36/kg) proposed for the marginal benefit of N-reduction
proposed by I.M. Gren and H. Folmer (Cooperation vs. Non-Cooperation in Cleaning of an International
Water Body with Stochastic Environmental Damage: The Case of the Baltic Sea. Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, September, 2001), 11.50 EUR/kg as the critical emission "tax" level for the
removal of P from detergents, as proposed by I. Ijjasz (Reducing Phosphorus in the Danube Basin
Workshop, Hungary, 1995) and 47 SEK/kg ($5.58/kg) and 112 SEK/kg ($13.30/kg) for the marginal cost
of the reduction of nitrogen and phosphorous to coastal waters, as proposed by K. Elofsson (Cost efficient
reductions of stochastic nutrient loads to the Baltic Sea, Paper presented at the 7th Ulvoe conference 19-21
June 2000)
6Dasgupta, Susmita, Huq, Minul, Wheeler, David, Chonghua Zhang Water pollution abatement by Chinese
industry: cost estimates and policy implications. The World Bank Policy Research Working Paper, 1630,
1996


                                                      25

77.     The Project required WWTPs to mobilize additional financial resources to finance
operation costs, maintenance and rehabilitation of the constructed infrastructure,
according to agreed financial targets to be fulfilled by the utility. It did not require
repayment of the loan.

78.     Budapest: Upgrading of the North Budapest WWTP did not result in higher
operational cost due to reduction of the operating staff and installation of efficient
electrical equipment. The South Pest WWTP operation costs increased after
commissioning of the tertiary treatment process by $780,000 a year. In order to
accommodate these costs, the Municipality of Budapest wastewater tariffs were increased
about three times since 1999. The current tariffs are adequate for efficient operation and
maintenance of both WWTPs. The working ratio for the company is 0.80.

79.     Dunaujvaros: The wastewater tariff was implemented in the Municipality of
Dunaujvaros as soon as the WWTP went in operation. The municipality conducted an
efficient program describing the needs for implementation of such tariffs and covering
cost of the WWTP operation. The current tariff is adequate to cover operation and
maintenance of the utility. In order to increase revenue, the WWTP has two tariff systems
for domestic and industrial consumers, with tariffs for the latter higher by about 30
percent. This can be considered reasonable due to the higher cost of treatment of the
industrial wastewater. However, these tariffs did not result in operation ratio of 0.70 that
was originally set for the investment. The current working ratio is 0.90. The WWTP is
planning gradual increase of tariffs in order to accommodate the working ratio targets.

                                    Wastewater tariffs
                           Hungarian Forint per m³ of wastewater

           YEAR                         Dunaujvaros                     Budapest

            1999                               -                           83.1
            2000                               -                           97.1
            2001                               -                          106,8
            2002                               -                          114.0
            2003                             110.00                       122.4
            2004                             113.30                       162,1
            2005                             116.70                       186.1
            2006                             125.00                       197.0
                                  Residential     Non-residential           -
            2007                   116.30           144.40                215.5
            2008                   122,70           147,30                237.0

80.     Financial Effect of Investments on Consumers: As it was mentioned above, the
increased tariff is enough to cover all operation and maintenance costs. The increased
tariff, however, did not bring substantial increase in costs for domestic consumers due to
new metering policy, leak reduction, and other demand management actions implemented
by the water supply companies in both cities (and wastewater companies use the water
consumption level as a proxy for wastewater services). Since 1999, the year of
completion of the metering programs in both cities, per capita consumption declined from


                                              26

350 liters per capita a day to about 101-150 liters. This helps to keep the average
household payment per month at the affordable level, despite higher tariffs.

81.    Sustainability: Sustainability of investments is guaranteed by strong commitment
of the Government to implement EU water and wastewater directives in the country. The
wastewater investments and their operational status are supported by the EU cohesion
funds.




                                            27

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES



(a) Task Team members


        Names                       Title              Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Richard MacEwen      Sanitary Engineer                ECSIN             TTL
Krisztina Kiss       Economist                        ECSSD         Economist
Ann Elwan            Economist                          -           Economist
Lee Travers          Economist                        CSFSD         Economist
Krisztiam Koma       Economist                          -           Economist
Kishore Nadkarni     Financial Analyst               ECSSD       Financial Analyst
Brian Smith          Financial Analyst                ECSSD      Financial Analyst
Sumeet Thakur        Financial Analyst                CSFDR      Financial Analyst
Gyorgy Novotny       Procurement Specialist             -     Procurement Specialist
Eszter Kovacs        Procurement Specialist             -     Procurement Specialist

Stanley Peabody      Social Assessment Specialist     ECSSD      Social Assessment
                                                                     Specialist

Colin Lyle           Financial Management Specialist    -     Financial Management
                                                                     Specialist

Samia Msadek         Financial Management Specialist MNAFM    Financial Management
                                                                     Specialist


Supervision/ICR
Krisztina Kiss       Economist                        ECSSD             TTL
Hiran Herat          Fin. Management Specialist       SASDI Fin. Management Specialist
Eszter Kovacs        Procurement Specialist             -     Procurement Specialist
Takao Ikegami        Economist                        ECSSD  Senior Sanitary Engineer
Andreas Rohde        Senior Sanitary Engineer         ECSSD  Senior Sanitary Engineer
Manuel Mariño        Lead Water/Sanitation Specialist ECSSD             TTL
Emilio H. Rodriguez  Consultant                       LCSPT         Consultant
Henry Laiño          Consultant                      LCSUW          Consultant
X. Chauvot De                                                  Water and Sanitation
Beauchene            Infrastructure Specialist        MNSSD          Specialist

Salim Benouniche     Lead Procurement Specialist     MNAPR       Lead Procurement
                                                                     Specialist
Luis Gabriel Azevedo Lead Water Resources Specialist  ECSSD             TTL
Shelley Mcmillan     Water Resources Specialist       ECSSD             TTL

Iwona Warzecha       Sr Financial Management                Sr Financial Management
                     Specialist                       ECSPS          Specialist
Ulrich Zeidler       Consultant                       ECSSD         Consultant
Vivien Gyuris        Consultant                       ECSSD         Consultant
Yarissa L. Sommer    Consultant                       ECSSD         Consultant



                                            28

Alexander Danilenko     Sr Water and Sanitation Specialist ETWWP             Sr Water and Sanitation
                                                                                    Specialist

Jaroslave Kozel         Consultant-Sanitary Engineer           ECSSD           Consultant-Sanitary
                                                                                     Engineer
Maria Teresa Lim        Program Assistant                      ECSSD            Program Assistant


(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                                        USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks               (including travel and
                                                                              consultant costs)


Lending

   FY93                                               -                                  -
   FY94                                               -                                  -
   FY95                                               -                                  -
   FY96                                               -                                  -
   FY97                                               -                                  -
   FY98                                               -                              629*
   FY99                                               -                              148
   FY00                                               5                                 12
                              Total:                  5                              789
Supervision/ICR
   FY00                                             13                                  40
   FY01                                               7                                 71
   FY02                                               8                                 69
   FY03                                               6                                 39
   FY04                                               6                                 37
   FY05                                               6                                 50
   FY06                                               7                                 48
   FY07                                               8                                 57
   FY08                                               6                                 29
   FY09                                               9                                 57
                              Total:                76                               497


* SAP was introduced in 1999, so this amount includes all expenses incurred for project preparation prior
to fiscal year 1999.




                                                 29

                             ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY


82.    A sample social assessment was carried out in the Municipality of Szeged in 1996
to measure public support for the project, determine a tariff and measure willingness of
the public to pay for investments in water pollution control. The assessment confirmed
that the tariff levels necessary for full recovery of costs of wastewater treatment were
affordable and that there was widespread public support for the project. The Municipality
of Szeged, the third largest in the country, was an early candidate for participation in the
project, but was not finally included.       The Municipality of Szeged is, however,
considered typical of the other candidates; and while a beneficiary survey for the project
was not done at completion, the findings of the social assessment for the Municipality of
Szeged were therefore considered applicable to municipalities of Dunaujvaros and
Budapest.




                                             30

            ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS


Not Applicable.




                                  31

    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR



83.     The Borrower' Implementation Completion Reports were received in January
2009 from Dunaujvaros and February 2009 from Budapest and are available in the
Project File. The summaries of their reports are as follows.

A) Dunaujvaros

84.     With encouragement from the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Water
and the Middle-Transdanubian Water Directorate the Municipality of Dunaujvaros
decided in 1996 to construct a wastewater treatment plant. The Ministry of Finance has
identified potential financing support from the World Bank and from the EU Phare
Program. Adhering to the Bank and Phare procurement procedures the Municipality
started the preparation process in 1996 and completed it by awarding the civil works and
the goods contracts in May 1999. The Bank Loan was signed in September 1999.

Project Output

85.     Facilities completed: (a) The wastewater treatment plant with a treatment
capacity for 75.000 equivalent population including fine filtration, primary
sedimentation, biological treatment, secondary sedimentation, sludge stabilization,
connecting pipes and outlet into the Danube; (b) The rainwater overflow, environment
protection control, etc. at the intersection of Panoráma and Kohász streets; and (c) The
booster station in Szent István Street.

86.     All works and installation of goods were completed in the first half of 2001 and
after required testing the facilities were taken over for operation by the Municipality in
November 2002.

87.     Technical Assistance received: (a) The December 2001 study on management of
the treatment plant recommended that the Municipality establishes its own limited
company. The Dunaújváros Szennyvíztisztító Kft was founded in 2002 and has been
operating the treatment plant since January 1, 2003. To support its operations the
Municipality has introduced the first wastewater treatment fee at 110 Hungarian
Forint/m³ plus VAT; and (b) The March 1998 study on final sludge disposal
recommended the disposal of sludge in the Dunaujvaros solid waste landfill as the
optimal option. The Municipality has chosen that alternative as the most economical
solution also acceptable for the Environmental Protection Authority.




                                             32

Factors with Significant Impact on the Project

88.     The privatization of the steel mill DUNAFERR Dunai Vasm, the main employer
in the city, took place in the course of the Project realisation. The subsequent substantial
reduction of its workforce has affected seriously the city. The number of the permanent
residents of Dunaújváros has decreased significantly from over 60,000 to the current
about 51,000 due to out-migration into the surrounding settlements. The negative impact
on generated wastewater quantity has been multiplied also by considerable reduction of
water use after the municipality increased water and wastewater charges.

89.     The long-term plan expected that surrounding settlements will ultimately be
connected to Dunaujvaros treatment plant. That plan is now being accelerated.
Wastewater collection systems in first four settlements (Mezfalva, Baracs, Kisapostag,
Nagyvenyim) with connections to Dunaujvaros wastewater treatment plant are under
construction.

Project Outcome

90.     The new wastewater treatment plant significantly reduces the pollution load of
organic matters, nitrate and phosphorus entering the Danube River as compared to the
earlier period when the city's wastewater was treated only mechanically. Now the
discharges into the Danube River meet the Hungarian and the EU environmental
standards. The construction of effective and modern biological treatment has solved the
city's environmental problem for a long time to come. The wastewater treatment plant
has a substantial free capacity and will easily absorb wastewater originated in several
surrounding settlements.

91.     The sustainability of the Project is well assured. The treatment plant has been
operating well for several years, the quality discharge values of the treated sewage meet
the environmental protection requirements, and the operational costs recovery is
adequate.

Evaluation of the Borrower and the World Bank Performance

92.     The Project Implementation Unit's (PIU) staff was selected from Municipality's
various offices. They carried out the Project in addition to their other regular tasks what
made their work occasionally difficult. They had not worked before on a project with
similar nature and volume and the use of the English language and the loan regulations
set in the Loan Agreement had been a big challenge. I addition, it was a difficult task to
adapt and harmonise the public procurement rules with the procurement rules of the
World Bank and the European Union.

93.     The Municipality and the PIU received during the Project implementation
enormous help from the World Bank missions, the Ministries of Finance, Transport,
Water Management and Communication, and the consultants, auditors, technical




                                             33

controllers, etc. employed by the Municipality. A good working relationship was also
maintained with the General Contractor.

94.    The report rates both the overall project achievement, and all project
implementation steps as highly satisfactory.


B) Budapest

95.    During implementation the Project was expanded by additional components to
improve final disposal of sludge and to comply with EU effluent standards for sensitive
waters. The summary output is as follows.

Project Output

96.    Facilities completed: (a) North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant was
expanded to an average of 155.000 m3/day and a peak capacity of 200.000 m3/day, with
80percent removal of chemical oxygen demand and suspended solids. The nutrient
(nitrogen and phosphorus) removal upgrading (Phase II) is currently implemented with
planned completion in January 2010. Besides the loan this component is co-financed
from GEF grant of USD 6,5 million; (b) South Pest Wastewater Treatment Plant was
expanded to 80,000 m3/day with full biological treatment, upgraded with nitrogen and
phosphorus removal capability, and a provision for expansion in the future to 120,000
m3/day. The sludge handling was extended by thickening, odor removal, digested sludge
dewatering, gas engine to produce electricity from biogas, and the biogas
desulphurization; (c) North Buda Wastewater and Rainwater Pumping and
Collection System provided in unsewered area of Budapest a length of collection and
trunk main pipes, a wastewater pump station, and a large siphon under the Danube River;
(d) Wastewater Monitoring System consists of nine monitoring stations with
transmitters and receiving panel at treatment plant operation room. Besides information
on the quantity and quality of wastewater the alert system enables quick action in case of
extraordinary events; and (e) Solid Waste Handling Facilities at Csomad were extended
to accommodate sludge from the North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant within the
next several years.

97.    Technical Assistance received: (a) A study recommending regulatory and
technical measures to strengthen monitoring of industrial wastes discharged into the
sewer system and to enforce related standards; (b) A study of the technical, financial and
legal aspects of industrial wastewater tariffs charged by Budapest Sewage Company to
users of the wastewater system with the objective of implementing charges based on
contaminants as well as quantity; (c) A study to determine the source of uncommon odors
at the North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant and to recommend corrective
measures; and (d) A feasibility study for the disposal and handling of dewatered sludge
deriving from North Budapest Wastewater Plant.

Project Outcome



                                            34

98.     Thanks to these investments in the Municipality of Budapest the wastewater
discharged in the river Danube became 51percent cleaner as compare to the 20 percent in
1999. The Loan Agreement between the World Bank and the Municipality of Budapest in
1999 made it possible to achieve substantial environmental developments in the City in
the last 10 years.

The Municipality of Budapest became environmentally more sensitive, the sewerage
network was expanded, and the inhabitants of the Municipality can live a better
comfortable life. Moreover, with the completion of these projects the European Union
effluent standards for sensitive waters are met.

Evaluation of the World Bank Performance

99.     The World Bank's performance during lending is rated as satisfactory. The Bank
showed flexibility when allowing additional components to be added to the Project list
and also granted the necessary extension of the deadlines. However, the administrative
staff at the Loan Department in Washington rejected withdrawal applications that the
Borrower still feels unjustified. While delays of the Project are the Borrower's
responsibility in general, we cannot ignore the fact that the lengthy process of issuing 'No
objections' at the Bank contributed to the delays.

100.    Supervision missions were held regularly, the World Bank staff followed through
the project cycles and showed professionalism. Financial audits held at the Borrower
helped to improve the financial management of the loan proceeds.




                                            35

  ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


The Bank shared the ICR with the EU Delegation in Budapest but did not receive any specific
comments from them.




                                            36

                ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS



 Draft Environmental Assessment by Norconsult International, December 1997
 Executive Project Summary, May 6, 1994
 Project Information Document, July 31, 1998
 Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19024-HU, August 18, 1999
 Guarantee Agreements: LN-4511 HU for Dunaujvaros and LN-4512 HU for
 Budapest, September 22, 1999
 Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) that contain Aide-Memoires
 and Management Letters
 Loan Agreements: LN-4511 HU for Dunaujvaros and LN-4512 HU for Budapest,
 September 22, 1999
 Project Implementation Plan for Dunaujvaros Components, July 22, 1999
 Final Study: Pollution-proportional Wastewater Tarification for the Service Area
 of the Municipal sewerage Works of Budapest ­ Loan 4512-HU, by FCI and
 EUROUT
 Hungary Country Assistance Progress Report No. 23609, April 2, 2002
 Environmental Management Plan for Budapest Municipal Wastewater Project
 North-Pest Wastewater Treatment Plant, November 2005
 North Buda Wastewater and Rainwater Pumping and Collection System,
 Csillaghegy Main Sewer Final Report (Dorsch Consult), April 2006
 Doing Business 2009 Country Profile for Hungary, Comparing Regulations in
 181 Economies (World Bank Group), Working Paper Report No. 45809,
 September 29, 2008
 Feasibility studies and Consultants reports (Various)
 Financial Monitoring Reports (Various)
 Procurement Plans (Various)
 Project Management and Audit Reports (Various)




                                     37

MAP NO. IBRD 36854




       38

