Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 2205 1-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.4 MILLION (US$ 40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND LOAN OF US$ 63.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR
ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
May 25, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
Rp 1 Million = US$ 89.02
US$1 = Rp 11,233
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia - January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank               JPS-BK          Social Safety Net, Health Coinpuiner-t
BAKN           National Civil Serv ice Agency       Kanwil
Kesehatan       Ministry of Health Provincial Office
Bappeda        Regional Development Planning        KPKN            Treasury Office
Agency
Bappenas       National Development Planning        Menegpan        State Minister for Utilization of Stat.
Agency                                               Apparatus
BPKP           Central Audit Bureau                 MOF             Ministry of Finance
BPS            Central Bureau of Statistics         MOHARA          Ministry of Home Affairs and
Regional Autonomy
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy          MOHSW           Ministry of Health & Social Welfare
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability     NAF             Non-Association Financing
Assessment
CGI            Consultative Group of Indonesia      NGO             Non Government Organization
CPCU           Central Project Coordination U nit   NIHRD           National Institute of Health Research
and Development
DADPD          Budget Allocation for Regional       OECD            Organization for Economic
Development                                          Cooperation and Development
DAK            Special Allocation Funds             PAD             Locally Generated Revenues
DAU            General Allocation Funds             PCAR            Procurement Capacity Assessment
Report
DG             Directorate General                  PCIU            Provincial Coordination and
Implementation Unit
Dinas                                               PHP             Provincial Health Project
Kesehatan      Local Government Health D epartment
DIP            Development Budgets Allocations      PHPB            Provincial Health Promotion Board
DIU            District Implementation Unit         PMM             Project Management Manual
Dokabu         Head of District Health Office       PMR             Project Management Report
DPRD IIDis        trict Assembly                    POM             National Agency for Drug and Food
Control
DU             Decentralization Unit                SK              Decree
FAOM           Funding Allocations Operational      SLA             Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Manual
GOI            Government of Indonesia              SPM             Minimum Service Standard
HP-IV          Fourth Health Project                SSN             Social Safety Net
HP-V           Fifth Health Project                 SSNAL           Social Safety Net AdjustmenL Loan
IDA            International Development As sociation  ST           Shared Revenues
JHC            Joint Health Council                 TRT             Technical Review Team
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassun, EAPVP
Country Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF 
Sector Director:    Maureen Law, EASHD 
Task Team Leader:    Sarnuel Lieberman, EACIF 



INDONESIA
ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       15
3. Benefits and target population                                                      15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   23
5. Value added of Bank support in this projecl.                                       23
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           24
2. Financial                                                                          24
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      25
5. Environmental                                                                      27
6. Social                                                                             27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabilitv                                                                     30
2. Critical risks                                                                     31



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     34
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            34
2. Other                                                                              37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         39
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          40
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         63
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   64
(i) Decentralization: Risks and Policy Alternatives in the Health Sector
(ii) Project Costs and Benefits
(iii) Spending and Financing at the Province and District Levels
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or                      81
Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    107
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  108
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 110
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           114
MAP(S)



INDONESIA
ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EACIF
Date: September 1, 2000                           Team Leader: Samnuel S. Lieberman
Country Director: Mark Baird                      Sector Director: Maureen Law
Project ID: P049539                               Sector(s): HH - Population, Health & Nutrition Adjustmnent
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X1 Loan    [X] Credit    [ I Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 102.57
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
| Commitment fee: 0.75%
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     793.24            0.00        793.24
IBRD                                                          66.67            0.00         66.67
IDA                                                           33.42            2.48         35.90
Total:                                                       893.33            2.48        895.81
Borrower: GOI
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Address: Jln. H.R. Rasuna Said Kav. X5, 4-9
Block B, 8th floor
Jakarta
Contact Person: Dr. Setiawan Soeparan
Tel: 522-3106                 Fax: 520-1588                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2001       2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
AnnualS    3.00      14.30      25.60      26.30      22.19     11.20
Cumulative    3.00       17.30     42.90      69.20      91.39     102.59
Project implementation period: 2001-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 08/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
-C PAD 1-  -~  -, 2"



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's goals are, first, to bring about effective health sector decentralization in the provinces of
North Sumatera, West Java, and Banten. The challenge is to initiate key sector reforms and put health
financing on a frm footing, while protecting health services which are essential for the poor and the public
at large during a period of government restructuring. The second objective is to help the Ministry of Health
and Social Welfare (MOHSW) carry out its roles in a decentralized system. These responsibilities
encompass providing sectoral vision and leadership, analysis and policy follow up of the health needs of the
poor and risks to the public at large, advocacy of best practices and standards, and support for local
initiative.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance benchmarks correspond to project objectives which are largely institutional in nature. These
refer to:
*   Implementation of changes in organization structure, health financing mechanisms, and work force
policies;
*   Development and implementation of effective, locally relevant curative service delivery and
financing arrangements; and
*   Development and implementation of effective, locally grounded public health service provision and
financing arrangements.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-1[IDA/R20001-3            Date of latest CAS discussion: January 30, 2001
IFC/R2001 -21
The proposed project is a primary building block of the CAS approved by the Board on January 30, 2001.
The CAS sets an overarching goal of reducing poverty and vulnerability in Indonesia's more open,
decentralized but still challenging environment. Along with sustaining broad based growth and building
accountable national institutions, the CAS links this aim to ensuring that the poor benefit from better public
services. Health services are seen as an indispensable in this respect; the proposed project embodies
CAS-stipulated objectives and design criteria. For instance, the CAS commits the Bank--and the project
provides a way--to working with sub-national governments since services will be delivered in decentralized
circumstances. Also underscored in the CAS is the importance of making services demand-sensitive. The
proposed project tackles this by supporting: accountability and oversight instruments which give feedback
to providers, mechanisms through which the poor can articulate their needs, sustainable funding
arrangements, and improvements in the professional competence and facilitation skills of health workers.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The government reorganization now underway in Indonesia brings new possibilities and risks for a health
sector which was overstretched in the pre-crisis period and was further disrupted during the economic crisis
of the late 1990s. The gains potentially associated with decentralization and related government
restructuring steps can be seen in aspects of system performance in the three provinces. North Sumatra,
-2-



West Java, and Banten, the project's focal provinces, have each recorded health achievements but also
experienced persistent problems:
* Health indicators have improved since the mid 1 980s. Nevertheless, health status remains
unsatisfactory, with Infant Mortality Rates (IMRs) thought to be around 40 deaths per thousand live
births in North Sumatra and 56 in West Java and Banten. The poor in these provinces are especially
vulnerable to malnutrition, matemal morbidity and mortality, diarrhea, respiratory infections, various
communicable diseases, and other health risks. Meanwhile, prevalence of non-communicable diseases
is rising in these areas.
*   Province-wise differences in health status and prospects reflect differences in poverty incidence. Just
over 20% of North Sumatera's 11.6 million people, and West Java's then 42.4 million population
(including Banten's 7.9 million), were classified as poor in 1999. But this ratio differed within each
province. In West Java, for example, the percentage of poor families varied from 6% in Bandung
District to 35% in Karawang District. Health risks within these provinces follow the same
inter-district pattern.
*   Although disease risks are substantial, utilization of government health facilities has remnained low on
average, while displaying sharp differences by income group. For example, the 835,000 people in
North Sumatera covered by ASKES, the civil service health insurance scheme, visited govemment
facilities 1.8 times per year in 1999, roughly six times the 0.3 rate for the entire population. The visit
rate in West Java was twice that of North Sumatera, but still quite low. Moreover, utilization of health
centers plunged in each province during the economic crisis--the decline in West Java amounted to
30%. Hospital bed occupancy rates fell as well.
*   None of these provinces has been satisfied with the performance of the health component, JPS-BK, of
the country's crisis-period Social Safety Net intervention. The low coverage, less than 30%, of
intended beneficiaries in the three provinces is attributable to ineffective targeting mechanisms, poor
promotion efforts, and inflexible program guidelines and procedures.
-   Low visit rates, limited program coverage and other indications of low demand in these provinces can
be traced to various disincentives faced by clients. These include unpredictable drug supplies and
informal visit charges --in North Sumatra, the latter can be as high as five times the official fee. Other
demand inhibiting factors relate to provider behavior, e.g., a preoccupation with private work
opportunities, open-ended task assignments and duties which make performance harder to evaluate, and
accountability arrangements which are not responsive to local needs and so forth.
*   As has been the case generally, the health systems in these provinces have been underfunded
chronically and also subject to resource misallocation. For instance, government health outlays per
capita in 1999/2000 in North Sumatra amounted to only $USI-2, with sharp differentials persisting in
per capita spending between districts, and public hospitals, despite low efficiency indicators, absorbing
large budget shares. Per capita government spending in West Java was even lower, amounting to 60%
of that in North Sumatra. Field reports confirm that only limited resources reach primary care
facilities--in North Sumatra, it appears that most of the "standard" 18 health center programs are not
being implemented. Misallocation is also evident in the concentration of government health staff in
metropolitan areas, e.g., Bandung, Medan, and districts around Jakarta.
*   System organization and capacity in these provinces are problematic. Facilities are often overendowed
with staff with inadequate skills who are accustomed to delivering services from standard packages
- 3 -



designed in Jakarta. Responsibilities are dispersed over a number of offices and agencies, with district
planning units lacking experience in priority setting, and program design and evaluation. Weak, often
non-functioning health information systems have made planning and impact assessment very difficult.
Meanwhile, the mandated consolidation of health administration units may require difficult
adjustments. In West Java, for example, the new province-level Dinas (local government health
office) may not be able to absorb all 340 employees of the Kanwil, the provincial office of MOHSW,
when they are "merged" with the 255 health staff in the predecessor Dinas.
These and related problems characterize a primary health care system which expenrenced increasing
performance difficulties in the early 1990s. (These issues are discussed in "Health Strategy in a Post
Crisis, Decentralizing Indonesia," Report No. 21318-IND.) GOI was aware of sectoral problems and
introduced a number of corrective steps as well as alternative management, delivery, and financing
arrangements. But most of these measures were put on hold during 1997-2000 when containing the health
effects of the crisis became MOHSW's policy focus.
Crisis-period and surviving pre-crisis health initiatives have now been overtaken by a wide ranging
restructuring of Indonesia's government. Combining decentralization and other policy steps, this
reorganization represents a good opportunity to address health system problems and to improve health
services in provinces like North Sumatera, West Java, and Banten. Specifically, decentralization and
related steps can lead to conditions in which providers have the incentives, skills, supervision, material
support, and discretionary authority needed to offer high quality, well targeted services, and clients have the
information, financial means, and bargaining power required to elicit appropriate responses.
But such an outcome is by no means assured. For one thing, many of the policy instruments developed in
the last 30 years have become inapplicable. On the other hand, the "source" material for new instruments,
i.e., Laws 22 and 25 and the other measures which form the reorganization package, were not prepared
with health system needs in mind. Also, experience elsewhere suggests that decentralization poses various
risks to health service continuity and sustainability. For example, this step in the Philippines, Colombia
and several other Latin American countries brought significant transition problems, complaints about
technical oversight in health matters, and potentially risky ambiguity about public health responsibilities.
Government strategy
A multi-element approach has been developed in response to challenges and opportunities associated with
decentralization, First, MOHSW is making the adjustments and developing the policy instruments needed
for it to function as the indispensable lead agency within a decentralized health sector. During and after
decentralization, MOHSW's key responsibilities are to include 1) developing and sustaining a sectoral
vision, translating this into a national priorities, expected roles, and benchmarks, and building coalitions to
pursue this agenda, 2) acting as an information clearing house and analytical body as regards key issues of
health status and system perfornance, 3) pursuing equity in health financing, including ensuring
affordability and adequate funding of basic services and essential drugs for the poor and disadvantaged, 4)
enhancing the quality of health services and public health programs through effective regulation including
developing systems for market approval, conducting quality assurance, licensing of professionals, and
inspection of facilities, and 4) monitoring drug and food safety and communicable disease trends, alerting
provinces about risks and outbreaks, and ensuring funding for prevention and surveillance.
MOHSW recognizes that it will not be able to implement its new agenda without changes in an
organizational culture seen by senior policy makers as overly bureaucratic and incompatible with new
responsibilities. The ministry has set the goal of becoming a learning organization, i.e. one adept at
- 4 -



acquiring, creating, and disseminating knowledge and adapting its policy designs and so forth to reflect
what has been learned.
The agenda of units within MOHSW is changing as well. For example, the Directorates General (DGs) for
Communicable Diseases, Health Research, and Drug and Food Control are modifying their institutional
missions and modus operandi, with the latter becoming an auonomous agency outside MOHSW. A new
DG for phannaceutical services has been created. Meanwhile, MOHSW is establishing a special
Decentralization Unit with a mandate to guide the ministry and sector through the many challenges entailed
in decentralization. Along with these and other organizational changes, MOHSW is developing the
instruments it needs to carry out its emerging mandate. One new policy tool would provide resources to
poor districts which are reorienting and redesigning health interventions to better respond to the needs of
low income households. These poverty-health grants, possibly supplemented by locally financed
"co-payments," would fund district or cross-district, e.g., province-level proposals relating to improving the
health of the poor.
MOHSW plans to use these and other policy instruments to further strengthen its ongoing support to
decentralization at the province and district levels. In this regard, the central ministry's interpretation of
the Minimum Service Standards (SPM in Bahasa Indonesia) clause in the Operational Guidelines for Law
22 is noteworthy. The clause was included to prevent Law 22 from undermining critical services.
MOHSW's approach is to enumerate broad activities, e.g., health facility licensing and nutrition
surveillance, for which specific minimum "standards" need be defined. However, decisions about the levels
of individual standards, achievement indicators, and related interventions are left to be worked out between
the Governors and district officials in each province.
In short, the SPM requirement is formulated in a way which transfers responsibility to lower government
levels. Nevertheless, MOHSW would remain an interested party. In this regard, province-level projects
represent a distinctive and useful component in MOHSW's decentralization strategy. The First Provincial
Health Project (PHP I, became effective in August 2001), provided a template for tackling health
decentralization within sub-national operational frameworks. An analogous 7-province ADB-funded
project was negotiated in November 2000. The Credit/Loan discussed in this PAD would support a further
extension and elaboration of this element in MOHSW's strategy. In general, provinces and constituent
districts comprise effective implementation arenas--the scale and range of activities are more manageable
than national scope projects, but large enough to tackle new province and district level responsibilities, for
fine tuning MOHSW's new roles. Province-level projects also provide mechanisms, e.g., cross-district
health councils, within which SPM goals, indicators, and modalities can be formulated jointly.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The aim of PHP type projects is to make health sector decentralization successful. As with PHP I, the
proposed project's broad coverage responds to the need to preserve basic health services, especially for the
poor while new systems are being established. The scope of PHP II also recognizes that Laws 22 and 25
impinge on virtually every aspect of health care in North Sumatra, West Java, and Banten, and on most if
not all policy functions and practices. The responsibilities and mechanisms subject to change include
priority setting, regulatory activities, provider incentives and accountability, and quality assurance and
control (see Table below).
Resource mobilization, budgeting, and funds channeling options are changing as well in light of Laws 22
and 25. Accordingly, a second feature of the PHP design places institutional and other reforms within a
financing framework which highlights old and new funding flows, including resources generated locally.
- 5 -



A third design dimension concerns local govemment readiness to take on expanded policy and
implementation roles. Training and other learning experiences for key staff will be supported early on in
the project. Attention will also be given to the improved information flows, incentive arrangements, and
mechanisms, e.g., for personnel management, accountability and local priority setting and planning, needed
to enable newly acquired skills to be applied effectively.
A fourth design feature aims at exploiting a potential benefit of decentralization, i.e., using a
division-of-labor between government levels to capture scale economies and externalities. The Credit
provides the mechanisms and resources to set up and prepare cross-district entities, with province-level
support, for functions and roles such as technical support and quality control for district programs,
communicable disease surveillance and control, health promotion, medium to large volume procurement,
regulatory tasks, and personnel management. Law 22 'llows for such alternative arrangements if districts
lack the scale, depth, and staff required to carrry out their assigned responsibilities.
The last design element addresses needed changes in the health role of the central government. As
discussed, MOHSW has distinctive and indispensable responsibilities within a decentralized health system,
with various central component activities within PHP II tackling aspects of this new agenda.
- 6 -



Policy Dimensions of Provincial Health Projects
Responsible E tities/Concerns
Policy Issue               Previous centralized    Decentralized paradigm   PHP Initiatives
paradigm
1. Providing cross-district    MOHSW (C/P), Dinas  Law 22 designates    Provinces, as advised
public goods.           (I)                   Provinces, without     by Joint Health
clarifying             Councils (JHC).
implementation.
2. Exploiting economies of   MOHSW (C,P), Dinas  Unclear, not mentioned   Provinces, as advised
scale/scope.            (II.                  in Laws 22 and 25.     bv JHC.
3. Targeting Public Funds:
a) Between provinces.      MOF, MOHSW,           Law 25 : to be         Central piloting of
Bappenas. MOHA        eoverned by formula.    matching-grants.
b) Between districts within   MOF, MOHSW,        Law 25: to be          JHC to use agreed
provinces.              MOHA, Bappenas,       governed by formula.    criteria to review
Bappeda (1).                                 proposals and allocate
health funds.
c) Within districts.      MOHSW (C/P),           DPRDs (D)              According to annual
Bappedas (1, 11)      Bappedas (D).          proposals reviewed by
JHC.
4. Funding adequacy and    Bappenas, MOHSW,   DPRDs (D), Bappedas   DPRDs (P, D),
allocation.            MOF, Bappeda (1, LI)-- (D), Bupatis (D),      Bappedas (P, D), JHC.
fragmented,           Bappenas, MOF.
suboptimal funding.
5. Health education and    MOHSW (C) and         Assigned to provinces    Provincial Health
promotion.              Dinas (1, 11)--       in PP25                Promotion Boards to
underused, ineffective.                      elicit and fund NGO
and other public
DarticiDation.
6. Health work force       MOHSW (C/P), Dinas  Merged Dinas (P/D)       Province and district
management.             (1), BAKN, Bappeda                           pilots.
(l1.11,.Dinast(1.11).
7. Health work force       MOHSW (C,P), Dinas  Merged Dinas (P/D)       Districts and provinces
development.            (1, II).                                     to develop
mechanisms.
8. Technical support.      MOHSW (C/P), Dinas  Possibly by merged       Roles of technical
(1).                  province Dinas but     team to be developed
unclear.               along with central
-_piloting.
9. Quality control and     MOHSW (C/P),          Likely continuation of   DiP/C mechanisms to
assurance.             including              some central guidelines  be tested.
HP4 Rilot. Dinas (11).  via merged Dinas (P).
10. Accountability of public  MOHSW (C/P) and   DPRDs, Bupatis (D).    SSNAL and "beyond-
providers.              Dinas; agreed SSNAL                          SSNAL" scenarios,
mechanisms for JPS.                          e.g., local oversight,
professional
associations.
11. Private providers- -  Licensing and limited   Unclear.              Central, province, and
accountability and     accreditation,                                district pilots.
quality control.       MOHSW (C/P), Dinas
(P), Professional
Groups.
C  = central               P   = provincial      D     = district
- 7-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
MOHSW and the provincial governments have indicated that the project design for West Java, Banten, and
North Sumatera would follow that developed for the first Provincial Health Project (PHP I). Like PHP I,
this project would consist of two components, one addressing health needs and issues in specific districts
and provinces, and the second focusing on responsibilities and functions of mainly MOHSW but also a
newly created, autonomous food and drug control agency.
A. Districts and Provinces
The project would proceed in two phases. Phase 1 (2001-2002) would be used to prepare for the
district-based health investments which domninate Phase 2. Activities during 2001- 2002 would facilitate
decentralization and health reform (components Al and A2). During Phase 2 (2003-2006), PHP II would
ftund district health improvement and reform proposals which have benefited from Phase 1 capacity
building, technical support, and quality assurance activities. Resources for Phase I activities are to be
provided to local governments initially through traditional funding allocation and transfer mechanisms. In
other words, project funds along with counterpart financing would be conveyed to districts and provinces
through national development budget channels. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) expects to finalize, after
appropriate consultation, rules and regulations governing Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) to local
governments. The SLA terms and conditions which are issued and applied to PHP II are expected to reflect
the costs of obtaining financing, the repayment ability of each spending entity, and whether funds are to be
spent on public goods which may have long gestation, institutional development features as compared to
directly productive activities.
Compared to its predecessor project, PHP II gives greater emphasis to strengthening capacity to carry out
health reforrns and system improvements. For instance, the proposed project includes support for training
of staff from schools of public health or equivalent programs in North Sumatera and West Java. Second,
reflecting its scale and diversity, cross-district entities would be developed at the sub-province level in West
Java and for the province as a whole. Specifically, West Java would establish health councils in 4 regions
defined according to ethnic and geographical considerations.
Banten province, created recently out of the north-west region of West Java, is included in PHP II because
of its weak health situation and large below-poverty population share. Banten's still developing
administrative infrastructure would require a different schedule of project activities. Phase 1 (2001 - 2003)
would be used initially to conduct a situation analysis and prepare a detailed project proposal. Resources
for this would be allocated in the central project management component. As in other provinces during
Phase 2 (2004 - 2006), health activities would proceed under the district block funding allocations
component (A3).
-8 -



Component Al: Managing Decentralization (Provinces and Districts) - US$ 20.07 million
Project-supported Task Forces would focus on critical institutional topics and develop recommendations
for implementation in Phase I and in Phase 2. The Task Forces would cover: the restructuring of health
service organizations and management arrangements of entities providing health services; developing and
implementing new human resource management policies; developing and operating new health information
systems covering health indicators, and service delivery (including drug supply), facility and staffing
information; upgrading the regulatory framework for health services through strengthening the licensing
and certification of health sector professionals and the accreditation of health care organizations;
strengthening public accountability mechanisms; and establishing a health promotion board in each of the
project provinces to foster public and private sector health promotion activities.
To illustrate, during Phase I of the project, North Sumatera would use task forces and other means to build
capacity to reform the sector through hiring consultants; conducting studies, pilots, training, and
benchmarking; and policy development. Capacity building efforts would aim at supporting the new tasks
and functions of the District Health Office (DHO) in line with the authority and responsibilities of the
districts according to Law No. 22. The DHO would play a central role in health priority setting, planning,
and budgeting, and in mobilizing resources and providing services. Its primary task would be to assure
delivery of public health services to the entire population and curative services to the poor.
During Phases I and 2, this component would also strengthen district and province level human resources.
This would include retraining some staff working at the province and district health offices, the hospitals
and also the health centers; developing downsizing options; irnproving staff planning, recruiting and
deployment; and piloting innovations for staff utilization, such as the utilization of post PTT midwives.
Institutions such as the Bapelkes for in-service training and universities would play an important role in
fulfilling the training needs. In this regard, North Sumatera and West Java plan to strengthen their training
institutions including the Bapelkes in Medan and local Faculties of Public Health. Funds will be allocated
for faculty to participate in short courses and masters and doctorate programs. Participating institutions
would be expected to assist the provincial and district governments by organizing training programs,
conducting research and policy analysis, and providing technical assistance as requested. In this
preparatory period, task forces with strong district and city representation would address institutional and
health sector issues and assist in building local implementation capacity, including upgrading health
information systems.
West Java plans to use Phase 1 to develop and test policy options in management as well as service
delivery. Some localities in West Java have already established healthy district/city forums to achieve the
goals of "Healthy West Java 2008." This approach will be expanded to other districts/cities through the
project. With financing from the World Bank funded CHN-3 project, West Java is already conducting a
job analysis to support the restructuring of the newly merged provincial health offices while carrying out
operations research on effective and responsive health centers in four districts. To downsize the work force
at the provincial level, West Java plans to conduct a pilot in which non professional staff receive
entrepreneurial training to help them develop careers outside the civil service. Staff management
improvements including demand responsive manpower planning, recruitment, and deployment will also be
supported. A regulatory framework subcomponent will assist West Java and North Sumatera in upgrading
certification, registration and accreditation functions.
An important addition to the institutional picture in these provinces is the Health Promotion Board. The
provinces would establish a joint government/non-government unit consisting of respected health education
-9-



and media experts and NGO representative. The Board's main responsibility would be to invite, review
and fund health promotion proposals from NGOs and other commnunity groups.
The project would finance efforts to develop public accountability mechanisms. West Java, for example,
plans to establish a "Health Consumer Agency" which provide feedback to the different health institutions
at the provincial and district levels. The complaint resolution mechanism started during the implementation
of JPS-BK would be assessed and strengthened.
Component A2: Resource Mobilization (Provinces and Districts) - US$ 2.43 million
Working individually or through task forces, DHOs would explore ways of financing District health needs.
This would include making the case for adequate allocations from the District budget, and relying on user
fees whenever the population had the ability to pay for treatment costs. By recovering the costs of curative
treatment, government funds could be focused on public health programs and the provision of care for the
poor.
During Phase 1, North Sumatra and West Java would sharpen the targeting of government subsidies to the
poor, drawing on planned assessments of JPS-BK. Consultants would be recruited to assist in detennining
priority public services and related funding needs.
North Sumatera and West Java plan to turn their public hospitals and health centers into district
enterprises, contracted to deliver public health programs. Facilities would propose annual budgets to be
approved by the local government and the DPRD. Revenue would be retained, with excess revenue over
the planned budget (and agreed profit share) transferred to the local government. Options to contract out
functions or contract inservices to third party payers would be tried. Another option would be to
collaborate with private hospitals to share resources such as personnel and equipment, and to establish a
network of providers to implement government health programs.
Another approach to be tested in North Sumatera involves government payment of services for the poor on
a capitation basis. Prepayment systems such as JPKM would be redesigned. Instead of covering only the
poor, JPKM would target the better off, and when sufficient numbers were enrolled, the poor would be
included with premiums paid by the government. An altemative would be to channel government subsidies
directly to providers, assuming that the principles of risk pooling and the law of large numbers would be
observed. The needed steps to develop the system would occur during Phase 1 of the project, while trials,
evaluation, and strengthening of the system would be the main interventions during Phase 2.
West Java would pilot a managed care system involving several health insurance companies and
government payment of insurance premiums to cover catastrophic conditions for poor people. West Java is
also considering how to work with other provinces in Java in developing viable health insurance coverage.
The City of Medan in North Sumatera has been successful in mobilizing resources from private companies
and industries to support health services for the poor. Some other localities in the province plans to
develop similar approaches through the project.
Banten would also use PHP II resources for A2 activities, with specific tasks to be defined in the project
proposal (due in 2002).
- 10 -



Component A3: District Funding Allocations - US$ 850.44 million
Starting in 2003 (2004 in Banten), Credit/Bank resources would be channeled to districts through block
allocations with the aim of raising government health spending to levels which are sustainable during the
medium tern. During Appraisal, it was agreed that Joint Health Councils (JHCs) made up of district and
Civil Society representatives in North Sumatera and West Java would take on the task of setting block
allocation ceilings for individual districts for each year during 2003-2006. The JHCs would draw on
updated estimates of likely overall district expenditure levels (routine and development), and would base
their calculations on predicted levels of sustainable health spending. During Negotiations, assurances were
received that government health spending levels would be equal to at least 42,000 per capita in 2001 prices
or 15% of total district expenditures by the end of the project (2006). JHCs would base their decisions on
other infonnation as well, including their assessment of the likely effectiveness of the level and mix of
government health spending financed through non-project means. The locally financed portion of the
district budget is treated as counterpart funding (hence the large size of this component). During
Negotiations, assurances were received that i) the JHCs would derive district ceilings through processes
and according to criteria and assumptions acceptable to and reviewed by the Association/Bank, and ii)
block allocations during 2003-2006 would be as specified by the JHCs. Based on these ceilings, district
teams would then prepare four year health improvement frameworks, updated annually, as well as detailed
proposals for the following 12 months. Draft proposals would reflect poverty and epidemiological
characteristics, service use patterns, local health priorities and capacities. Performance indicators and
notional budgets, and procurement and financial management plans would be required elements in these
proposals. The plans would focus on improving the coverage and quality of public health services for the
entire population, and curative care for the poor. The drafts would be evaluated by Technical Review
Teams, and then reviewed by the JHCs and the Association/Bank.
Component A4: Project Management (Provinces and Districts) - US$ 5.03 million
Project management units would be established at the province and district levels. Funds would be
allocated to support consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops, project management
training and project supervision.
B. The Center
As mentioned, MOHSW's approach to decentralization aims at enhancing the distinctive contributions each
governent level can best make in the health system. The central component of PHP II focuses on helping
MOHSW develop the policy instruments needed to carry out its responsibilities in a decentralized health
system. Activities within this component will complement those in planned or ongoing within the central
component of PHP 1. Resources including counterpart funding for this component will be allocated and
channeled through traditional national development budget mechanisms.
B1. Institutional Development (Central) - US$ 1.92 million
The goal of this sub-component is to support MOHSW's sector leadership role within a decentralized
system. To this end, PHP 11 would assist in establishing a small functional decentralization unit reporting
to the Minister and headed by an Echelon I official. The unit is needed to help MOHSW respond
consistently and promptly to the issues which are arising with decentralization. For instance, provinces and
districts are considering how to organize themselves and focus their attention and resources. Meanwhile,
within GOI and at other government levels, the economic and political environment for health and other
- 11 -



sectors is more competitive. MOHSW itself is reorganizing and downsizing--this could limit its leadership
and support activities unless it takes suitable steps.
Within this context, MOHSW expects the Decentralization Unit to take on facilitative, coordinating, and
analytical responsibilities. Its tasks would include: monitoring decentralization by region and level;
managing the National Health Grants process; facilitating MOHSW's adjustment to decentralized rules and
responsibilities; advising on existing and proposed decentralization legislation; suggesting improvements in
the formula and process for General Block Grants (DAUs); and updating MOHSW's decentralization
strategy.
The Unit, which would be set up initially for two years with possible extension linked to its performance,
would be staffed by a core team of 3-4 experts, supported by consultants and representives of key
MOHSW DGs. PHP II would support several key staff and activities for the unit, as would Ausaid,
WHO, and possibly other donors. The proposed project would also fund seminars, workshops, and
training on policy analysis, institutional and health economics, and problem solving, communications, and
consultancy skills. Participants would be staff working or affiliated with the new Unit. The project would
also support establishment of district and facility level health boards, and health-related associations.
During Negotiations, assurances were received that the Borrower, before drawing on the proceeds of the
Credit/Loan, would i) issue a Ministerial Decree, acceptable to the Association/Bank, establishing the
Decentralization Unit, and ii) provide the Association/Bank a signed copy of a Memorandum of
Understanding between the Government and the participating donors covering the goals and modalities of
the Decentralization Unit, and staffing and funding levels and arrangements.
The main responsibility assigned to the Decentralization Unit, i.e., helping MOHSW assume its leadership
role, will require adjustments in the Ministry's skill mix and work culture. In this regard, PHP Hl would
include the resources required to develop MOHSW into a learning organization. The main areas to be
addressed would be: systematic problem solving, experimentation with new approaches, leaming from the
experiences and best practices of others, and transfering knowledge quickly and efficiently throughout the
organization. Attention would be given to retraining staff who are assigned to technical jobs after years in
administration. Project funds would be used to recruit technical assistance teams, develop instruments and
modules, and sponsor or conduct training, workshops, and seminars.
PHP II's assistance to MOHSW would also include information sharing programs for intemal as well as
extemal audiences through an on-line system. The aim of intemal infornation sharing would be enhanced
performance, by equipping staff with high quality, up-to-date and easily accessible tools. Extemal
knowledge sharing would give MOHSW's clients and partners access to information on health issues of
interest. Support would be provided for the training and equipment needed to set up and operate the
website.
B2. Strengthening Communicable Disease Control (Central) - US$ 8.57 million
The project will help to transform the existing Directorate General (DG) for Communicable Disease
Control (PPM) into a specialized central agency within MOHSW. To this end, PHP II would support the
adaptation in West Java, North Sumatera and Banten of the surveillance system currently being
implemented in 6 other provinces with ADB support. This approach strengthens epidemiological
surveillance at each level and develops cross-level networking. The Epidemiological Surveillance Team
(EST) would support district, provincial and central level management with data analysis, providing
information on vulnerable areas, and risk factors or other indicators of health problems or diseases. During
negotiations, assurances were received that the Borrower would: i) complete the review and socialization
- 12 -



of the surveillance strategy during the first year of implementation; ii) provide the Association/Bank a
signed copy of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the province/districts and the center
indicating acceptance of the proposed surveillance strategy. Such an MOU would become a condition for
disbursing credit/loan funds for component B2 during year 2002 onwards.
PHP II would also assist in the strengthening referral and laboratory facilities for infectious diseases to
back up improved province and district level surveillance and response efforts. The Sulianti Saroso
Infectious Diseases Hospital would be developed into a center of excellence for infectious diseases case
management and laboratory confirmations and the Technical Environment Health Laboratories (BTKLs) in
Medan and Jakarta would become regional reference facilities.
B3. Assuring Equity in Service Provision (Central) - US$ 3.48 million
PHP II would help GOI carry out its distinctive responsibilities as regards the health of the poor. Project
resources would fund National Health Grants to help reorient district health systems, provide cost effective
public health programs, and cofinance catastrophic care for the very poor. Funds would be directed to
roughly 20 districts which are poor and satisfy other criteria. This sub-component would test an
instrument which is seen as playing an important role in attaining national health goals. Based on lessons
from PHP II, MOHSW expects to ask MOF to support a large scale grants program using a special
allocation channel (DAK), drawing on national and intemational donor funding. Provision of grants within
PHP II would be guided by transparent eligibility criteria and conditions. For example, access to funds
would be restricted to a limited number of most seriously vulnerable districts. To obtain grants, district
officials individually or as a group would prepare proposals describing the size and health needs of the poor
population and intended policy responses. Submissions would be judged by a designated review team.
Suggested evaluation criteria include relevance of objectives, suitability of design and implementation
mechanisms, affordability and sustainability of what is proposed, and local capacity. Apart from the
grants themselves, PHP II would provide resources to support proposal preparation as well as activities
which contribute to refocusing the health system in participating districts. During Negotiations, assurances
were received that withdrawal of funds for this component would proceed only when i) the names of the
members of the designated review team, ii) criteria to be used in determining district eligibility, iii) criteria
including respective weights to be used in evaluating proposals, and iv) the role of the Decentralization Unit
in coordinating, facilitating, and managing the National Health Grants had been agreed with the
Association/Bank. Assurances were received during Negotiations that National Health Grants may only be
made after obtaining the prior approval of the Association. When presenting a proposed National Health
[Grant] to the Association for review and approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a draft
national health [grant] agreement with the intended recipient in a form satisfactory to the Association,
together with (a) a description of the activities which the Borrower intends to finance with the proceeds of
such [grant], (b) a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of such proceeds, and (c)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
B4. Assessing Health Research Needs, Capacities, and Options (Central) - US$ 0.06 million
PHP II would support a broad analysis of health research requirements and options within a decentralized
system. Research needs would be assessed first. The review team would then evaluate the capacity of the
existing National Institute of Health Research and Development (NIHRD) before discussing the modalities
and altemative available to improve the outflow and use of high quality research findings. The review team
for this 3 month exercise would include intemational and domestic consultants as well as NIHRD staff.
The team would be expected to elicit feedback on findings in a number of seminars and workshops. A
follow up plan of action would be included in the team's output.
- 13 -



B5. Strengthening Food and Drug Control (Central) - US$ 2.01 million
GOI has converted the former DG POM into an autonomous agency reporting to the President, under the
coordination of MOHSW. PfP II would assist in transforming the agency into a professional unit whose
operations were based on scientific, risk management principles. PH-P II would support strengthening
POM's capacity in respect of assessing and then enhancing the inspection systems which comprise core
activities. This would involve hiring a consultant team made up of intemational and domestic experts. The
project would also fund assessment mechanisms to assure that drug producers and wholesale and retail
distributors are accountable to the public. Helping POM evolve into a learning organization would also be
supported by PHP II. A consultant team of intemational and domestic experts would assess needs and
suggest and assist in implementing an altemative approach. As part of this component, local and overseas
training would be financed as well.
B6. Project Management (Central) - US$ 1.79 million
A coordinating unit for PHP II overall would be established at the central level. Funds would be allocated
to support consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops, project management training and
project supervision. During Phase I of the project, this unit would coordinate proposal preparation for the
new Banten province which includes undertaking a situation analysis and a detailed proposal covering
specific activities. Funds would be allocated to recruit consultants, and conduct workshops. Project
implementation in Banten would start during Phase 2 (2004). Once Banten's proposal is approved, funds
for implementation would be channeled through the same mechanisms agreed for the other two provinces.
In addition to Managing Decentralization (A 1), Resource Mobilization (A2), funds would be allocated to
finance district specific proposals to be reviewed by Banten's TRT and JHC. A schedule for project
implementation in Banten (Banten Implementation Plan) was agreed during negotiations.
The Research Unit
The central project management unit would select an independent research unit to conduct project
monitoring and evaluation activities. The unit would conduct baseline, midterm and final surveys; and
conduct various tracking studies to assess the impact of implementation of new management and service
delivery policies formulated by the districts/cities, the provinces and the center. Findings of the research
unit would be fed back regularly to the various implementing units. University-based research centers as
well as private firms would be invited to submit expressions of interest.
- 14 -



Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component                    Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
U{S$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
Al. Managing Decentralization                           20.07        2.2      18.14      17.7
A2. Resource Mobilization                                2.43        0.3       2.15       2.1
A3. District Funding Allocations                       850.44       94.9      61.51      60.0
A4. Project Management                                   5.03        0.6      4.15        4.0
B 1. Institutional Development                           1.92        0.2       1.71       1.7
B2. Strengthening CDC                                    8.57        1.0       7.82       7.6
B3. Assuring Equity in Service                           3.48        0.4       3.48       3.4
Provision
B4. Assessing Health Research Needs,                     0.06        0.0       0.06       0.1
Capacities, and Options
B5. Strengthening Food and Drug                          2.01        0.2       1.90       1.9
Control
B6. Project Management                                   1.80        0.2       1.65       1.6
Total Project Costs                  895.81      100.0    102.57       100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                    895.81      100.0    102.57       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
PHP II would support health reforms at the central, province, and district levels. At the district and
province levels, the project would foster priority setting, quality control, accountability, and resource
mobilization and other mechanisms entailed in and supportive of health decentralization. The project's
central level agenda entails establishing instruments which enable MOHSW to better carry out its
leadership and related tasks.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
Institutional reforms including: sustainable financing arrangements which provide sufficient funding for
public health interventions and appropriate health safety net instruments; targeting of beneficiaries based
on transparent and credible criteria; improved, experience-tested accountability mechanisms; greater local
ownership and involvement; more equitable distribution of health personnel; effective technical review and
quality control mechanisms; and robust arrangements to involve NGOs in health promotion, accountability,
and service delivery responsibilities.
Improved services, thanks to: an expected large increase in spending in most districts and leading to
improved access; greater relevance in terms of local specificity and priorities; enhanced service quality
from technically proficient public and private providers; and flow of timely, relevant health infornation and
educational messages through health promotion.
- 15-



Targeted population
Beneficiaries of the project would be the public at large and poor households located in North Sumatera' s
19, West Java's 22, and Banten's 6 districts and municipalities. According to BPS household expenditure
data, the percentage of poor people in the North Sumatera and West Java (with Baniten) in 1996 was
around 10%, with this figure rising to roughly 22% in North Sumnatera, 21% in West Java (without Banten)
in early 1999 because of the economic crisis. There were roughly 2.9 million poor people in North
Sumatera and 8 million in West Java (with Banten) in 1999.
Low income individuals would benefit through this project from improved access to higher quality health
care. This would be accomplished through better use of government subsidies: allocation of project funds
will be based on the number of poor people in each district and rates of public facility use by the poor.
Districts would be encouraged to develop mechanisms to promote service use by the poor. Some of the
options proposed include the health cards now being used in JPS-BK, public payment of health insurance
premiums, and subsidizing hospital beds.
Indonesians living in other provinces would benefit from strengthened disease and control, improved drug
and food oversight and regulations, and better targeted subsidies.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented in phases in the provinces of North Sumatera, West Java, and Banten, and
centrally in the Ministry of Health over five and a half years. The activities to be implemented in North
Sumatra and West Java during Phase I (FY01 -FY02) at the district, provincial and central level were
reviewed at Appraisal. Using capacity and institutions established during Phase 1, implementation of
Phase 2 (FY03-06) in North Sumatra and West Java would be based on plans developed and approved
annually but within a "rolling" four year framework (see Annex 2 and Attachment to Annex 2). In Banten,
Phase I (FYOI-FY03) and Phase 2 (FY04-FY06) implementation would follow a different schedule.
Institutional Arrangements:
District level. District Implementation Units, DIUs, established by the Bupati (District Project Director)
and headed by the chief of District Bappeda or District Regional Assistant III, would be responsible for
procurement, disbursement, and accounting for district level activities. During Negotiations, assurances
were received that procurement and financial management would be carried out in compliance with a
Project Management Manual reviewed and cleared by the Association/Bank. The Units would also be
responsible for coordinating the preparation of district proposals to be funded by the District Funding
Allocations. The DIUs would be supervised by the chief of the district health office operating as Executive
Secretary. The DIUs would draw on existing government personnel, and would consist of a procurement
officer, a financial officer, and a plarnning and monitoring and evaluation officer.
Provincial level: Joint Health Councils, JHCs, comprising members of Civil Society and the Bupatis, and
chaired by the Vice Governor, would be established by the respective Governors in the participating
provinces. JHCs would meet a minimum of four times a year as a forum for raising health issues and
determining broad health policies for the province. Assurances were received during negotiations that each
district would be represented in the relevant JHC. Beginning in Phase 2, the JHC would determine ceilings
for District Funding Allocations based on criteria approved by the Association/Bank, and taking note of
- 16 -



advice from the Technical Review Team (TRT), would review and if appropriate, approve annual District
Funding Allocations for health service improvement. The TRT would comprise existing health
professionals located in the provincial health office. In addition to its review functions, the TRT would
provide support to district planning units in proposal preparation. The TRT would be reinforced by health
specialists hired for specific, short term assignments.
A Provincial Coordination and Implementation Unit, PCIU headed by the chief of the Provincial Bappeda
as the Provincial Project Director and with the head of the provincial health office as Deputy Provincial
Project Director, has been established in each of the target provinces. The PCIU would be responsible for
procurement, disbursement and accounting for provincial level activities. Procurement and financial
management would be carried out in compliance with the Project Management Manual. PCIU staff may
include some government employees and/or hired staff and would consist of two procurement officers, one
financial officer. and one planning and monitoring and evaluation officer. The activities of the PCIU would
be coordinated by an Executive Secretary employed by the project. The PCIU would coordinate the
implementation of activities where economies of scale and/or the systemic nature of the activities indicated
that greater efficiency would be achieved by implementation at the provincial rather than district level. A
Provincial Health Promotion Board, PHPB, would be established by Governor's Decree in each province.
Made up of highly respected non-government and government figures, the PHPB would fund health
promotion work by NGOs and others.
Each province would also establish task forces on managing decentralization and resource mobilization.
These would be joint province-district working groups, with members drawn from staff from province and
district health and non-health staff. The main responsibility of these task forces would be to conduct a
situation analysis or assessment on various aspects of decentralization including the organizational
restructuring, human resource development, health information system, and public accountability; and to
provide recommendations to the Joint Health Council (JHC) based on their findings. The task forces would
recruit consultants to conduct studies and assist in developing recommendations for the JHC.
Central level: A Central Project Coordination Unit, CPCU, has been established in the Ministry of
Health under the Secretary General who would serve as Project Director. The chief of the Bureau of
Planning would be Deputy Project Director. The CPCU would be supervised by a full-time Executive
Secretary with appropriate sector and management experience who would be funded by the project. The
CPCU may be staffed by existing government employees and/or hired staff, and would consist of one
procurement specialist, one financial management specialist, and one planning and monitoring and
evaluation specialist.
Implementation Arrangements:
The CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs would provide for Association/Bank review, starting not later than August
15, 2002, quarterly project management reports, in a format specified in the Project Management Manual.
This report would cover the previous quarter of the fiscal year and a forecast of project expenditures for the
following two quarters of the fiscal year for project activities at the district and provincial level. Similarly,
the report would update disbursements in the previous three months and provide a basis for determining
cash flow requirements for the coming six months. The Funding Allocation Operational Manual would
establish a linkage between tranches of the Funding Allocations and receipt of financial report to establish a
strong connection between physical progress and cash flow requirements. Along with the project
management report, the CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs would provide (i) by March 1 and September 1 of each
year, starting September 1, 2002, a report integrating results of monitoring and evaluation activities for the
preceding period, and (ii) a procurement plan due by September I each year, detailing proposed
- 17-



procurement actions for each subsequent year of implementation at the central, district and provincial level,
to be updated by March 1 each year.
For activities at the central level, the CPCU would provide financial, implementation and procurement
management reports and planning in the same format and with the same schedule, as detailed in the Project
Management Manual.
The State Audit Authority, BPKP, would conduct an annual financial and implementation audit, the results
of which will be made available to the Association/Bank for review within six months of the close of each
fiscal year. In addition by September 30, 2002 and thereafter by September 30 in each year of project
implementation until project close, except for September 30, 2004, and coinciding with regular
Association/Bank reviews of progress, the CPCU would submit for Association/Bank review the results of
an independent technical audit covering central, provincial and district-level activities.
Financial Management
A financial management assessment was carried out by the Bank Financial Management Officer before the
appraisal of the project. As in PUP 1, the implementing agency for PHP II is the Secretary General,
MOHSW in which the Central Project Coordinating Unit (CPCU) is established. A Provincial
Coordination Implementation Unit (PCIUs) and a District Implementation Unit would also be established in
each province and district respectively. The assessment found the implementing agency has experience in
executing Bank financed projects. However, to ensure sound financial management practices during project
implementation, CPCU has been asked to complete a time based action plan (Annex 6c). This covers the
adoption of a Project Management Manual, a Funding Allocation Operational Manual and provision of
training to CPCU, PCIU and DIU staff. Details of the financial management arrangements, disbursement,
special account operations and audit arrangements are provided in Annex 6.
The DIUs, PCIUs and CPCU would be responsible for procurement and authorization of expenditures
within their components. Each DIU and PCIU would maintain separate sub-project accounts and the CPCU
would consolidate them for preparation of the project account.
The Government of Indonesia will establish a US Dollar Special Account (SA) at Bank Indonesia, under
the name of the office of the Secretary General, MOHSW with an authorized ceiling at USD 8,000,000.
The SA deposit initially would be limited to USD 4,000,000 until total disbursement reached USD
16,000,000. The SA management is under the responsibility of the CPCU, which prepares request for
replenishment of SA as required. The replenishment of the SA may be based on quarterly PMR only after
the production of a PMR satisfactory to the Association/Bank. Otherwise traditional SOE and full
documentation disbursement will be used.
The annual audit of the project accounts, including SA and SOEs shall be fumished to the
Association/Bank no later than six months after the end of the government fiscal year. The format of
project accounts and terms of reference for the annual audit will be agreed during appraisal. Prior to
Negotiations, the Secretary General, MOHSW appointed the State Audit Authority (BPKP) to conduct
annual financial and implementation audits.
- 18 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Decentralization and related government reforms are affecting most aspects of the health system, as well as
the strategy and project design alternatives which are available. In principle, there are more options than
before the crisis when policy change was limited to incremental steps within the existing centralized
paradigm. But, capacity and financial constraints may rule out many altematives in the near term.
In short, project altematives have been reshuffled. At this juncture, two sets of options are worth
distinguishing, namely those that fall within or outside the PHP framework. Starting with the latter, policy
makers can:
Wait and see. This altemative, that of delaying further lending to Indonesia's health sector, must be
considered since it may take several, possible highly contentious years or more to reach a sustainable
consensus on central, province, and district level roles in health. But this "wait it out" approach is overly
pessimistic. Even if there is a slower than planned, and somewhat contested convergence on interpreting
Laws 22 and 25, the option of doing nothing is unpersuasive. First, the country has only just emerged from
an economic downtum sum health sector crisis and there remain significant service delivery, funding, and
reform needs in the health sphere. Second, there is already a new framework at hand i.e., the PEGP "model",
within which to engage decentralization constructively.
Revert to old style projects. A return to traditional investment lending, while waiting for Law 22 to take
hold, may sound appealing. But this approach is a non-starter. For one thing, decentralization is
restructuring the center-province-district linkages which anchored completed investments such as Health
Project IV. So there is no longer any organizational model which can serve as a platfomn for projects
based on mid 1990s designs. Moreover, the older vintage projects have yielded mixed results due, in part,
to design weaknesses. For example, Bank missions commented frequently on the inflexibility of central
implementation which led typically to limited local commnitment. The previous generation of projects also
abstracted from provider incentives and post-project financing, although these are crucial for sustaining
project-sponsored innovations.
Keep JPS-BK going. Another altemative of questionable feasibility and desirability at this juncture is
further support for JPS-BK on a national scale. This scheme took an extended period to be established and
then encountered implementation hurdles and design flaws typical of top-down, one-size-fits all approaches.
The program did bring achievements, e.g., design features which made providers more responsive to clients
whom themselves were attracted by fee waivers and other incentives. The advances attained within
JPS-BK should be sustained. However, funds to finance an extension of the original JPS-BK do not appear
to be available from donor and government sources. In any event, JPS-BK would need to be adjusted to fit
local circumstances. Decentralization is an appropriate mechanism for this, with the PHP-genre projects
providing a flexible framework in which to adapt aspects of JPS-BK.
Move up to an APL framework The PAD for PHP I expected the Credit to lead to an APL. In this
scenario, the Bank and other donors would agree with GOI on a medium term program with measurable
outcomes and "triggers" to begin disbursing in each new phase or province. Some discussions with
MOHSW and other donors have taken place on such an approach. However, the focus during the next few
years will be on transition to new roles and responsibilities--Indonesia's different government levels are not
ready to adopt a comprehensive health decentralization blueprint and long term funding plan. Donors too
remain generally in a transitional mode, perhaps several steps away from being comfortable with the
- 19-



mutual obligations of an APL. For these reasons, the proposed Bank strategy is to help GOI to adapt the
PHP model to different circumstances, while helping to intensify discussions with MOHSW, MOF,
Bappenas, and other donors on the desirability and feasibility of an APL-like initiative.
However, these are by no means the only options which need to be discussed. It is also worth reviewing
alternatives arising within the PHP framework:
Emphasize capacity building. The ADB-supported District Health Services (DHS) project, covering 7
small, non-Java provinces, gives greater attention to staff training than PHP I. Among other things, DHS
introduces potentially replicable orientation and training packages for different stakeholders. PHP II would
invest substantially in capacity building as well. However, the project design would also, unlike 1990s
vintage projects, link skill enhancement activities to intended changes in staffing numbers and mix, and
incentives and organization structures.
Focus more on the districts. In Laws 22 and 25, the impetus is to district-centered decentralization, with
province level responsibilities barely mentioned. On the other hand, the PHP approach assigns an enhanced
role to cross-district, i.e. provincial functions. Some observers feel PHP overemphasizes the province level.
However, the "balance" between province (inter-district and district level roles should be determined
locally. The PHP approach itself is largely district-based and oriented, and supportive of district-level
innovation. Moreover, province-level, i.e., cross-district, mechanisms and responsibilities are formulated
in terms of functions which districts can do better by acting in concert. Law 22 provides this option and
the PHP approach offers a framework for organizing such joint activities.
Extend the approach more quickly. Like PHP I, the proposed project covers only a few provinces.
Should this project include additional regions, and in the future, should the extent of coverage and pace of
preparation be accelerated ? Actually, PHP II has been prepared more quickly than the previous project
and some further streamlining based on standardizing key steps is now possible. Moreover, PHP II includes
West Java which is larger than all 7 DHS provinces combined. Looking ahead, the pace of replication may
depend on the availability of financing from either the national budget or donor resources. Ultimately, of
course, the decision to opt for the PHP package should be left to individual districts and provinces, who
will likely pay close attention to financing options.
Broaden the coverage. PHP I and II do not address the quality of medical, midwifery, and nursing
graduates even though the skills of these providers could determine service effectiveness. But there is no
reason in principle -- though the costs would be larger -- why the PHP framework cannot add such a
pre-service education "wing." In fact, doing so makes good sense in terms ofjointly planning institutional
changes and investments. The first PHP variant to take on this agenda may take somewhat longer to
prepare. However, the next batch of provinces would then benefit from a larger "standard' framework
within which to develop options.
A bigger central role. PHP II's central component could be expanded by, for example, tackling the
decentralization agenda in all, not just two of the Ministry's DGs. This option should be resisted, since: i)
the central component is already fairly large; and ii) the DGs not covered have not done the required
stocktaking work. Moreover, a "tilt" towards the center away from the provinces would be the wrong
tactic at this stage. It is better focus simultaneously on the different levels in the system, supporting steps
leading to an effective demarcation and implementation of distinctive responsibilities.
- 20 -



Expand MOHSW's quality control functions within the PHP approach. There are several reasons for
rejecting this altemative. MOHSW already has large technical responsibilities, e.g., disseminating best
practice technical approaches and encouraging adoption of these improvements. This task should not be
diluted by asking MOHSW to take on quality control in all district and province level health activities.
Moreover, the PHP II and other provinces need to develop their own technical review and control
capacities, and are large enough to do so--MOHSW may not be able to perform these functions without
relying on the standard designs and packages which have not worked well in the past.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(B (ank-financed projects only
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Strengthening decentralized health  PHP (Credit 3381 -ND)           S             S
management and protecting health
services for the poor.
Showed that deconcentration to the  HP-3 (Loan 3042-IND)           HS            HS
provinces of planning and budgeting
tasks is feasible and that resources can
be generated locally..
Points to difficulties in sustaining  HP-4 (Loan 3905-IND)          S             S
quality assurance methods after project
closes
Implementation has shown the      HP-5 (Loan 4374-IND)              U             S
importance of bringing in local
government from the outset and the
desirability of including a service
delivery component to complement
training and related tasks.
Points to the need for province level   West Java Basic Education   S             S
mechanisms to assist/operate on behalf (Loan 4308-IND)
of districts and the risks of spreading
Credit resources too thinly
Other development agencies
Represents a version of PHP tailored to District Health Services (ADB)
needs of specific provinces
Reconfirms difficulties entailed in  SPSDP and NHSDP (ADB)
operating national scale poverty
oriented health programs from Jakarta
IP/D0 Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 21 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
World Bank assistance to Indonesia's health sector has been marked by an increasing focus on local
conditions and circumstances. Up to the early 1990s, Bank-assisted health projects helped extend the
established, centrally-guided delivery system. However, unsatisfactory (health manpower, Loan
2542-INI)) and disappointing (nutrition and community health, Loan 2636-IND) project performance led to
greater emphasis on decentralized management, budgeting and planning, and to innovations in service
delivery, financing and training. The Third Health Project, which closed in 1996, included local resource
mobilization and a larger provincial planning and budgeting role. The Third Community Health and
Nutrition Project (closed 3/31/2001) supported local level service, training, and quality assurance
innovations. The Safe Motherhood Project is developing locally suitable demand and supply side
improvements in reproductive health care in several provinces.
The Fourth Health Project (closed 3/31/2001)
Addressing low health center service quality, HP IV developed and implemented a quality assurance (QA)
approach which establishes care standards, and uses peer review to assess compliance. These facility level
interventions have been effective in altering provider behavior, but have not been distilled into a statement
of principles and responsibilities, e.g., a creed in which QA is a key promise to the public. Furthermore,
these achievements may not be sustainable in of themselves because QA has been addressed apart from
other needed changes, e.g., correcting incentives which encourage providers to engage in private practice,
and ensuring funding from local resources. Nor was the design linked to a strategy which brings health
education, worker and consumer incentives, performance assessment mechanisms and other elements into
play simultaneously to get high quality services to the clients.
The Fifth Health Project (HP V, Loan 4374-liND)
HP V aims to improve the distribution, utilization and quality of the health work force. HIP V anticipated
GOI's decentralization initiatives in its focus on improving the capacity of province and district health
staff, and introducing methods for workload assessmnent, performance review, and service quality
assurance. The project also encourages piloting of innovations in staff deployment and financial autonomy
of health facilities. However, the initial design did not encompass local government involvement and
district level service reform. The planning framework of the proposed project addresses these issues and
provides a strong foundation for eliciting local commitment.
Safe Motherhood Project (Loan 4207-lND)
This project has used different instruments to establish attractive and sustainable work conditions for
village midwives, who are key providers of services potentially beneficial to poor women. One of the
measures piloted has been performance contracts, which have been shown to be effective in improving the
quantity and quality of services reaching poor clients. The project has also used different means to promote
the acceptance of these front line providers in local communities. For example, it has shown that use of
coupons for poor households can be effective in generating service demand and empowering poor clients.
These achievements are timely and relevant to challenges faced by budget constrained districts which
through Law 22, are responsible for services intended for the poor. PHP I and II can incorporate these and
other design lessons from this project.
- 22 -



West Java Basic Education (WJBE, Loan 4308-IND)
After nearly three years of implementation, results have been below expectations. Performance has
improved recently thanks to a substantial restructuring effort. Problems seen in the first two years were
because the Loan became effective as the economic crisis was intensifying, but also due to design factors.
For one thing, this was a "decentralized" project in the limited, pre-Law 22 sense. The national ministry
provided little encouragement for WJBE's institutional goals and continued to operate in traditional
prescriptive inflexible, fashion. Nor was there a province-level counter-point--the province has functioned
as a deconcentrated unit of the central ministry. Also, the project financed extensive training and related
capacity building activities targeting district and facility level decision makers, opinion leaders, and
providers. But results have been disappointing. Bank reviews have attributed this to resources being
spread thinly over many activities. It seems likely as well that training was not rooted in an agreed
decentralization framework involving new roles, accountabilities, and incentives. Other lessons include
delays and irregularities which emerged in monitoring and evaluation and in procurement and financial
management. The latter lacked clearly defined organization, responsibilities, and reporting arrangements.
Finally, Bank reviews have commented that perceived project benefits may be too small to elicit adequate
local ownership and follow through. The PHP II design takes account of these difficulties.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Assisted by a GOI-managed PHRD grant, project preparation was backed by strong district, provincial,
and central interest and ownership. High quality situation analyses were carried out, with results presented
in meetings chaired by the Governors involving province and district leaders and stakeholders. Local
government commitment was shown by active participation of the Bappedas in project preparation.
Province/district government commitments were also demonstrated by the provision of letters from Bupatis
to MOF, countersigned by DPRD chairmen, indicating willingness to participate in the project and repay
once terns and conditions have been agreed with N4OF. The Central components, e.g., the Decentralization
Unit, the special grants, and so forth, have been discussed intensively in various MOHSW forums and
have been endorsed by key decision makers. The elements in the Central component form the basis of
MOHSW's submission and presentation to a special Consultative Group for Indonesia (CGI) meeting in
April 2001 which focused on the country's post-ciisis poverty agenda.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's contribution is seen in both content and process dimensions. The Bank has been a leader in
Indonesia in calling attention to the health development opportunities and risks inherent in decentralization
and possible policy responses. It has done this by drawing on its AAA work and project experience in
Indonesia, along with its knowledge base on health sector decentralization and policy design in other
countries. The now emulated PHP approach is grounded in a widely discussed health strategy note (Report
No. 2131 9-hnd) which focused on policy choices in the post-crisis period, and in related work on health
spending. PHP II also reflects project level experiences, e.g., supervision and lending development
missions, and a cumulative view of a centrally run system that was faltering well before the economic
crisis. Further contributions of the Bank include inputs from efforts to monitor decentralization issues
across sectors, and lessons on improving accountability drawn from preparation and supervision of
SSNAL. As with the previous project, the Bank's ability to tap cross-country expertise has contributed to
PHP II's preparation.
- 23 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
. Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
7 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Other (specify) NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
The analysis reviews decentralization-related risks for the health sector and policy responses to date. In
that context, the project's linkages to Association/Bank country strategy are discussed. Also taken up are
the notional economic benefits, and province and district-level level fiscal underpinnings and implications.
The main project benefit would be improved health status in the two provinces. This would be achieved
through i) better priority setting based on improved health information systems and better surveillance; ii)
improved access to health services by strengthened targeting of government subsidies to poor families, and
increased numbers of service delivery points and outreach services; iii) enhanced quality overall as well as
for specific health services, and iv) improved health behavior brought about through the introduction of a
health promotion board in each province. Reforms introduced through the project would also change the
way health services are managed and delivered, leading to higher effectiveness and efficiency. For North
Sumatera, benefit would also be derived from a wider scope of services made possible by higher percapita
spending. Based on conservative assumptions as to which benefits are included and how to value these, the
illustrative economic analysis, including simulation of down-side scenarios, concludes that discounted
project benefits will be at least 50% larger than project costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Fiscal Impact:
The minimum service package which the project would support is expected to be manageable budgetarily
by virtue of several measures which are design features. The cost of the basic service package is
constrained by including within it only minimally indispensable components. Meanwhile, district
g,overnments would raise their levels of budgetary commitment in discrete and feasible steps so that by
project end they had reached sustainable levels of spending. The provincial task forces on resource
mobilization would help the districts to determine the best means of generating needed revenues and would
also serve as a vehicle for identifying intra-province mechanisms to raise spending in the poorest districts.
The JHCs would provide a forum for discussing and devising solutions to intra-province funding
differentials. (See Annex 4.)
3. Technical:
A key consideration in designing the proposed project has been assuring and improving technical quality in
service delivery and back up activities. The instruments and processes which previously underpinned
technical standards have been eliminated or weakened by decentralization and not yet replaced. In the PHP
approach, alternative safeguards are established and tested.
One of these mechanisms requires that a Technical Review Team (TRT) be set up at the province level to
review district proposals before they are submitted to the Joint Health Council. The TRT would work as
follows in coordination with other instruments to ensure that [those who prepare and review proposals have
the needed background and ]that the technical integrity of the process is maintained: and that district
- 24 -



proposals are of good quality technically. The oversight or support points include:
*      setting appropriate qualifications for TRT members, and close scrutiny of the background of
candidates;
*      finetuning the TORs for the TRT;
*      prompt hiring of consultants when specific technical needs arise to augment TRT capacity;
*      assistance from central MOH;
*      upgrading the technical content of appropriate sections in district Situation Analyses;
*      assistance to districts in proposal preparation by TRT;
*      discussion of the wording and interpretation of proposal review criteria used by the TRT during
trial runs in Phase l;
*      dissemination of best practice cases and other material as part of training during Phase 1, language
in the Grants Operational Manual for Phase 2 to be drafted and reviewed by the Association
during Phase 1;
*     meetings with JHC members and the group as a whole to discuss technical standards;
*      increased availability of accurate and timely health information by 2003; and
*      intensified health promotion work and stronger, better enforced accountability measures together
leading to increased public awareness of technical standards and the importance of quality and
stronger demand for good service.
A second cluster of technical improvement initiatives would operate through the communicable disease
subcomponent. This task would focus on creating surveillance, analysis, and response networks across
administrative levels, developing a center of excellence for infectious diseases case management, and
enabling regional environmental health laboratories to become reference public health laboratories. This
subcomponent would support setting best practice standards for communicable diseases interventions and
case management. It would also aim at improving capacity to conduct evidence-based priority setting and
program design, and at creating an early warning system to prevent disease outbreaks. Therefore, the
project would need to ensure that district specific proposals to be prepared for Phase 2 reflects surveillance
inputs generated by the new system.
Independent oversight is a third technical mechanism. A research unit would be established through the
central component to assess project achievements based on indicators agreed during project negotiations.
Submission of TORs for the research unit is a condition for project negotiations. The scope of work of the
research unit would include: baseline, midterm, and final surveys, and some tracking studies. For project
monitoring, each project implementing unit would prepare periodic reports covering project disbursement
and project outputs. Monitoring and reporting requirements would be outlined in a project management
manual prepared by the Borrower, to be released prior to effectiveness.
Finally, the findings and implications of the above mechanisms would be pulled together in the Technical
Audit. One key theme in the latter is to be how well technical standards are being upheld and what
shortcomings can be seen. Project technical audits would be conducted regularly once a year, to be required
in the Development Credit Agreement
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Like its predecessor project, PHP If's implementation would be managed by restructured or new units and
- 25 -



bodies, e.g., merged provincial offices, health councils, Bappedas with enhanced roles, and so forth. The
likely effectiveness of these and/or alternative agencies was reviewed during project preparation.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be implemented mainly at the district and provincial levels. Under component Al,
Managing Decentralization, a number of task forces would assess district and province organizational
needs and develop and carry out responsive action programs. PHP I and other experiences would be kept
in view while assessing project management plans during appraisal.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of procurement capacity rated the project as a "high" risk at the central and provincial levels
because:
at best, staff experience with procurement under Association guidelines is limited,
there is uncertainty of district and provincial agency roles and responsibilities,
current project managers and procurement staff have generally not been selected in a competitive
process,
there are inconsistencies between the new Keppres 18/2000 and the World Bank's guidelines, and
the general procurement environment is weak
An action plan to mitigate these risks includes actions to enhance capacity, provide training, enhance planning
and controlling mechanisms, and to intensify supervision. Strong qualifications, clear and acceptable TORs,
detailed guidelines incorporated into Project Management Manual which is to be disseminated to all
involved, intensive and recurrent training, low prior review thresholds, and annual procurement reviews by
a firm hired by the MOHSW are among the elements built into this action plan (see Annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) 2000 concluded that the control environment in
Indonesia is weak despite political commitment for improvement. The Fiduciary Mission 2000 also
concluded that fiduciary environment is weak. Responsibilities are unclear, with legislative and regulatory
instruments often vague and inconsistent. The Country Corruption Index (Transparency International
Statistics) 2000 placed Indonesia as the 5th most corrupt country. In addition, many of the details of the
decentralization process remain undefined.
The Secretary General of MOHSW was the executing agency for the recently closed Bank funded Health
Project IV (Loan 3905-IND) and is the executing agency for the ongoing Health Project V (Loan
4374-IND), scheduled to be closed on March 31, 2004. Audit reports for both projects for fiscal year
1999/2000 were received by the Bank on time with unqualified opinions. Some findings requiring follow up
actions in the previous year audit reports were followed up completely.
The following are the financial management risks in the project and how they will be addressed:
a.    The risk due to lack of capacity and understanding on roles and duties of the project management
staff would be addressed by (i) adopting a Project Management Manual (PMM) covering organization
structure, job description, budgeting, procurement, record management, fixed assets and inventory
management, accounting, reporting, internal control, mechanism for providing national health grants to the
- 26 -



poorest districts, mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of project management and auditing
arrangements; and (ii) training on procurement and financial management for relevant staff within the
CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs.
b.     The risk due to lack of understanding on the roles of the Joint Health Council (JHC), the Bappeda
(district planning agency), and the Technical Review Team (TRT) on the implementation of the District
Funding Allocation is addressed by (i) adopting a Funding Allocations Operational Manual (FAOM)
covering procedures for proposal preparation and review, flow of funds, procurement and uses of funds,
accounting and reporting procedures for the funds to be followed by the DIUs, PCIUs and CPCU; and (ii)
training on the FAOM for all people involved in the project.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is unlikely to result in significant environmental impacts although those effects which occur are
likely to be positive. Such impacts would derive from environmental health components which some
districts may include as part of their service delivery plans. In addition, some health promotion activities
should also contribute to environmental improvement. In order to reduce possible adverse enviromnental
effects the District Funding Allocations Operational Manual would specify the processes, procedures, and
criteria which would be applied to district funding proposals to ensure that possible negative impacts on the
environment had been identified and addressed.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N.A.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N.A.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N.A.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Survey data and service statistics indicate that the poor make only limited use of public hospitals and health
centers in PHP II's focal provinces. Within the government system, low income clients mainly visit health
centers and subcenters, but do not make intensive and disproportionate use of these facilities. In fact, the
lowest two income quintiles account for just around 50% of health center and sub-center visits in North
Sumatera. Clearly, health centers handle a considerable volume of non-poor clients. This is even more the
case with govemment hospitals. The use of public hospitals by the two lowest income quintiles is only
around 15% in North Sumatera. A key concem for this project is to develop policies and service delivery
- 27 -



instruments to ensure that health care reaches and is used by the poor. To this end, this project would rely
on baseline surveys of the poor, piloting of National Health Grants, intensified health education, improved
accountability mechanisms, and making service access and quality for the poor an important criterion while
reviewing district grant proposals. Further preparation would examine whether the range of issues and the
responses are adequate.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Preparation          Implementation        Operation
Beneficiaries/ community groups  IS                 IS, COL               IS, COL
Intermediary NGOs
1 Academic institutions         IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL          IS, COL
Local government               IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL         IS, COL
Other donors                   IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL         IS, COL
IS = Information Sharing; CON   Consultation, COL = Collaboration
The GOI task team and the Bank preparation team have conducted stakeholder meetings in both project
provinces. This include meetings with the heads of the provinces and districts and their staff. and
representatives from local assemblies (DPRDs). Local universities such as the University of Sumatera
Utara (USU) and Padjadjaran University in West Java have been involved in developing province-wide
plans for health human resource development. In order to give better assistance to the province, the
universities would be strengthened by upgrading capacity through fellowship programs. NGOs and local
community groups have been consulted to assess the possibility of their involvement in health prevention
and promotion activities within the two provinces.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations ?
The project would develop mechanisms to ensure participation of NGOs particularly in health promotion
efforts. One measure would be to establish provincial boards, tasked with inviting, through advertisements
in local newspapers, health promotion proposals from non government organizations, and awarding
contracts to NGOs based on review of quality and appropriateness of the proposals. NGOs would also be
consulted in designing public accountability measures to be developed further during project
implementation. NGO representatives might be invited by the districts/cities to become members of the
JHCs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Involvement of NGOs, health experts, and other community groups in the Joint Health Council to be set up
in the three provinces would help ensure that district health workplans take account of demands for health
services from the community.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terns of social development outcomes?
An independent unit would be established to collect and analyze baseline, mnidterm and end of project data
to assess outcomes of different policies and interventions.
- 28 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy   - .                   ____~~~~-A -pic6 Fi
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           (9 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    C) Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   Q Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
No resettlement is anticipated by virtue of implementation of this project. Nevertheless, during
negotiations, the Borrower would be expected to agree that provisions in the Project Management Manual
and Grants Operational Manual will require that i) payment of compensation to Project Affected Persons,
i.e., those displaced from land or people whose assets are acquired, be according to principles and
guidelines acceptable to the Association; and if appropriate, an environmental impact assessment will be
carried out and mitigation measures designed, on the basis of environmental standards acceptable to the
Association;
During Negotiations, assurances would be sought that Isolated Vulnerable People, mainly the Baduy in
Banten, would be involved in the design of district health proposals through a participatory process. The
aim is to ensure that benefits made available are compatible with their social, cultural, and economic
preferences. Fortunately, much is known about the health behavior and status of the Baduy, and this
suggests that the government's approach to date has been sensitive to the lifestyle and values of this group.
For example, in 1998 the University of Padjadjaran's Research Institute carried out an Operations Research
exercise on the health service needs of the Baduy in district Lebak in Banten. The demography,
environmental sanitation, nutrition status, and water supply situation of these communities were
documented, as were health status and health seeking behavior. With Baduy agreement, an intervention
phase also took place, consisting of preventive health measures directed at young children and women who
recently gave birth. The study, which was funded by the Third Community Health and Nutrition project
(Loan 3550-Ind) found that strong and distinctive cultural patterns had not prevented the Baduy from
using publicly provided health services. This was because government staff were permitted and
encouraged to make a medium to long term commitment in the area, and to understand Baduy culture and
language, and their preferred location and times of health service delivery. The study concluded that
improvements in health status were both needed and within reach provided that local behavior and cultural
patterns were kept in view. Specific interventions were evaluated and a package of measures was
recommended. This work would be updated and revisited during the project's first year when the Banten
component would be defined in detail. As part of the required Situation Analysis for Banten province (to
be completed by February 2002), a survey would be conducted of health and service delivery needs and
preferences within Baduy communities.
- 29 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Decentralization could disrupt funding in a health sector still recovering from the economic crisis and
which was not adequately financed before the crisis. For that reason, a key PHP II goal is to promote
stability and sustainability in province and district-level health funding at adequate per capita levels.
Provinces and districts have shown their commitment to these goals by providing letters from the Bupatis
endorsed by the DPRD leadership, stating their willingness to participate in the project and repay resources
obtained on an SLA basis once terms and conditions have been established. As discussed (see Section C),
PHP II activities would be financed intially through traditional funding channels pending the determination
of SLA terms and conditions. Furthermore, as regards the level and sustainability of A3 district
allocations, assurances were received during negotiations that i) the Joint Health Councils would derive
District Funding Allocation ceilings through processes and according to criteria and assumptions
acceptable to and reviewed by the Association/Bank, and ii) district allocations during 2003-2006 would be
as specified by the JHCs. JHCs would base their calculations in part on projected annual outlays,
assuming that, as confirmed during negotiations, government health spending levels reach at least Rupiah
42,000 per capita in 2001 prices or a health budget share of 15% or higher is attained by 2006. In this
context, JHCs would review the levels and allocations of government health spending financed through
non-project means. Meanwhile, policy makers in North Sumatera, West Java, and Banten would set out
yearly targets for revenue mobilization, with component A.2 dedicated to developing the revenue generation
instruments needed to complement and replace IDA funding.
- 30 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Ratin              Risk Mitigation Measure_
From Outputs to Objective             .   __          . . . _.      _-
1. Political will and Central GOI           S        Ongoing reorganization and reform within
commitment to decentralize are not                    MOHSW includes strengthening capacity to
sustained:                                            assist the local governments.
Short and medium term decentralization agendas
a. Restricted, unflexible national policy             are being worked out and piloted within
discouraging provinces and districts to               MOHSW. The process will help to focus
test resource mobilization options.                   MOHSW strategy, including its approach to
various stakeholders, in building a sustainable,
b. MOHSW attempts to micro-manage                     decentralized system. The Decentralization Unit
service deliveiy arrangements at service              and changes in internal structures, the skill mix,
points                                                and work culture are expected to enhance the
credibility and effectiveness of MOHSW.
c. MOHSW policy efforts do not orient
public services for the poor.
d. MOHSW efforts do not strengthen the
role of the provinces in CDC
e. Government units, e.g., POM, do not
give up previous roles
f. MOHSW do not appoint full time,
qualified, and highly motivated staff.
- 31 -



Misunderstanding and rejection of           M          During appraisal and through assurances at
decentralized roles and rules by province             Negotiations, the provincial and district
and district level decision makers,                    governments signaled formally their agreement
political leaders, and staff                          to participate in the project, and their acceptance
of the arrangements, activities, and
a. Non-project local govermment health                commitments embodied in the project design.
expenditure is not maintained.                         Additional meetings, formal and informal, with
decision makers, political leaders and civil
b. No commitment to orient publicly                   society were used to build understanding and
delivered or supported services to the poor           backing for project design features. For
example, the Joint Health Councils, Technical
c. Failure to appoint and empower full                 Review Teams and District Health Forums
time, highly motivated staff who are                   would provide mechanisms to strengthen the
qualified as regards management and/or                 management, supervision, and quality control of
technical skills.                                      decentralized responsibilities.
d. Districts do not see advantages of
participating, and joint health councils
and other mechanisms are not effective.
Inadequate client/beneficiary responses to   S         Continuing dialogue is anticipated involving
new service delivery arrangements.                     NGOs, community representative groups and
local health experts to get a better understanding
of demand for and preferred methods of service
delivery. Interactive health education and
promotion activities should also prove effective
in gauging and designing appropriate responses
to client demand.
Policy makers at different levels lack the  M          Task forces, the research unit, training and other
data needed to make informed decisions.               activities would address decision makers.
- 32 -



From Components to Outputs
Difficulties in finalizing agreement on     H         Districts have provided letters from Bupatis,
terms and conditions lead districts to                after consulting with DPRD leaders, confirming
reconsider their intention to participate in          willingness to participate in the project, except
the project, or more likely to delay                  for 5 districts in West Java. Senior province
implementation of phase 2 activities.                 level leadership including political, Bappeda and
health policy makers, will continue to dialogue
with district decision makers, initially with the 5
districts in West Java, while prompt start up and
then "routinization" of JHC and other activities
help in engaging districts. At the central level,
Bappenas and MOHSW continue to press the
case for distinctive treatment of long gestation,
system building health investments while
intermediating between MOF and the provinces
and districts. Bappenas and MOHSW pursue
national health grants and other means of
enhancing equity in health financing. If these
remedies are not successful, options for scaling
down specific components, e.g. A3, may have to
be explored.
Inaccurate prediction of resource           M         The task forces on resource mobilization
mobilization                                          produce comprehensive and careful analyses of
resource mobilization potentials and modalities.
JHCs are involved actively in the development
of resource mobilization options. Regular
monitoring and evaluation ensure prompt action
and adjustments as needed.
Inadequate technical skills in planning,    M         Phase I would be used to improve the capacity
preparing district proposals and                      and readiness of districts in developing
implementation, supervision, and                      proposals and implementing activities including
evaluation. Insufficient testing of                   procurement. Intensive start-up procurement
management and procurement capability                 training linked to the Project Management
Manual will familiarize staff with different cases
and procedures. Consultants for district
proposals will be recruited with enough time for
socialization and preparation of good proposals.
Technical Review Teams will be set up at the
provincial level to review suitability and quality
of proposals.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 33 -



Given the project risks, intensive supervision would be required for the project. Besides twice yearly
formal Association/Bank missions, different task team members would conduct field visits as needed. The
task team at the field office would also maintain close communication with the project implementing units.
Cross support from other regions and units within the Bank would be sought to augment the task team.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
For Appraisal
Prior to Appraisal and as a condition for Appraisal the following items were provided for Association/Bank
review:
(1)    for North Sumatra and West Java, the terms of reference (TORs) and draft Letters of
Establishment (SKs) for the Provincial Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU); the District
Implementation Units (DIUs); the Joint Health Councils (JHCs), and the Technical Review Teams
(TRTs). TORs for the respective units include individual terms of reference and an explanation of the lines
of command and communications for the positions of District Project Director (Head of District Bappeda
or District Regional Assistant III), District Executive Secretary (Head of District Health Office), Provincial
Project Director (Head of Provincial Bappeda), Deputy Provincial Project Director (Head of Provincial
Health Office), and Provincial Executive Secretary (to be appointed).
(2)    a procurement plan detailing budget estimates and the proposed methods of procurement for all
proposed procurement action for the first year of project implementation at the district and provincial level.
(3)    TORs and the draft letter of establishment (SK) for the Central Project Coordination Unit, CPCU,
Ministry of Health. The TORs for this unit included individual terms of reference and an explanation of
the lines of command and communication centrally and in relation to the provinces and districts, for the
positions of the Project Director (Secretary General Health); Central Executive Secretary Unit Chief (to be
appointed) and the Procurement, Financial, Planning, and Monitoring and Evaluation specialists to be
attached to the CPCU.
(4)    a procurement plan detailing budget estimates and the proposed method of procurement for all
proposed procurement actions for the first year of project implementation at the central level.
For Negotiations
Prior to entering Negotiations, the following were provided for Association/Bank review:
(1)    for North Sumatera and West Java, the final SKs for the PCRJs, JHCs, and TRTs.
(2)    for North Sumatera and West Java, an indication of the funds channeling mechanisms to be used
by GOI for 2001 and 2002, and counterpart funding allocations for 2001;
(3)    for North Sumatera and West Java, a forecast of project expenditure (cash flow requirements) for
- 34 -



the first two quarters of project implementation for activities at the district and provincial level;
(4)    a training plan by which procurement and financial staff within the CPCU, the PCIUs, and DIUs,
would acquire, and update on a regular basis, the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to carry out
their respective duties in financial and procurement management as required by Association/Bank finance
and procurement guidelines;
(5)    a forecast of project expenditure (cash flow requirements) for the first two quarters of project
implementation for activities at the central level;
(6)    RFPs when technical assistance to be recruited under the QCBS method during the first year of
project implementation (2001).
(7)    a draft Project Management Manual for review; and
(8)    a copy of the letter from MOHSW1s Secretary General appointing the State Audit Authority
(BPKP) as the audit authority for the proposed project and requesting BPKP to conduct an annual financial
and implementation audit.
For Negotiations
Assurances Provided During Negotiations:
During negotiations, the Bank/Association received assurances from the Borrower that:
(1)    The province-level governments and the districts of North Sumatera had confirned their
involvement in the Project by submitting letters of Commitment agreeing to i) participate in the
Project, and ii) borrow and repay Project funds in accordance with terrns and conditions to be
agreed with the central govermment. The letters were signed by the Bupatis (district level) and
Governors (province level), with counter signatures provided by the Chair of the relevant DPRD.
Seventecn of 22 West Java districts also provided these commitment letters. (The remaining 5
districts have delayed submitting letters pending fwrther discussion with G1OI of Subsidiary Loan
tenns and conditions.)
(2)    Each district in each province would participate in the relevant JHC and in A. l and A.2
activities.
(3)    (i) The Joint Health Councils would derive District Funding Allocation ceilings through
processes and according to criteria and assumptions acceptable to and reviewed by the
Association/Bank, (ii) block allocations during 2003-2006 would be as specified by the JHCs, and
(iii) govemrnment health spending levels would be equal to at least 42,000 per capita in 2001 prices
or 15% of total district expenditures by the end of the project (2006).
(4)    Isolated Vulnerable People (the Baduy in Banten) would be involved in the design of district health
proposals through a participatory process.
(5)    Steps and procedures bearing on the review of District proposals for use of Funding Allocations
would be detailed in a District Funding Allocations Operational Manual whose scope and content would be
agreed with the Association/Bank by April 2002. Among other things, this Manual would (i) provide
- 35 -



guidance to the JHCs concerning the criteria, standards, and trade-offs they should keep in view when
assessing District proposals, and (ii) specify the processes, procedures, and criteria which would be applied
to district funding proposals to ensure that possible negative impacts on the environment and Isolated
Indigenous Peoples had been identified and addressed.
(6)    Concerning component B.2, the Borrower would: i) complete the review and socialization of the
surveillance strategy during the first year of implementation; ii) provide the Association/Bank a signed
copy of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the province/districts and the center indicating
acceptance of the proposed surveillance strategy.
For Credit Effectiveness
The following are to be received prior to Credit/Loan Effectiveness and as a condition for Credit ILoan
Effectiveness:
(1)   for North Sumatera and West Java, the PCIUs, DIUs, JHCs, and TRTs have been established with
terms of reference, facilities, and staff acceptable to the Association/Bank.
(2)   the terms of reference and appointment of members for each Task Force, along with the
names of those designated to be Task Force leaders have been issued.
(3)   the CPCU has been established with terms of reference, facilities, and staff acceptable to the
Association/Bank.
(4)   the Provincial Health Promotion Boards (PHIPBs) in North Sumatera and West Java have
been established with terms of reference, facilities, and staff acceptable to the Association/Bank.
(5)    A Project Management Manual, approved by the Association/Bank, covering job
descriptions, procurement methods, financial management, and reporting arrangements, together
with an approved plan for training on the manual.
(6)   finalized termns of reference acceptable to the Association/Bank for a firm to conduct
procurement training.
(7)    a request for proposals acceptable to the Association/Bank for a firm to conduct
procurement reviews has been issued.
During Implementation
For Organization and Management:
The Borrower shall -
(a)    maintain, for the life of the project the staffing and facilities for the CPCU, PCIUs, DIUs,
JHCs, TRTs, and Provincial Health Promotion Boards as agreed during project Negotiations and in
compliance with the terms of reference agreed at Appraisal.
For Monitoring, Review and Reporting:
The Borrower shall -
- 36 -



(a)    starting not later than August 15, 2002 until project close, submit for Association/Bank
review, in a format specified in the Project Management Manual, a project management report, covering
the previous quarter of the fiscal year and a forecast of project expenditure for the following two quarters
of the fiscal year for project activities at the district, provincial and central level,
(b)   in conjunction with the project management report, provide in a format acceptable to the
Association/Bank, (i) by March I and September 1 of each year, starting September 1, 2002, a report
integrating results of monitoring and evaluation activities for the preceding period, and (ii) a procurement
plan due by September 1 each year, detailing proposed procurement action for implementation in the
following fiscal year at the district, provincial and central level, to be updated by March 1 each year and
(iii) incorporate Association/Bank recommendations for the greater efficiency and effectiveness of the
project, based on the review of the above documents,
(c)    maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
procurement practices (including related supervision, review and auditing) the procurement activities of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof;
(d)    ensure that all such records (including public notices of bidding opportunities, bidding
documents and addenda, bid opening information, bid evaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and
outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and
records of time taken to complete key steps in the process evidencing such procurement activities are
retained until at least two (2) years after the Closing Date.
(e)    by September 30, 2002 and thereafter by September 30 in each year of project
implementation until project close, except for September 30, 2004, recruit a firm to conduct an independent
technical audit of project implementation of the preceding fiscal year employing terms of reference
acceptable to the Association covering financial and disbursement data, procurement actions and
implementation progress at the district, provincial and central level,
(f)    by March 31, 2003 and thereafter by March 31 in each year of project implementation
until project close, except for March 31, 2004, submit for Association/Bank review the results of the
annual independent technical audit and incorporate the Association/Bank's commnents and recommendations
into procurement and implementation planning for the following fiscal year,
(g)    by June 30, 2004 submit for Association/Bank review (which is to take place by
September 30, 2004), employing terms of reference acceptable to the Association, a comprehensive
mid-term assessment of project implementation and impact and promptly thereafter take all measures
required to ensure efficient completion of the project, and in particular detail how the funding allocation
mechanism which allows districts to identify and develop programs to address health priorities specific to
the individual districts will be sustained after the Closing Date; and
(h)    within six months after the Closing Date submit for Association incorporation into the
Implementation Completion Report, ICR, comments and lessons learned from the Borrower's perspective
throughout implementation of the project.
2. Other
the Borrower shall -
(a)    ensure that all studies conducted by Task Forces are carried out in accordance with terms
- 37 -



of reference and timing acceptable to the Association/Bank and that the results are furnished to the
Association/Bank no later than two months after each task/study is completed and promptly thereafter the
Borrower will prepare an action plan, which incorporates the comments of the Association, to irnplement
the recommendations of the Task Force;
(b)    by not later than April 30, 2002 issue a Funding Allocations Operational Manual setting
out procedures for using District Funding Allocations which is acceptable to the Association/Bank; and
(c)    ensure that withdrawal of the proceeds for sub- component B3 would proceed only when
i) the names of the members of the designated review team, ii) criteria to be used in determining district
eligibility, iii) criteria including respective weights to be used in evaluating proposals, and iv) the role of the
Decentralization Unit in coordinating, facilitating, and managing the National Health Grants had been
agreed with the Association/Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(1)    Withdrawal of proceeds for District Funding Allocations may only be made after (1) the Borrower
and all eligible districts have agreed upon financing terms acceptable to the Bank/Association in respect of
such Allocations and (2) a Funding Allocations Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank/Association
has been issued by the Borrower.
(2)    National Health Grants would be provided after obtaining the prior approval of the
Association/Bank. When presenting a proposed National Health [Grant] to the Association/Bank for review
and approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association/Bank a draft national health [grant] agreement
with the intended recipient in a form satisfactory to the Association/Bank, together with (a) a description of
the activities which the Borrower intends to finance with the proceeds of such [grant], (b) a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of such proceeds, and (c) such other information as the
Association/Bank shall reasonably request.
H. Readiness for Implementation
E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 38 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconmmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ua fiXJf                                                                    _ _ ._
Samuel S. Lieberman                  .  aureen lw                         Mark Baird
Team Leader                          Sector Director                      Country Director
- 39 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
"Delivering better public  Increased utilization of public Survey data and other  Decentralization provides an
services to the poor, which    facilities (or publicly funded  information sources  opportunity to go beyond
involves assistance to help    private facilities) by the lowest                JPS-BK, to improve poor
define govemment roles and  income quintile group, and    Reports from project  households' access to
responsibilities as functions   increased            monitoring, evaluation and   affordable, adequate quality
are decentralized, support for coverage/effectiveness of  research activities. Public    health services, leading to
improved public service   public health services     expenditure and institutional  improved health status.
delivery by sub-national                             reviews
governments which have    IMRs, MMRs, and other
demonstrated pro-poor,    outcome indicators
pro-growth reform, as well as
promoting community
development."
Strengthening accountability,
health work force
management, resource
mobilization and health
financing, and provider
technical and decision making
skills would lead to improved
quality and effectiveness of
health services, and enhanced
the health status of the poor.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To bring about effective health  I . Changes in organization Reports from project  1. Implementation of effective
sector decentralization in the  structure, health    monitoring, evaluation and    decentralized health
provinces of Banten, North     financing mechanisms, research activities        management is essential for
Sumatera, and West Java        service delivery                                 improving the quality and
arrangements and work                           effectiveness of health service
force policies                                  delivery.
2. Implementation of
effective, locally                              2. The districts agree promptly
relevant curative service                       to the terms and conditions
delivery and financing                          proposed for the SLA.
arrangements
3. Implementation of
effective, locally
grounded public health
service provision and
financing arrangements
- 40 -



To assist MOHSW in           1. Increased awareness    Reports from project        MOHSW takes on its
delineating and carrying out    within GOI and among  monitoring, evaluation and    distinctive sector leadership
its roles in a decentralized    the public of health   research activities         role within a decentralized
health system                    issues/risks/solutions                            system. This includes
2. Indications of enhanced                            defining/highlighting health
commitment at the                                 priorities, developing
province and district                             consensus among the
levels including                                  stakeholders, building a data
financing of priority                             base/carrying out analysis, and
programs, and basic                               developing ways of
services/drugs for the                            influencing local governments
poor, and inclusion of                            to focus on priority health
health indicators in the                          programs and protection of the
block funding allocation                          poor.
(DAU) formula
3. Effective partnership
arrangements with
districts and provinces
and with NGOs
4. Enhanced effectiveness
of communicable disease
surveillance.
5. Enhanced food and
drug inspection systems
and public
accountability.
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Districts and Provinces
1. Managing Decentralization
Strengthened district planning 1. Strong planning unit at the  Reports from project  1. Political will and
and budgeting capacity     district level.             monitoring, evaluation and    commitment to decentralize
2. Adequate local government research activities.       are sustained
resource allocation for health  Project supervision reports    2. Understanding/acceptance
programs.                                               of decentralized roles and
3. Evidence based and local                             rules by province and district
specific annual health plans.                           level staff.
3. Adequate public responses
to new service delivery
arrangements.
- 41 -



Strengthened service delivery  1. Different service delivery    Reports from project   4. Joint health councils and
approaches                   options from total public    monitoring, evaluation and    other mechanisms prove to be
services to a mix of         research activities.         effective
public-private services      Project supervision reports
depending on local
characteristics.
2. Demand responsive mix of
curative and public health
service alternatives at the
health centers
Strengthened work force      I. Number of health staff    Reports from project
policies                     consistent with organization   monitoring, evaluation and
function and workload.       research activities, and from
2. Availability of staff career  Task Force.
development and quality      Project supervision reports
improvement plan.
3. Reduced percentage of
non-health staff.
4. Availability of a regulatory
framework for licensing and
accreditation of health
professionals.
5. Availability of an effective
manpower information system
Strengthened health          1. Availability of a recording  Reports from project
information system           and reporting system for     monitoring, evaluation and
public and private services.   research activities, and from
2. Availability of data and  Task Force.
information for annual       Project supervision reports
planning.
3. Results of community based
survey and rapid survey
Strengthened public          1. Implementation of public   Reports from project
accountability               accountability mechanisms at monitoring, evaluation and
the 3 provinces              research activities.
Project supervision reports
Strengthened health          I. The establishment of a health  Reports from project
promotion activities         promotion board in each province monitoring, evaluation and
2. Number of health promotion   research activities.
proposals from NGOs received,  Project supervision reports
and the nurnber financed by the
project
- 42 -



2. Resource Mobilization
Strengthened mechanisms      l. Increase of health percapita Reports from project      1. Eclectic, flexible national
aimed at sustainable local   spending from local          monitoring, evaluation and    policy encouraging provinces
funding.                    government resources.         research activities and from    and districts to test resource
2. Percentage of health centers the Task Force.           mobilization options.
and hospitals as public      Project supervision reports
enterprises/autonomous units.
3. Number of service delivery
contracts to third party payers.
4. Better targeted govemment
subsidies (towards the poor
and public goods).
5. Results of prepayrnent pilot
studies.
6. Percentage of health
insurance participants.
3. District Funding
Allocations
Intensified delivery of curative 1. Increased health spending   Reports from project   1. Local Govemment health
and public health services and from local govemment       monitoring, evaluation and    spending levels reach at least
improved quality of health    resources.                  research activities.         Rp. 42,000 per capita in 2001
services.                    2. Coverage of priority public  The PMR.                  prices or a health budget share
health programs              Project supervision reports    of 15% or higher by 2006.
3. Contact rate of poor people                            2. The JHC would derive
at health facilities                                      District Funding Allocation
4. Hospital BORs, LOS and                                 ceilings through processes and
TOls                                                      according to criteria and
5. Agreed cross district                                  assumptions acceptable to and
activities.                                               reviewed by the
6. Clear roles of the province                            Association/Bank.
in assisting district health                              3. The JHC is functioning as a
strategy                                                  forum to discuss cross district
issues, and make
recommendations and
decisions.
5. Project Management        1. Clear functions of project   Project progress report   1. Appointment and
Strong project management   management staff at all levels Project Management Report  empowerment of full time,
support                      2. Timely delivery of agreed   (PMR)                      qualified, and highly
outputs.                     Project disbursement records  motivated staff.
3. Good procurement and      Project supervision reports
financial management
practices.
- 43 -



B. Center
1. Institutional Development  1. Established functional  Reports from project      1. Commitment to sustain
Strengthened roles and     central decentralization unit,  monitoring, evaluation and    decentralization initiatives.
functions of central MOH   2. Number of workshops or   research activities.
seminars with different     Project supervision reports
stakeholders
3. Number of staff
participating in in-country as
well as overseas training
4. Number of pilots and policy
studies
5. Established on line facility
for knowledge sharing
6. Number and types of
technical assistance
2. Strengthening
Communicable Diseases
Control
Disease surveillance and    1. Establishment of Province, Reports from project      1. Commitment to strengthen
prevention programs are    District and Health Center    monitoring, evaluation and   the role of the provinces in
strengthened               based surveillance teams.   research activities.        CDC.
2. GIS is used as a decision    Project supervision reports
making tool.
3. Reduced communicable
disease outbreaks resulting
from implementation of
EWORS.
4. Reduced CFR (Case Fatality
Rates) due to prompt response
during outbreaks.
5. Establishment of Provincial
Public Health Laboratories.
6. Improved communicable
disease case management
practices.
- 44 -



3. Equity in Service Provision, 1. A National Health Grants   Reports from project    1. The center doesn't attempt
particularly at poor districts.  mechanism to assist poorer    monitoring, evaluation and    to micro-manage service
districts is established    research activities.         delivery arrangements at
2. Number of poverty grant   Project supervision reports    service points
proposals from poor districts                            2. Commitment to orient
approved and implemented                                 publicly delivered or
3. Examples of policy                                    supported services to the poor
responses towards the needs
of the poor.
4. Proposal to MOF to
sustain/institutionalize this
approach
5. Percentage of poor people
covered in the provinces
receiving poverty and health
grants
4. Health research           1. Types of needed research on Reports from project      1. Commitment from NIHRD
requirements and options    decentralization             monitoring, evaluation and    to support a decentralized
within a decentralized system  2. Strategy to improve the  research activities.       health management.
identified                  utilization of high quality  Project supervision reports
research findings
1. Results of capacity      Reports from project         1. Commitment to transform
5. Strengthened capacity in   assessment                 monitoring, evaluation and    the Food and Drug Control
conducting food and drug    2. Number of staff           research activities.         Agency into a scientific and
control.                    participating in specific    Project supervision reports   risk management based
training programs                                        organization
3. Enhanced inspection
systems
4. Number of Regional
Complaint Resolution Units.
Project progress report     1. Commitment to appoint full
6. Proiect Management       1. Clear functions of project   Project Management Report  time, qualified and highly
Strong project management   management staff at all levels (PMR)                      motivated staff.
support                     2. Timely delivery of agreed   Project disbursement records
outputs.                    Project supervision reports
3. Good procurement and
financial management
practices.
4. Receipt of situation
analysis/ project proposal from
Banten province
5. Timely selection of a
research unit for the project
- 45 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicajors          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. Province and District
1. Managing Decentralization US$ 20.07 million
2. Resource Mobilization  USS 2.43 million
3. District Funding       USS 850.44 million
Allocations
4. Project Management     US$ 5.03 million
B. Center
1. Institutional Development  US$ 1.92 million
2. Strengthening          US$ 8.57 million
Communicable Diseases
Control
3. Assuring Equity in Service  US$ 3.48 million
Provision
4. Assessing Health Research  USS 0.06 million
Needs, Capacities, and
Options.
5. Strengthening Food and    US$ 2.01 million
Drug Control
6. Project Management     US$ 1.79 million
- 46 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH 11
Background
Indonesia is decentralizing its system of government. This process prornises major benefits, but is not risk
free for a health system whose public sector component has long been closely guided from Jakarta. What
makes the present policy scene even more challenging is the weak budgetary setting in which
decentralization is taking place.
Scope
PHP II focuses on North Swmatra, West Java, and Banten, and on activities in a central MOHSW
component which is not directed at pre-selected provinces.
Project Objectives
Tlhe project's goals are, first, to bring about effective health sector decentralization in the provinces of
North Sumatera, West Java, and Banten. The challenge is to initiate key sector reforms and put health
financing on a firm footing, while protecting health services which are essential for the poor and the public
at large during a period of governiment restructuring. The second objective is to help the Ministry of Health
and Social Welfare (MOHSW) carry out its roles in a decentralized system.
Approach to Reform
A multi-element approach has been developed in response to challenges and opportunities associated with
decentralization, First, MOHSW is making the adjustments and developing the policy instruments needed
for it to function as the indispensable lead agency within a decentralized health sector. During and after
decentralization, MOHSW's key responsibilities are to include developing sectoral vision, and translating
this into a national agenda; acting as an information clearing house; analysis and policy follow up of the
health needs of the poor and risks to the public at large; support for best practices and standards;
promoting equity in health financing between regions and income groups; and upgrading regulation of drug
and food safety and commnunicable disease developments.
Second, within MOHSW a Decentralization Unit is being established to guide the nministry and sector
through the challenges entailed in decentralization. Another policy tool would provide special grants to
poor districts which are redesigning their health interventions, while the Directorates General (DGs) for
Communicable Diseases, Health Research, and Drug and Food Control are modiifying their institutional
mnissions and modus operandi, with the latter becomning an autonomous agency outside MOHSW.
Province-level initiatives represent a distinctive part of MOHSW's decentralization and reform strategy.
The first Provincial Health Project (PHP I; effective August 200 1) provided a template for health
decentralization within sub-national operational frameworks. The proposed project would extend this
approach.
-47 -



Project Mechanisms and Phasing
The key to the PHP approach is the annual review of district proposals to use funding allocations financed
by project. Various preparatory, support, oversight, evaluative and follow up activities would be keyed to
the formulation and implementation of these proposals. The proposal process is scheduled to start after
capacity building activities have been undertaken during Phase 1 (2001-2002). Then in Phase 2
(2003-2006), PHP 11 would finance district health improvement and reform proposals which have benefited
from technical support and quality assurance mechanisms, and been reviewed in terms of technical and
other criteria. Resources for Phase I activities are to be provided to local governments initially through
traditional funding allocation and transfer mechanisms. In other words, project funds along with
counterpart financing would be conveyed to districts and provinces through national development budget
channels. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) expects to finalize, after appropriate consultation, rules and
regulations governing Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) to local governments. The SLA terms and
conditions which are issued and applied to PHP II are expected to reflect the costs of obtaining financing,
the repayment ability of each spending entity, and whether funds are to be spent on public goods which may
have long gestation, institutional development features as compared to directly productive activities.
Phase 1. The first 18 months would set the stage for decentralization and health reform (components Al
and A2). (Phase I in Banten would cover the 2001 - 2003 interval and Phase 2 would span 2004 - 2006.)
One task would be to orient participants to new roles and rules, and to underscore the focus on poverty and
public health functions. Also, districts would prepare Situation Analyses and four year frameworks, and
Task Forces would address institutional and manpower issues and assist in building district implementation
capacity, including upgrading health information systems.
Phase 2. PHP II would finance (component A.3) proposed district expenditures expected to have a large
health payoff in respect to the poor and the public overall. Local decision makers, would work out health
priorities and action plans, and be fully accountable for the results.
Process as well as output indicators have been selected to monitor PHP. For the institution development
components (Al and A2), the indicators relate to improvement of organizational structure and functions,
staffing, and resource mobilization. These may include: completing the merger of Dinas and Kanwil at the
provincial level, the number of autonomous (self sufficient) facilities, and the number of facilities with
quality assurance mechanisms. For the service delivery component (A3), process indicators include the
annual proposals for district funding allocations, and periodic JHC reports on the performance of such
allocations. Output indicators include facility use by the poor, coverage of promotive and preventive
services, and case finding and treatment of particular diseases.
Preparation and Review Responsibilities
A3 ceiling per district per year would be determined by the JHCs based on criteria acceptable to the
Association/Bank. Allocation proposals would be submitted by District Implementation Units (DIUs).
These proposals, once endorsed by the Bupati, would be sent for evaluation by a Technical Review Team
(TRT) established in the provincial health office. The TRT would review proposals based on procedures
acceptable to the Association/Bank and specified in a Funding Allocations Operational Manual. The
TRT would then forward its evaluation to the Joint Health Council (JHC), which would have review
functions. If and when the district proposals were endorsed by the JHC, they would be forwarded for
Association/Bank review, and then funded.
- 48 -



By Component:
Project Component I - US$20.07 million
Component A.1: Managing Decentralization (District and Provincial) - US$ 20.07 million
Project-supported Task Forces would focus on critical institutional topics and develop recommendations
for implementation immediately in Phase I and in Phase 2. The Task Forces would cover: the restructuring
of health service organizations and management arrangements of entities implementing health services;
developing and implementing new human resource management policies; developing and implementing new
health information systems covering health indicators, and service delivery, facility and staffing
information; upgrading the regulatory framework for health services, through strengthening the licensing
and certification of health sector professionals and the accreditation of health care organizations;
strengthening public accountability mechanisms; and establishing a health promotion board in each of the
Project Provinces to foster health public and private sector promotion activities.
Project funds would be spent on technical assistance, workshops, training, study tours, research and
studies, and monitoring and evaluation.
Subcomponent A.l.I: Restructuring Health Organization in the Provinces and Districts - US$ 5.28
million
During the first 18 months, the provinces would finalize new institutional arrangements created by the
merger of the Kanwil and Dinas Kesehatan. Joint Health Councils would be established to function as an
advisory body to the Govemor and to review service delivery proposals from the districts. Meanwhile,
districts would give hospitals and other implementing units (health centers, subcenters, laboratories) more
authority and flexibility in dealing with services, financial resources and human resources. Activities
would include establishing a Task Force on organizational issues; identifying key issues; developing new
approaches; publicizing and implementing the new system; evaluating results; and revising as needed.
Conceming reform of implementing units, activities would include studies on autonomous health units;
planning for facility management change; problem diagnosis; strategy development; information
dissemination to the public; technical and management guidance; and developing and conducting training
on financial accounting.
Funds would be allocated for technical assistance, studies, workshops, training and monitoring and
evaluation activities.
Subcomponent A.1.2: Human Resource Management and Development - US$ 9.84 million
Task Forces would help the provinces/districts to develop human resource management policies to support
organizaton reforms. The new policies would likely include downsizing, redeployment, early retirement
and contractual arrangements.
Activities would consist of preparing a plan to support the organization during the transition period;
developing downsizing methods, compensation packages and other manpower policies; communicating
decisions to staff; and designing a career development system, and continuing education and/or skills
enhancement programs.
Funds would be allocated for technical assistance, training, workshops, pilots, fellowship and studies.
- 49 -



Subcomponent A.1.3: Developing Health Information Systems- US$ 2.95 million
Task Forces would help the provinces and districts to adapt and refine the existing health infornation
system to support decentralization. The new system would comprise of facility based information,
community based information, and epidemiological surveillance data. Activities include reviewing the
existing system; developing a master plan and a blueprint for a new health information system; identifying
and developing software applications; conducting trials and monitoring and evaluating results; and refining
the system
Funds would be allocated for technical assistance, pilots, training, workshop, hardware and software
procurement
Subcomponent A.1.4: Upgrading the Regulatory Framework - US$ 0.54 million
Task Forces on this topic would assist the provinces and districts in strengthening the licensing and
certification of health professionals, and accreditation of health care organizations currently carried out by
the government in collaboration with professional organizations. The objective of this subcomponent is to
improve the quality of health professionals and health care organizations. Outputs would likely include
establishment of Boards to license health professionals and for health care organizations, and improved
licensing and accreditation systems.
Activities regarding licensing and certification of health professionals would include: establishing a
working group on health professional licensure; identifying general issues of concern; assessing the existing
system; designing a new system for professional licensure; establishing a licensing board for health
professionals; developing licensing examinations for health professionals; publicizing and implementing the
licensing mechanism; and evaluating the licensing mechanism.
To strengthen accreditation of health care organizations, activities would include: establishing a working
group on accreditation of health care organizations; identifying general issues of concern; assessing the
existing accreditation system; investigating development of accreditation system for other health care
organizations; establishing an independent agency for accreditation of health care organizations;
publicizing and implementing accreditation for health care organizations; and evaluation of accreditation
systems.
Funds would be allocated for technical assistance, studies, seminars, workshops, training, short term
fellowships/study tours and some start up costs.
Subcomponent A.1.5: Strengthening Public Accountability - US$ 0.81 million
The concerned Task Force would help the provinces strengthen accountability as well as sensitivity to
customer needs by implementing social campaigns on customer rights. A working group would be
established among others to develop a "Health Consumer Agency" which would conduct audit and provide
feed back to the different health institutions at the provincial/district levels. Complaint resolution
mechanisms, and a special post office box would be strengthened and expanded to facilitate complaints
from customers. Public participation in developing public health policies would be encouraged through
information sharing, consultation and partnership.
Activities would involve: developing a Task Force on consumer service and accountability; reviewing
- 50 -



existing public accountability mechanisms; developing models to support public involvement (customer
service manual, post office box, complaint resolution mechanisms); conducting trials and deciding on
appropriate provincial models; conducting workshops and training; implementing the system.
Resources would be allocated for technical assistance, pilots, seminar/workshop and training
SubcomponentA.1.6: Intensifying Health Promotion - US$ 0.65 million
During the first 18 months, North Sumatra and West Java would each establish a health promotion board,
while Banten would do the same in the second phase of implementation. The Board would be a unit whose
members include active or retired civil servants as well as individuals drawn from NGO and/or private
sector backgrounds. The Board's main task is to elicit, enable, and fund health education and health
promotion proposals from groups working outside the government. Health promotion efforts would
increase the salience of specific health issues within the community and the government. Working together
with the public accountability working group, a health information center would be established to create
well informed health care consumers. Using local resources, the government health education unit would
also conduct specific health promotion campaigns based on comrnmunity need assessments and
epidemiological surveillance data.
Project Component 2 - US$2.43 million
Component A.2: Resource Mobilization for Health - US$ 2.43 Million
During the first 18 months, the provinces and districts would develop, through Task Forces, a decentralized
planning and budgeting system that would enable the local government to plan and develop efficient,
effective and equitable programs according to conmmunity needs. In addition, options for resource
mobilization would be assessed along with likely costs and the stream of benefits expected. These may
include alternative insurance approaches, requiring facilities to rely on cost recovery, and tax-based and
other means of generating resources for health. In addition, resource mobilization might include charitable
grants, leverage of private funds, and different ways of reducing patient/client loads in the public systems.
Funds would be allocated for technical assistance, workshops, studies/survey, training, pilots, monitoring
and evaluation.
The Task Force on this topic would advise the provinces and districts on how to convert hospitals, health
centers and other facilities into self supporting/autonomous enterprises. The objective would be to make
service units self sufficient while also improving service quality and effectiveness by giving them the
authority and flexibility to pursue cost recovery and utilize the budget for facility operations.
Implementation of health insurance pilots with project support would likely occur from FY 2003 onwards.
Activities for developing self supporting/autonomous units and insurance approaches could include:
developing self supporting enterprises; conducting feasibility studies comprising market surveys,
competitor surveys, ability and willingness to pay surveys, and calculation of new tariffs based on survey
results; providing assistance in reviewing health center and hospital performance, and deciding on tariffs on
services; developing new health center and hospital management by designing suitable organization
structures; conducting lobby and coordination meetings with the DPRD and political parties; developing
regional regulations; and disseminating new policy ideas to the community.
Activities to develop health insurance would include: conducting feasibility studies and surveys on existing
health insurance schemes; developing alternative health insurance models; providing training through long
- 51 -



term fellowships and in service training; promoting health insurance through community meetings at the
subdistrict level, and meetings with community organizations, health services units and professional
organizations, and periodically meetings with labor unions, company owners and insurance companies;
developing the legal base for health insurance, through reviews of existing regulations on health insurance,
development of regional regulations (Perda) and coordination meetings with the DPRD and political
parties; designing a health insurance organization including provision of management, financial and
actuarial guidance; and piloting health insurance programs.
Resources would be allocated for technical assistance, studies and surveys, pilots, workshops,
training, marketing, initial capital investment (for poor families), and monitoring and evaluation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 850.44 million
Component A3: District Funding Allocation - US$ 850.44 million
Starting in 2003 (2004 in Banten), Association/Bank resources would be channeled to districts through
block allocations with the aim of raising government health spending to levels which are sustainable during
the medium term. During Appraisal, it was agreed that the Joint Health Councils in North Sumatera and
West Java would take on the task of setting block allocation ceilings for individual districts for each year
during 2003-2006. The JHCs would draw on updated estimates of likely overall district expenditure levels
(routine and development), and would base their calculations on predicted levels of sustainable health
spending assuming government health spending levels equal to at least 42,000 per capita in 2001 prices or
a 15% health share of district budgets are attained. JHCs would base their decisions on other on other
infornation as well, including their assessment of the likely effectiveness of the level and mix of
government health spending financed through non-project means. The locally financed portion of the
district budget is treated as counterpart funding (hence the large size of this component). During
Negotiations, assurances were received that i) the JHCs would derive district ceilings through processes
and according to criteria and assumptions acceptable to and reviewed by the Association/Bank, and ii)
block allocations during 2003-2006 would be as specified by the JHCs. Based on these ceilings, district
teams would then prepare four year health improvement frameworks, updated annually, as well as detailed
proposals for the following 12 months. Draft proposals would reflect poverty and epidemiological
characteristics, service use patterns, local health priorities and capacities. Performance indicators and
notional budgets, and procurement and financial management plans would be required elements in these
proposals. The plans would focus on improving the coverage and quality of public health services for the
entire population, and curative care for the poor. The drafts would be evaluated by Technical Review
Teams, and then reviewed by Joint Health Councils made up mainly of district and Civil Society
representatives, and by the Association/Bank. During project implementation, allocation levels for each
district would be reviewed annually in light of fiscal and economic conditions and health spending and
system performance. Revised allocation figures would be submitted to the Association/Bank for review.
Project Component 4 - US$5.03 million
Component A.4: Project Management (District and Provincial) - US$ 5.03 million
Project management units would be established at the province and district levels. Funds would be
allocated to support consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops, project management
training and project supervision.
- 52 -



Project Component 5 - US$1.92 million
Component B.1: Institutional Development - US$ 1.92 million
The goal of this sub-component is to support MOHSW's sector leadership role within a decentralized
system. To this end, PHP II would assist in establishing a small functional decentralization unit reporting
to the Minister and headed by an Echelon I official. The unit is needed to help MOHSW respond
consistently and promptly to the issues which are arising with decentralization. For instance, provinces and
districts are considering how to organize themselves and focus their attention and resources. Meanwhile
within GOI and at other government levels, the economic and political environment for health and other
sectors is more competitive. MOHSW itself is reorganizing and downsizing--this could limit its leadership
and support activities unless it takes suitable steps.
The Unit, which would be set up initially for two years with possible extension linked to its performnance,
would be staffed by a core team of 3-4 experts, supported by consultants and representatives of key
MOHSW DGs. PHP II would support several key staff and activities for the unit, as would Ausaid,
WHO, and possibly other donors. The proposed project would also fund seminars, workshops, and
training on policy analysis, institutional and health economics, and problem solving, communications, and
consultancy skills. Participants would be staff working or affiliated with the new Unit. The project would
also support establishment of district and facility level health boards, and health-related associations.
During Negotiations, assurances were received that the Borrower, before drawing on the proceeds of the
Credit/Loan, would i) issue a Ministerial Decree, acceptable to the Association/Bank, establishing the
Decentralization Unit, and ii) provide the Association/Bank a signed copy of a Memorandum of
Understanding between the Government and the participating donors covering the goals and modalities of
the Decentralization Unit, and staffing and funding levels and arrangements.
Within this context, MOHSW expects the Decentralization Unit to take on facilitative, coordinating, and
analytical responsibilities. Its tasks would include: monitoring decentralization by region and level;
managing the National Health Grants process; facilitating MOHSW's adjustment to decentralized rules and
responsibilities; advising on existing and proposed decentralization legislation; suggesting improvements in
the formula and process for General Block Grants (DAUs); and updating MOHSW's decentralization
strategy.
The main task assigned to the Decentralization Unit, i.e., helping MOHSW assume its leadership
responsibilities, would require adjustments in the Ministry's skill mix and work culture. In this regard,
PHP II would include the resources required to develop MOHSW into a learning organization. The main
areas to be addressed would be systematic problem solving, experimentation with new approaches, learning
from the experiences and best practices of others, and transferring knowledge quickly and efficiently
throughout the organization. Attention would be given to retraining staff assigned to technical jobs after
years in administration. Project funds would be used to recruit technical assistance teams, develop
instruments and modules, and sponsor or conduct training, workshops, and seminars.
PHP II's assistance to MOHSW would also include knowledge sharing programs for internal as well as
external audiences through an on-line system. The aim of internal knowledge sharing would be enhanced
performance, by equipping staff with high quality, up-to-date and easily accessible tools. External
knowledge sharing would give MOHSW's clients and partners access to informnation on health issues of
interest. Support would be provided for the training and equipment needed to set up and operate the
- 53 -



website.
Project Component 6 - US$8.57 million
Component B.2: Strengthening Communicable Disease Control - US$ 8.57 million
The project will help to transform the existing Directorate General (DG) for Communicable Disease
Control into a specialized agency within MOHSW. To this end, PHP HI would support the adaptation and
improvements in North Sumatera and West Java of the integrated surveillance system currently being
implemented in 6 other provinces with ADB support. This approach strengthens the epidemiological
surveillance system at each level and develops cross-level networking. The Epidemiological Surveillance
Team (EST) would support district, provincial and central level management with data analysis, providing
information on vulnerable areas, risk factors, and/or other indicators of health problems or diseases.
PHP II would also assist in the development of referral and laboratory facilities for infectious diseases to
back up improved province and district level surveillance and response efforts. The Sulianti Saroso
Infectious Diseases Hospital would play a strategic role as center of excellence for infectious diseases case
management and laboratory confirmations and the Technical Environment Health Laboratories (BTKLs) in
Medan and Jakarta would serve as regional reference facilities. During negotiations, assurances were
received that the Borrower would: i) complete the review and socialization of the surveillance strategy
during the first year of implementation; ii) provide the Association/Bank a signed copy of a Memorandum
of Understanding (MOU) between the province/districts and the center indicating acceptance of the
proposed surveillance strategy. Such an MOU would become a condition for disbursing credit/loan funds
for component B2 during year 2002 onwards.
1)    Setting up Epidemiological Surveillance Teams at each level.
In order to manage epidemiological data, Epidemiological Surveillance Teams (EST) would be
established in each province. The PEST (Provincial Epidemiological Surveillance Team), DEST
(District Epidemiological Surveillance Team), and TEPUS (Team Epidemiologi Puskesmas) would
provide epidemiological information for evidence-based decision making to the provincial health
offices, district health offices and health centers.
Steps:
a)    EST review and evaluations
b)     Developing Guidelines
c)    EST dissemination and advocacy
d)    Establishing and implementing EST
e)    Monitoring and evaluation
2)    Epidemiological surveillance data management and dissemination of information
The task consists of data collection, processing, analyzing, and disseminating informnation. The
information would be used in evidence-based decision making for health managers. Epidemiological
Surveillance Teams would need to be prepared for their new roles and responsibilities.
Steps:
a)     Standardization of surveillance system
b)     Validation and data update
c)     Data analysis and interpretation
d)    Information dissemnination and feedback
- 54 -



3)    Development of Early Warning Outbreaks Response System
The Early Warning Outbreaks Response System (EWORS) is a key part of epidemiological
surveillance information management. This data collection and analysis process can detect trends in
disease incidence and casual factors setting the stage for prompt corrective actions.
Steps:
a)    Development of standards and guidelines for EWORS
b)     Development of training curriculums, modules
c)    Training of trainers for EWORS and training for staff
d)     Systematic advocacy
e)    Implementing EWORS
f)     Monitoring and evaluation
4)     Replication of Geographical Information System for Communicable Diseases Control
The Geographical Infornation System (GIS) is recognized as a basic tool, which could accommnodate
data or information from surveillance, programs, and management for planning, monitoring and
evaluation of communicable diseases control. Based on experience in 6 provinces and 21 districts, GIS
would be replicated in North Sumatera and West Java.
Steps:
a)     Review the existing computerized telecommunication network
b)    Review and develop guidelines and standard operating procedures for CDC - GIS
c)     Review of training curricula and modules
d)     Provision of hardware and software
e)    Training of trainers and staff for GIS
f)     Systematic advocacy
g)    Implementing GIS
h)     Monitoring and evaluation
5)    Development of Management Information System Network
The network would be developed between health centers, and the district, province and central levels.
Health offices, public health laboratories, environmental health laboratories, vector control field
stations, and port health offices in West Java and North Sumnatera would be included.
Steps
a)    Identification of the existing electronic communication network facilities
b)     Development of guidelines and standard operational procedures for MIS Network
c)    Cross-sectoral cooperation
d)    Development network system
6)    Broadening the Responsibilities of an Environmental Health Laboratory
Environmental health laboratories (BTKLs) have been developed to respond to environmental
problems in 10 regions. The role and function of the BTKLs in Medan and Jakarta would be expanded
in PHP II to include communicable diseases control. The surveillance system would be developed so
- 55 -



the BTKL can provide information and rapid response.
Steps:
a)    Review the existing role and function of BTKLs in Medan and Jakarta
b)     Review capability of manpower, laboratory equipment and other facilities
c)    Development of guidelines and standard
d)    Provision of laboratory equipment
e)     Socialization of BTKL's new role
f)    Training of staff
g)    Develop networking
h)    Quality assurance
i)    Monitoring and evaluation
7) Development of a Center for Excellence
To support EWORS, the Sulianti Suroso Infectious Disease Hospital (RSPI-SS/IDH) in Jakarta
would be strengthened as a referral, research, and training facility. This hospital is an organic unit of
MOHSW attached to the DG for CDC.
Steps:
a)     Development of standards and guidelines for communicable diseases case management and clinical
and
public health laboratory examination
b)    Provision of communicable diseases case laboratory equipment
c)    Training to improve of professionalism of the personnel
d)    Establishment of a network system
e)    Improvement of clinical and epidemiological research quality
f)    Improvement of health services quality especially for infectious diseases
g)     Socialization of the new role for RSPI-SS
h)    Quality assurance
i)    Monitoring and evaluation
Project Component 7 - US$3.48 million
Component B.3: Assuring Equity in Service Provision - US$ 3.48 million
PHP II would help GOI carry out its distinctive responsibilities as regards the health of the poor. Project
resources would be used to fund National Health Grants to roughly 20 districts which are poor and satisfy
other criteria. This sub-component would pilot test an instrument which is seen as playing an important
role in attaining national health goals. Based on lessons from PHP I, MOHSW expects to ask MOF to
support a large scale grants program, drawing on national and international donor funding.
The National Health Grants would be managed by the Decentralization Unit and would help poor districts
(or groups of districts) to reorient their health systems and to implement cost-effective public health
programs, while protecting the poor from catastrophic illness by providing basic hospital services. Grants
could be used to finance expenditures on studies, seminars and/ or workshops and other activities which
enable district health systems to become more efficient and sensitive to the health needs of the poor.
MOHSW would solicit proposals from district health authorities, applying as individual districts or in
- 56 -



groups (e.g., provinces). Provision of grants would be guided by transparent eligibility criteria and
conditions. For example, access to funds would be restricted to the most vulnerable districts. To obtain
grants, district officials would prepare proposals describing the size and health needs of the poor population
and intended policy responses. Submissions would be judged by a designated proposal review team.
Suggested evaluation criteria include relevance of objectives, suitability of design and implementation
mechanisms, affordability and sustainability of what is proposed, and local capacity. Apart from the
grants themselves, PHP II would provide resources to support proposal preparation. Access to such funds
would be virtually automatic for districts deemed to be eligible. The district health authorities may work
collaboratively with academic or research institutions, NGOs and/ or professional organizations, in
developing the proposal and in implementing the projects. Eligible expenditures under this grants will be
limited to the following items: data collection and analysis, supplies and materials, travel costs, consultant
charges, services to assist in design and implementation of pilot activities, and dissemination of the
supported programs.
The districts would provide counterpart resources. Counterpart funds would be proportional to eaming
capacities, but the proposal would need to provide all relevant district budget information including
information on locally funded health allocations to the districts.
Proposals would be prepared according to the following format:
a.     Background
b.     Objectives
c.     Methodology
d.     Relevance to the overall poverty reduction goals.
e.     Expected benefits
f.     Performance indicators
g.     Cost estimates and budget.
h.     Time table for completion of activities
The following criteria would be used to evaluate each proposal:
a.     Clarity of objectives
b.     Relevance to overall goals and objectives.
c.     Appropriateness of methodology and feasibility of proposed design and implementation plan.
d.     Benefit to the poor.
e.     Reasonableness of costs estimates
f.     Competence and experience of proponents and implementing agency.
Proposals would be submitted to the MOHSW. The Minister through the Secretary General would ask the
Proposal Reviewer Team to ensure that they have met all the eligibility criteria. In case of proposals that
may have implications for departments other than MOHSW, the Secretary General may obtain written
comments and concurrence from all relevant departments and agencies.
Proposal preparation and review should be completed in the year before they are funded. Funds for
approved proposals would be channeled through the central development budget. A fifth of the grant would
be made available following acceptance of the proposal with release of the remaining 80% contingent on
acceptable progress reports and satisfactory execution of the proposal. If the Districts are not making
suitable progress, the Secretary General would condition funding until the problem has been effectively
addressed. The Secretary General assisted by the Proposal Reviewer Team would review all reports, and
may make such recommendations as may be necessary for revising any aspect of the proposal during its
implementation stage if he (or she) is convinced that such revisions would improve overall effectiveness and
efficacy of the proposal. All major revisions are subject to the approval of the Secretary General.
- 57 -



Finally, the Secretary General would review the overall progress of the Grants once a year, and may make
such suggestions as may be necessary regarding any amendments in the overall scope of the Grants
Supporting Activities.
Project Component 8 - US$0.06 million
Component B.4: Assessing Health Research Needs, Capacities, and Options - US$ 0.06 million
PHP H would support a broad assessment of health research requirements and options within a
decentralized system. Research needs would be evaluated first. The review team would then assess the
capacity, and current and possible roles and functions of National Institute of Health Research and
Development (NIHRD) in the new environment of health development. This would include reviewing the
working relationship of NIHRD with other main units of MOH, provincial and district government, other
research institutions, and recommending improvement and realignment of NIHRD to the new institutional
set-up. The team would then discuss the modalities and altematives available to improve the outflow and
use of high quality research findings. This 3 month exercise would be carried out by intemational and
domestic consultants as well as NIHRD staff. The team would be expected to elicit feedback on findings in
a number of seminars and workshops within MOHSW, and with the larger research community and donor
agency officials. A follow up plan of action would be included in the team's output
Project Component 9 - US$2.01 million
Component B.5: Strengthening Food and Drug Control - US$ 2.01 million
GOI has converted the former DG POM into an autonomous agency (Badan POM) reporting to the
President, under the coordination of MOHSW. PHP II would assist in transforming the new agency into a
professional unit whose operations were based on scientific, risk management principles. PBP II would
support strengthening the agency's capacity in respect of areas of interest and functions such as: assessing
and then enhancing the inspection systems which comprise core activities for the agency. This would
involve hiring a consultant team made up of international and domestic experts. The project would also
ftund an assessment on strengthening mechanisms to assure that drug producers and wholesale and retail
distributors are accountable to the public. The imperative of helping the agency evolve into a leaming
organization would also be supported by PHP II. A team of intemational and domestic experts would
assess needs and suggest and help implement an approach. As part of this component, some local and
overseas training would be financed.
Project Component 10 - US$1.79 million
Component B.6 Project Management (Central) - US$ 1.79 million
A coordinating unit for PHP II overall would be established at the central level. Funds would be allocated
to support consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops, project management training and
project supervision. During Phase 1, this unit would coordinate proposal preparation for the new Banten
province which includes preparation of a situation analysis and a detailed proposal covering specific
activities. Funds would be allocated to recruit consultants, and conduct workshops. Once Banten's
proposal is approved, funds for implementation would be channeled through the same mechanisms agreed
for the other two provinces. In addition to Managing Decentralization (Al), and Resource Mobilization
(A2), funds would be allocated to finance district specific proposals to be reviewed by Banten's TRT and
JHC.
- 58 -



For Banten, dates for the following Implementation Plan were agreed during appraisal:
(1)    a draft Situation Analysis to be received by February 1, 2002. This Situation Analysis is to
include a draft Social Assessment.
(2)    by February 15, 2002, draft TORs for the PCIU, DIUs, JHC, and TRT.
TORs for the respective units include individual terms of reference and an explanation of the lines of
command and communications for the positions of District Project Director (Head of District Bappeda or
District Regional Assistance III), District Executive Secretary (Head of District Health Office), Provincial
Project Director (Head of Provincial Bappeda), Deputy Provincial Project Director (Head of Provincial
Health Office), and Provincial Executive Secretary (to be appointed).
(3)    by April 15, 2002, a draft project proposal including: proposed health spending levels and
Allocations for each district by year for 2004-2006, planned funds channeling mechanisms, counterpart
funding allocations for 2002 and 2003, and a Indigenous People's Development Plan for the Baduy.
(4)    by February 15, 2002, a training plan by which procurement and financial staff within the DIUs,
and PCIU would acquire, and update on a regular basis, the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to
carry out their respective duties in financial and procurement management as required by Association/Bank
finance and procurement guidelines.
(5)    by April 15, 2002 staffing decisions and appointments to the PCIU, JHC, DIUs, and TRT,
together with the TORs and SKs for each Task Force along with the names of those designated to be as
Task Force leaders, and the terms of reference (TORs), the letter of establishment, and staffing decisions
and appointments to the Provincial Health Promotion Board (PHPB)
(6)    by June 30, 2002, a final proposal with a detailed work plan, procurement plan, and budget. Also
included in the package would be the 4 year health improvement plan for individual districts and their first
year proposal for Funds Allocations.
PHP Research Unit
This component would fund a research unit to evaluate project achievements. Evaluation would be based
on pre and post project assessment. Project achievements would be assessed according to performance
indicators agreed during project negotiations. These would include process as well as output/outcome
indicators. (The main indicators are outlined in Annex 1 of the PAD.) However, more specific benchmarks
would be expected to emerge, and these indicators would be mentioned in the technical proposals submitted
by the institutions expressing interest in the assignment.
The scope of work of the unit would include conducting: (a) baseline surveys, (b) yearly tracking studies
and (c) final surveys. Results of the baseline surveys would be made available to the implementing units at
the district and province to be used as inputs when preparing proposal for the district grants.
To avoid conflict of interest, the unit would be independent of the central government. Selection would be
conducted by the CPCU. The method would be Quality and Cost Based Selection. University-based
research units as well as private firms would be invited to submit expressions for interest. The contract
would cover the whole series of surveys (baseline, tracking and final).
- 59 -



Attachment 1 of Annex 2
Indonesia: Provincial Health Project
This Annex summarizes the management structure for project activities at the district, provincial, and
central level. In Phase 1, the first 18 months, the project would support the reform of existing institutional
arrangements to establish the capacity and structures necessary to provide health services in a decentralized
management environment during Phase 2. The mechanism which supports service provision in Phase 2 is
the District Funding Allocations.
Project Management Structure (See Attachment 2.C of Annex 6)
District level
I.    District Implementation Units, DIUs would be established prior to CreditiLoan Negotiations by
the District Bupatis. DIUs would be headed by the head of the District Bappeda or the District Regional
Assistant III and managed by an Executive Secretary in his/her capacity as head of the district health
office. That office is responsible for implementing district level activities in conformity with the plan
reviewed by the AssociationlBank at Appraisal for Phase I of the project (to December 2001), and
agreements reached during Negotiations. A draft Project Management Manual covering job descriptions,
procurement methods, financial management were reviewed prior to negotiations. The finalized Project
Management Manual would be reviewed and approved by the Association/Bank prior to effectiveness.
Training on the manual for all involved in the project would begin after effectiveness and be followed by
refresher training during project implementation.
2.     Starting in FY 2002 and for each subsequent fiscal year, a major task of the DIUs would be to
coordinate the development of a consolidated annual district health plans within the framework of a 4-year
"rolling plan". In both Phases of the project, the DIUs would function as the district level project
secretariats and handle administration, procurement, financing, disbursement, and the reporting of project
activities. The DIUs would include some existing government staff, and would consist of one procurement
officer, one financial officer and one planning and monitoring and evaluation officer.
3.    In Phase 2 (starting in FY 2003), proposals for District Funding Allocations would be based on the
annual health plans developed by the district and submitted by the head of the district health office after
endorsement by the Bupati. Proposals would be in a format specified in a Funding Allocation
Operational Manual, which would be established as a condition of disbursement for component A3. This
manual would detail eligible expenditures under the District Funding Allocations, the proposals procedure
and schedule, responsibilities for preparation and the review process including evaluation criteria,
contracting procedures, procurement and financial management, and reporting and monitoring
requirements.
4.     The DIUs would be responsible for coordinating contracting for sub-projects for agreed activities
under the District Funding Allocations within indicative 4-year budgets. Annual budget ceilings would be
determined by the Joint Health Councils based on criteria agreed by the Association/Bank.
5.     The DIUs would be responsible for procuring goods and services under the District Funding
Allocations by entering into sub-project contracts with eligible providers. The DIUs would handle the
invitation and evaluation of bids, or sub-contract the process to qualified procurement agents chosen
through a competitive process. Detailed procedures for each case would be specified in the Funding
Allocation Operational Manual. Regardless of size, contracting would be undertaken for civil wor-ks,
- 60 -



goods, services and consultants, using procurement procedures and standard bidding documents acceptable
to the Association/Bank.
Provincial Level
6.    A Joint Health Council, JHC, would be established by the respective Govemor in each
participating province. The JHC would be a standing committee, meeting a minimum of four times a year
as a forum for raising health issues and determining broad health policies for the province. The JHC would
comprise of Bupatis, members of civil society, and local health professionals. Members of the JHC who
were full-time civil servants would be funded by non-Association/Bank sources while non-government
members would be contracted on a fee for service basis under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association/Bank. The tasks of the JHC would include (i) oversight of system reform in the province
including the work of the Task Forces, (ii) review of proposals for District Funding Allocations, and (iii)
monitor implementation progress.
7.    A Technical Review Team, TRT, comprised of health professionals located in the provincial
health department, would review district proposals. In addition to the review function, the TRT in the
provincial health office (Dinas Kesehatan Propinsi) would provide support to the districts in the
development of proposals. The TRT would be reinforced on and as needed basis by health specialists
determined as necessary by the JHC to supplement the available skill set.
8.    The JHC acting on the advice of the TRT would award annual District Funding Allocations up to
the ceiling to be determnined by the JHCs according to criteria accepted by the Association/Bank. To ensure
funds were not underutilized and to act as an incentive to good proposal preparation and implementation,
funds would be reallocated to stronger performers when proposals for a lesser amount than the agreed
ceiling were presented, or when the review of a district proposal recommended not funding all proposed
activities, or recommended funding the proposed activities with a reduced budget. Detailed procedures for
reallocation will be contained in the Funding Allocation Operational ManuaL
9.    A Provincial Coordination Implementation Unit, PCIU would be established in each of the
participating provinces. This unit would be chaired by the head of the provincial Bappeda, with the head of
the provincial health office as Deputy Project Director. The PCIU would be supervised by a full-time
Executive Secretary with appropriate sector and management experience. The PCIU would employ two
procurement officers, one financial officer and one planning and monitoring and evaluation officer.
Training in procurement, finance and reporting procedures would be provided during the initial Phase of
project implementation. Annual Procurement Plans would be prepared under the guidance of the
Procurement Specialist. The PCIU would provide, for Association/Bank review, biannual consolidated
implementation, procurement and financial reports as specified in the Funding Allocations Operational
Manual
10.   The PCIU would coordinate the implementation of activities in which economies of scale and/or the
systemic nature of the activities indicated that greater efficiency and/or effectiveness would be achieved by
implementation at the provincial rather than district level.
1l.   A Provincial Health Promotion Board, PHPB, would be established by Governor's Decree in
each province. The provincial government's own health promotion activities would continue, using local
resources. As a joint public/NGO organization, PHPB would interact closely with NGOs. The PHPB
would have a budget supported by the project to solicit and appraise proposals from NGOs, to encourage
their partnership in the provincial health program. The PHPB would fund selected proposals under
- 61 -



conditions and procedures specified in the Project Management Manual.
Central Level
12.   A Central Project Coordination Unit, CPCU would be established in the MOHSW, Jakarta,
under the direction of the Secretary General, with the planning bureau chief serving as Deputy Project
Director. The CPCU would be managed by a full-time Executive Secretary with appropriate sector and
management experience. The CPCU would be staffed by hired procurement, finance and planning and
monitoring and evaluation specialists working full time for the project.
- 62 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH 11
Local -     Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million    US $million
A. Provincial Component                                     0.00         0.00          0.00
Al. Managing Decentralization                              15.52          1.50        17.02
A2. Resource Mobilization                                   2.04         0.00          2.04
A3. District Funding Allocations                          834.61         0.00        834.61
A4. Project Management                                      3.95         0.00          3.95
B. Central Component                                        0.00         0.00          0.00
B1. Institutional Development                               1.62         0.00          1.62
B2. Strengthening Communicable Disease Control              6.79         0.33          7.12
B3. Assuring Equity in Service Provision                   2.82          0.00          2.82
B4. Assessing Health Research Needs, Capacities, and Options  0.06       0.00          0.06
B5. Strengthening Food and Drug Control                     1.26         0.50          1.76
B6. Project Management                                      1.50         0.00          1.50
Total Baseline Cost                                       870.17         2.33        872.50
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                      23.14          0.15         23.29
Total Project Costs             893.31          2.48       895.79
Total Financing Required              893.31         2.48        895.79
Local   jForeign          Total
Project Cost By Categoy                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                        5.40           0.00          5.40
Works                                                        0.16           0.00          0.16
Consultants                                                  6.98           0.00          6.98
Training                                                     6.69           2.33          9.02
Workshop                                                     7.89           0.00          7.89
Miscellaneous including Grants                              48.46           0.00        48.46
Recurrent Costs                                            792.02           0.00        792.02
Contingencies                                               23.14           0.15         23.29
Other                                                        2.57           0.00          2.57
Total Project Costs    893.31          2.48        895.79
Total Financing Required     893.31          2.48        895.79
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 895.81 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 11.45%/of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 63 -



Annex 4
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH 11
Several aspects of PHP II are explored in this Annex on economic analysis. The point of departure in the
first section is the project's potential contribution to the strategy presented in the latest CAS. The next
section characterizes the project's potential economic benefits. The final section is concerned with the
sustainability of project-funded investments, and the fiscal implications for districts of higher health
spending.
(i) Decentralization: Risks and Policy Alternatives in the Health Sector
The CAS. The Bank Group's overriding goal in Indonesia, reaffirmed in the February 2001 CAS, is
reduction of poverty and vulnerability. Delivering better public services to the poor is one of three priority
areas seen as crucial to attaining the overall objective, with health viewed as important within the basket of
services needed by low income households. The CAS considers enhancing services for the poor, notably
those in health, as especially fonnidable while decentralization and other government reforms are being
implemented. Here, the CAS mentions policy directions which might lead to improved services. For
instance, clarifying public roles as functions are decentralized, and support for reform-minded subnational
governments are cited as worthwhile policy steps.
This section pursues the question posed in the CAS, i.e., what policy directions and steps will be needed to
protect and enhance health in current day Indonesia. The discussion covers the decentralization-related
challenges facing health, and the sector policy package, including the proposed project, which has taken
shape. The topics examined are the imperatives and constraints bearing on the health sector's policy
response to decentralization; and the advantages and risks associated with key policy components and with
the package overall.
Decentralization in brief. Law 22 on "Regional Govermment" and Law 25 conceming "the Fiscal Balance
Between the Central Govemment and the Regions" are the legislative underpinning for Indonesia's
decentralization initiative. These April 1999 statutes are part of a restructuring package which includes
new laws on the civil service, procurement by public agencies, the governance of elections, and the
functions of central ministries and agencies. Other framework documents include the Operational
Guidelines for Law 22 and Law 25; guidelines on the composition of regional administrations;
MENEGPAN instructions on the size and make-up of individual ministries; MOHARA decrees on the
accountabilities of Govemors and related matters; and various other ministerial, govemor-level, and Bupati
level decrees relating to the implementation of Laws 22 and 25. Together these measures are establishing a
system of over 350 largely autonomous district (and municipal) governments. Driving the process is the
statutory transfer through of untied block grants (DAUs) of a sizable share, 25%, of total central
govemment revenue, of which 90% is earmarked for districts and 10% for provinces. Local govemments
are also to receive specified proportions of the property tax (and greater retention by producing areas of
revenues from mineral wealth and fishing and forestry activities). To strengthen local own revenue sources
the Government revised Law 18 of 1997 on regional taxes and levies in Law 34 of 2000. Regional
govenmments will be allowed to obtain loans, with borrowing limited by a formula for total debt, subject to
Ministry of Finance (MOF) approval but without a central govemment guarantee for foreign loans.
Meanwhile, the restructuring of central ministries like MOHSW is proceeding, e.g., staff in regional offices
of MOHSW are being transferred to local government units.
- 64 -



Health sector opportunities and challenges
Decentralization provides a good entry point to improving Indonesia's health services. If handled well,
decentralization can lead to conditions in which providers have the incentives, skills, supervision, material
support, and discretionary authority needed to offer high quality services, and clients have the information,
financial means, and bargaining power required to elicit appropriate responses. Decentralization also
provides opening for MOHSW to carve out a new role and image while jettisoning impractical obligations.
However, experience elsewhere indicates that decentralization poses various risks for health.
Often mentioned in the literature are: deteriorating morale and staff opposition to job reassignment or
reinterpretation; loss of clarity as to responsibilities for different communicable disease activities; functions
delegated without adequate technical and managerial preparation leading to deterioration in the quality of
health planning, service delivery, and supervision; disruptions in information and reporting systems and
associated accountability and quality control arrangements; breakdown of staff deployment, transfer, and
other personnel mechanisms; less attention during planning to the needs and circumstances of the poor; and
less focus in service provision on the poor or on maintaining service quality.
As in several other countries, some of these adverse consequences may be observed shortly in Indonesia
because of two aspects of the ongoing decentralization process. First, there may well be funding
difficulties which impinge to a lesser or greater extent on every sector. Like other sectors, health faces
uncertainty and disruptions due to the transition to financing rules and arrangements which are not fully
elaborated and tested, or clearly grounded in principles of equity and fairness. One likely outcome is a
mismatch between funds (assignment of revenues) and spending requirements (expenditure authority).
That is, funding of minimum services may suffer because the equalization and DAU formulas do not factor
in health conditions and the central government lacks the remedial resources. Or there may not be
agreement on which health functions are to be carried out by different government levels, leading to erratic
channeling of money and low disbursements. And though there may be consensus on functions, health still
has to compete with other sectors in order to secure funds to carry out its agreed functions. Finally,
management and technical skills gaps in financing agencies may disrupt movement of funds for health
purposes.
Decentralization-related risks in Indonesia also arise out of technical factors in the health field.
Specifically, the "downsizing" of administrative units is likely to result in designs for key functions and
activities which are neither technically effective nor cost efficient. This is because district health officials
no longer have access routinely several key "inputs" organized previously through MOHSW. The sector
has been cut loose from sources of technical expertise and guidance, e.g., on the range and scale of
interventions overall, best practice in designing of individual initiatives, and quality assurance procedures.
And technical supervision and assessment at different stages are now in doubt. Moreover, the scale and
volume of health activities such as communicable disease control and health education, seem likely to
decline. This "downsizing" of the scope of activities has adverse implications for unit costs and program
viability and sustainability.
MOHSW's response. Concerned that essential services may erode, MOHSW has been in the forefront of
government agencies preparing for decentralization. This responsiveness reflects sectoral policy and
staffing changes during the 1 990s which enhanced the local grounding of health interventions. During
2000, MOHSW made extensive efforts to prepare for decentralization, using available policy tools. First,
through several official communications, MOHSW has made clear what it sees as the health
responsibilities which districts and provinces must assume respectively. A Ministerial circular (July 27,
2000) delineated 24 district-level health responsibilities. MOHSW also specified deconcentrated functions,
- 65 -



e.g., procuring essential drugs and sustaining a health information system, which should be conducted by
provinces in addition to the devolved responsibilities listed in the Operational Guidelines (PP 25) for Law
22. Finally, MOHSW defined its own functions through a Ministerial Decree (#130, 2000).
At the same time, MOHSW explored ways of ensuring that local government responsibilities would be
carried out. Various activities, i.e., workshops and dissemination of written and electronic materials,
informed local officials and politicians about the importance of good health, and sought their commitment.
MOHSW took parallel steps to define the content and thrust of the district level tasks set out in the July 27
circular. One of these was a formal meeting in Jakarta which concluded with the Bupatis and Mayors
present signing a compact committing their governments to maintain existing facilities, and support priority
programs such as nutrition improvement and disease control including immunization. Through the same
document, decision makers pledged that health would receive at least 15% of local government resources.
Missing instruments. In short, MOHSW took various steps to anticipate the January 1, 2001 start date
for the decentralization program. In the near term, the concern, besides shoring up local commitment to
health, remains to secure a "soft landing" for a ministry which is being restructured while absorbing staff
and functions from the former Ministry of Social Welfare. Policy makers recognize, of course, that the
measures adopted do not address medium term issues, e.g., post-transition funding; sustaining the health
work force, the facility network, and communicable disease control efforts; and consequences for the poor.
Moreover, health decision makers understand that consciousness raising and direct pressure have inherent
limitations. For one thing, other sectors are using similar tactics, suggesting that MOHSW will have to
restate its point of view fairly often. Even then, it is unclear how much of MOHSW's message would be
intemalized by local government authorities and for how long. Asking stakeholders repeatedly to reaffirm
their intentions as regards health would likely become expensive and time consuming for MOHSW and
annoying to district officials. Local decision makers would also be irritated by the implicit assumption that
districts have sufficient funds from their block grants (DAUs), and only lack commitment to allocate
adequate amounts to suitable health programs.
But in the wake of Laws 22 and 25, what powers and policy instrunents can decision makers tum to apart
from trying to raise awareness and motivate local authorities? Here the Operational Guidelines (PP25) for
Law 22 seem to point to an approach which complements the opinion shaping work already started.
Specifically, a clause in PP25 directs each central agency to develop "guidelines to determine standards of
minimum services in sectors wherein this is compulsory by the Regencies/Towns."
The intention, clearly, is to prevent Law 22 from undermining critical services.
MOHSW responded to this instruction in a thoughtful fashion. It identified activities, e.g., health facility
licensing and nutrition surveillance, for which specific minimum "standards" (SPM) need be defined, and
suggested appropriate indicators for each. But it left decisions about levels of individual standards,
achievement indicators, and related interventions to be worked out between Governors and district officials
in each province.
Despite this cautious approach, the SPM clause leaves MOHSW in a vulnerable position. This is seen in
the lack of attention to the potentially high costs of trying to implement SPM. The assumption in PP25
seems to be that DAU funding would be adequate to finance SPM-related outlays. But in the next 1-2
years, SPM- linked spending will be "crowded out" by an unavoidable obligation to use the DAU to cover
the salaries of transferred central staff. Looking ahead, some expect a MOHARA to issue a directive
which defines sector standards fornally and ties DAU allocations to SPM performance.
- 66 -



To dates, no such MOHARA instruction has been issued. This may be because such an approach would,
in effect, reintroduce budget earmarking, an unpopular step with local decision makers now arriving at their
own priorities. Moreover, this could cause local resentment and mistrust of MOHSW, as the "agent" of
SPM in health. To complicate MOHSW's prospects further, MOHARA and MOF may expect it to
oversee local government compliance with SPM "targets." MOHSW would then have to focus on
enforcement, i.e., "policing" standards, putting on hold the new role and activities it has defined for itself.
Policy tools for MOHSW's lead agency role. The SPM directive illustrates the predicament of health
policy making today in Indonesia. The ultimate goal remains that of raising health status, especially for
that of the poor, in part by achieving the adequate standards of service coverage and quality which are the
aim of the SPM clause. But as mentioned, MOHSW has arrived at a different view of its own functions
and tasks vis a vis sector objectives, including attaining SPM goals. Briefly (see Section B of this PAD),
these responsibilities are to develop and translate a sectoral vision into an effective agenda; analyze key
issues of health status and system perfonnance; promote equity in health financing, including ensuring
adequate funding of basic services at minimum standards for the poor and the public overall; improve
regulatory means of assuring the quality and effectiveness of health services and public health programs;
monitor and protect drug and food safety; and sustain effective surveillance and responses to communicable
disease trends
In tackling its new functions, MOHSW decision makers recognize that they can no longer rely on the
"command and control" powers used when they were at the heln of a centralized system. MOHSW has
tumed to altemative policies designed so it can function as the pivotal agency within a decentralized health
sector. These policy instruments, including the Decentralization Unit (DU), National Health Grants,
reformulated functions of specific DGs within MOHSW, and province focused-initiatives, are described in
Section C (and in Annex 2). The focus here is on how well these measures respond, as a package and
individually, to the decentralization risks and obligations, e.g., SPM, identified above. Also discussed are
the risks associated with these policy tools and mechanisms and mitigating factors which are expected to
operate.
Responding to funding and civil service adjustments. As discussed, decentralization driven financing and
civil service adjustments may disrupt health service provision. Within MOHSW, the DU would help
identify and coordinate responses to various decentralization-related "threats" to the health system. The DU
would operate eclectically, interacting both proactively and reactively with other ministries, units within
MOHSW itself, provinces and district authorities, NGOs, and other stakeholders, and addressing concems
and issues before or as they arise. For instance, with guidance from MOHSW's Personnel Bureau, the DU
may raise civil service matters with BAKN or individual provinces. And the DU could take up with MOF
various discrepancies between available funding and spending needs. These mismatches are due in part to
the DAU formula which calculates funding levels without reference to health conditions or the availability of
facilities in individual districts. The National Health Grants under the DU's coordination are a potential
means of redressing funding inequities and mismatches. The DU would be responsible for making the case
to MOF, Bappenas, and MOHARA that these grants be institutionalized as one of the special grants
(DAKs) envisaged in Law 25.
Regionally-focused health initiatives including PHP I, the ADB's Decentralized Health Services
investment, and the proposed project comprise another important mechanism for tackling financing and
civil service 'threats" to health. More specifically, the PHP approach responds to the challenges facing the
sector through complementary institutional and technical strategies. The Joint Health Councils (JHCs) are
the key to the institutional (i.e., political) strategy--they provide a means through which to raise and
respond to various issues and a vehicle for getting health wider attention and higher and more stable
- 67 -



funding at the district and province levels. For example, Lampung, one of the PHP I provinces, has
established steering and consultative committees within its JHC to strengthen advocacy efforts directed at
local officials. MOHSW, through the DU, can work with JHCs in several provinces as part of an effort to
build strong regional and national health lobbies.
Addressing technical and costs concerns.
Decentralization also jeopardizes the technical quality and the scale and cost effectiveness of health
interventions. The SPM clause in PP 25 represents a response to such risks. However, as discussed the
SPM instruction leaves open how adequate health standards and quality levels are to be attained and
protected. In this regard, one mechanisms MOHSW is tuming to is restructuring and reorienting the main
technical DGs. For instance, PHP II would support changes in the way communicable disease surveillance
and control are organized and managed. A major review of the role of the National Institute of Health
Research and Development would be funded as well, together with activities aimed at establish a
technically proficient National Agency for Drug and Food Control (POM).
What distinguishes the PHP approach is the attention given to addressing health service technical and scale
concems through joint efforts among districts. The intention is for districts, operating together as collective
entities, to upgrade and sustain key technical support activities. This would involve sharing costs by
pooling resources, e.g., use of medical and technical specialists and trainers, organizing joint
communicable disease control, quality assurance, and health education and advocacy. The JHCs provide a
means to organize such shared activities--the Task Forces will make recommnendations to JHCs on various
technical topics. But it is the Technical Review Teams (TRTs) which have the largest role in the PHP
technical strategy, through their reviews of district proposals and the feedback and guidance offered. These
arrangements are well suited to reach agreement on a program and spending comment to attain SPM--the
JHCs would provide a useful venue with the TRTs providing technical inputs.
Risks, mitigating factors and proposed approach.
In short, the policy tools which MOHSW is assembling have the potential to overcome much of the health
sector's vulnerability vis a vis decentralization. But there are constraints and risks attached to each of
these policy measures and to their effectiveness as a package. Salient risks and offsetting factors are
shown in Annex 4, Table 4.1. There are significant risks attached to each of the key instruments. But
there are counterbalancing factors and remedies available which are strong enough to justify support for
this proposed initiative.
- 68 -



Annex 4 Table 4.1: Risks, Offsetting Factors, and Remedies
Policy Instrument    Possible Concerns      Counter Balancing Factors     Specific
Remedies
1. Decentralization   Extensive/costly internal   Formal consensus achieved;   Association/Bank
Unit               debate on need for the   awareness of threats to     hands-on support
unit; unsatisfactory    MOHSW's role or even        and monitoring,
previous experiences with  existence; budget cuts;  and common
special units; likely staff  pressures from other   cause with other
opposition to aspects of    ministries, provinces and  donors; influence
decentralization;       districts, NGOs and so forth;   selection of staff.
difficulties in changing    strong donor interest and
work culture; a weak unit  support; respected proponents
chief would undermine    inside MOHSW
purpose.
2. Reorienting     Limited previous efforts   Laws 22 and 25 undermine  Close
CDC, NIHRD, and   not successful; staff    traditional DGs; province and  Association/Bank
POM                resistance likely;       district antipathy to traditional  monitoring;
uncertain leadership in    "central" behavior; sympathy,  conditionalities;
particular units; resistance  help, and pressure from DU;   donor support for
from non-participating  budget stringency, growing    approach.
DGs.                    comfort with new role.
3. National Health    Resistance from MOF,    Strong MOHSW support and   Close monitoring
Grants             MOHARA, Bappenas;    leadership; districts need      by Association/
limited capacity to    funds; ability to pilot test,  Bank and other
prepare proposals; grants  linkage to PHP           donors.
too small and hard to  framework/mechanisms;
manage; districts resist    donor support.
conditions.
4. PHP design      JHCs may be too passive   Good provincial and district   Association/Bank
features at province   or resisted by districts;    understanding and leadership;  approval and
and district levels    provincial and central  public pressure and impact of  monitoring of
leadership may not be   accountability measures;    key steps and
proactive enough;       MOHSW interest; improved   interaction with
pressures to replicate  public accountability       project leaders;
quickly and/or extend   mechanisms; participation of  technical support
scope of activities in each  NGOs in PHPBs and JHCs;   from
new province; TRTs may  flexibility in all aspects of  Association/Bank
not be skilled enough or   design; funding will limit rate  staff and
adeptly managed; too    of replication and broadening   consultants; work
little capacity building.    of scope; better functioning    closely with
MOHSW units can help; other other donors.
donor pressures.
- 69 -



ii) Project Costs and Benefits:
Project Costs
The project would increase spending for health in North Sumatera and West Java (Costs and benefits are
not estimated for Banten.) Total project costs are estimated to be Rp. 1,151 billion for North Sumatera and
Rp. 1,714 billion for West Java. These outlays consist of Bank resources along with counterpart funds of
which the largest portion comes from increases in the share of local resources (DAU+PAD+ST) allocated
for health. Over 94% of project spending takes place at the district level. These resources would be used
to fund prioritized, likely high impact, public health activities and health services for poor families. At
project start (2001), percapita spending in North Sumatera is estimated to be Rp. 19, 290, while in West
Java it is Rp. 20,050. North Sumatera has a lower starting point because the percentage of health budget
share is lower than that for West Java, i.e., 5.8% and 9.5% for North Sumatera and West Java
respectively. During the project, percapita spending in North Sumatera would increase faster than West
Java. This is mainly because at the outset, West Java's population size (34.5 million) and growth rate
(2.17%) are greater than those for North Sumatera (11.9 million and 1.59%). The per capita health
spending by the end of the project (2006) is estimated at Rp. 35,170 per year for West Java and Rp. 53,670
per year for North Sumatera. These numbers are derived by increasing the district health budget share
until it reaches 15% of the total district budget envelope by the end of the project, except for the 6 poorest
districts in North Sumatera, whose maximum share in 2006 would be 12%.
Project Benefits
What benefits would these outlays create? The main project contribution would be improved health status.
This would be achieved through i) better priority setting based on improved health information systems and
better surveillance; ii) improved access to health services by strengthened targeting of government subsidies
to poor families, and increased numbers of service delivery points and outreach services; iii) enhanced
quality overall as well as for specific health services, and iv) improved health behavior primarily through
the introduction of a health promotion board in each province. Reformns introduced through this project
would change the way health services are managed and delivered, leading to higher effectiveness and
efficiency.
However, available methods of valuing the outcomes as well as the costs of health investments are
imperfect, and typically leave out some individual and social benefits and costs. Because of data
limitations, only a modest exercise was possible, focusing on the impact of policy changes and expenditures
on a number of diseases currently causing high morbidity, disability, and mortality. A previous costing
exercise found that increasing spending to Rp. 42,000 per capita would made it possible to train more staff,
buy more drugs, contraceptives, vaccines, and insecticides; buy more diagnostic equipment; and to carry
out more surveillance or treatment follow up. This could lead to doubling of the numbers of cases
identified and treated for communicable diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, dengue, ARI, diarrhea or
STDs; reduced disease outbreaks and case fatality rates during outbreaks; more intensive preventative
services including 90% coverage for all inmmunization target groups, 100% vector or larva control at all
targeted villages; increased coverage of micronutrient distribution to prevent deficiencies; and 85%
coverage of matemal health care to prevent pregnancy complications.
Currently, the coverage of basic public health services is still well below requirements. As mentioned, the
number of communicable disease cases currently identified and treated represents a half or less of those
actually infected. Meanwhile, coverage of various public health measures is far from satisfactory and may
be falling for some health concems. For example, in 1999 the percentage of children with full basic
- 70 -



immunization in North Sumatera was 97% and in West Java was around 87%. The percentage of pregnant
women with twice Tetanus Toxoid vaccination on the same year was 81 % for North Sumatera and 84% for
West Java. Vitamin A distribution to 1-4 year old children dropped from 77% in 1998 to 58% in 1999. In
North Sumatera, the percentages were 83% and 67% for 1998 and 1999 consecutively. Roughly 81% of
pregnant women received ante natal care 4 times in North Sumatera in 1999, while in West Java the figure
for the same year was 73%. Increased health spending in both provinces during the project is expected to
improve the coverage of prioritized public health services.
Estimates of healthy life years lost from all causes per thousand people are derived from the 1993 World
Development Report. The Other Asia and Islands model is applied to North Sumatera and West Java.
Table 4.2: Distribution of Healthy Life year Lost by Cause and Demographic region
Healthy Life Year Lost per 1.000 Population
Causes                        Other Asia and        OECD Countries
Islands
Communicable diseases
Tuberculosis                                          13                     *
Sexually Transmitted Diseases including HIV           4                      4
Diarrhea                                              22                     *
Vaccine preventable childhood infections              12                     *
Malaria                                               4                      *
Worm infections                                       9                      *
Respiratory infections                                29                     3
Matemal causes                                        7                      1
Perinatal causes                                      19                     3
Non Communicable Diseases                             57                    62
Injuries                                              14                     9
Other diseases                                        70                    36
Total                                                 260                    118
*less than I healthy life year lost per 1000 population
OECD countries have the world's best outcomes, i.e., the lowest healthy life years lost thanks to higher
levels and quality of services, and better nutrition, water and sanitation, education and so forth. If the total
healthy life years lost in the two provinces is compared to that of OECD countries, the gap is 142 (table
4.2). According to one widely used rule of thumb, health services contribute roughly 20% of health status
improvement, while the impact of behavior change is approximately 35% (Henrik Blum). So the impact of
health services would be about 28 healthy life years, while the impact of health promotion interventions
would be 50 healthy life years per thousand population. As mentioned previously, project benefits would
be derived mainly from improved health services and health promotion, and as such the project impact
would be 78 healthy life years per thousand population.
The Minimum Benefit Scenario
Drawing on the above, project benefits were estimated on the basis of different scenarios and assumptions.
Improved access and improved quality of services are predicted to increase use by 10%, and the impact
would be a 2% reduction in the gap between the project areas and OECD countries. Improved quality of
- 71 -



specific services with high epidemiological impact is expected to reduce the gap by 5%, while improved
quality of general services in the facilities would close the gap by 2.5%. Introduction of health promotion
boards and enhanced health promotion activities would reduce the gap by 8%.
However, these predicted impacts may not be achieved--technical and institutional factors which may
reduce and/or delay the flow of health benefits and cost savings. For instance, improvements in the
availability of providers and the quality of services may be postponed or curtailed due to delays, formal and
informal, in completing necessary institutional changes. Indifferent or hostile staff attitudes or technical
absorption limitations may have the same result, as may unexpected difficulties in conveying health
messages persuasively. Similarly, staff opposition may cause downsizing decisions to be delayed or scaled
back.
What then would be the level of benefits, i.e., the performance pattern and results which would just be
enough to justify these health expenditures? In terms of the above framework, this minimum benefit
scenario involves achieving only 25% of the coverage and other gains assumed in the case presented in the
text, i.e., improved access and improved quality of services are predicted to increase use by only 2.5% and
the impact would be less than 1% reduction in the gap between the project areas and OECD countries. If
there is only minimum improvement of quality of specific services with high epidemiological impact, the
gap would be reduced by only 1.3%. Similarly, minimum improvement of quality of general services in the
facilities would only close the gap by less than 1%. Slow adoption of health promotion boards and other
health promotion activities would reduce the gap by only 2%. This scenario then poses a rigorous test.
The total annual gain in healthy life years would be 53,372 for North Sumatra and 117,731 for West Java.
The per capita income in each province (Rp. 5 million in North Sumatera and Rp. 3.8 million in West Java)
is used to obtain the monetary value (Rp. 267 billion and Rp. 447 billion respectively) of these gains.
These unfavorable case gains translate into benefit cost ratios of 1.7 for North Sumatera and 1.9 for West
Java. The results stand even when an interest rate of 3% is introduced, these ratios amount to 1.3 for
North Sumatera and 1.5 for West Java.
The Optimistic Benefit Scenario
Fortunately, the project design includes features intended to prevent the less beneficial scenario from
occurring. Phase I is a capacity building period in which task forces would conduct assessments and
develop recommendations to improve health management as well as service delivery policies. The
districts/cities would be given ample opportunities to pilot test various approaches/options and decide on
the prefered approach expected to yield the best outcomes, while the annual proposal preparation and
review process would focus resources on key problems. The independent research unit to be established at
the central level, would also provide feedback to the districts and cities on impact of new interventions and
policies. This can be used by the decision makers to refine the approaches. Some credit conditions are also
introduced to safeguard adoption of some project features by the two provinces. This includes the setting
up and staff appointment of health promotion boards as condition for effectiveness. Other mechanisms are
the use of the Project Management Manual and the Funding Allocation Operational Manual to guide
project implementation, and the periodic technical audit to ensure that approaches adopted by the
districts/cities are technically acceptable.
In addition, for North Sumatera, larger per capita health spending (Rp. 53,670 by 2006) would allow a
wider range of services aside from basic public health care to be covered. These may include improved
hospital care for non communicable diseases. The wider scope of service in this province is estimated to
reduce the gap with OECD countries by 5%. The 6 poorest districts in North Sumatera have low access to
health services compared to the other districts in the project. It is expected that for these 6 districts, the
- 72 -



increase service use due to improved access and service quality would be 20% instead of 10%, and the
impact would be 4% reduction in the gap compared to 2% reduction in the other districts.
Under these more optimistic assumptions the total annual gain in healthy life years will be 162,435 for
North Sumatera and 470,925 for West Java. The value of healthy life years gained in one year from the
completed project would be Rp. 1,067.4 billion in North Sumatera, and Rp. 1,789 billion in West Java.
For both provinces, it is assumed that project benefits will be negligible in the first year of the project,
rising to 10%, 30%, 50%, 75% in the second, third, fourth and fifth years respectively, and then remaining
at 100% through a ten year time horizon after project completion. Based on these assumptions, the
monetary value of project benefit for North Sumatera will be Rp. 7,919 billion, yielding a benefit cost ratio
of 6.9 (4.9 with an interest rate of 3%) for project costs of Rp. 1,151 billion.
For West Java, the monetary value of the benefits up to 10 years after project closes would be Rp. 13,276
billion. With outlays of Rp. 1,714 billion, the benefit cost ratio would be 7.7. If a 3% interest rate were to
be built into the costs, the ratio would be 5.6.
Table 4.3: Sensitivity Analysis Using 75%, 50%, and 25% Benefit Flows
North Sumatera                   West Java
Project Impact          75%       50%       25%      75%       50%        25%
Project Cost           1,151      1,151    1,151     1,714     1,714      1,714
Project Benefit        5,939      3,959    1,980    9,957     6,638      3,319
Benefit/Cost Ratio      5.2        3.4      1.7       5.8       3.9        1.9
(iii) Spending and Financing at the Province and District Levels
The results discussed above suggest that higher public expenditures in Indonesia, appropriately allocated,
could yield substantial health benefits. But the discussion did not indicate by how much district spending
should rise during the next five years or over a longer period, and to what extent increased public outlays
should be extemally financed, e.g., via an IDA Credit or other arrangements which involve repayment
obligations.
These questions--what level of increased health spending districts (and municipalities) should commit
themselves to, how to allocate such higher outlays, and to what extent to rely on extemal resources--were
not pertinent before Laws 22 and 25 came into effect. The decentralized era has now begun. But these
questions are not easily addressed because of a lack of full consensus as to what sort of spending
obligations are being shifted to the country's districts and municipalities.
The need to fine-tune the new financing arrangements and to arrive at an acceptable division of spending
responsibilities suggests it may be prudent to delay, for up to a year or more, any detailed focus on
resource allocations to and within a key sector such as health. However, a more compelling case can be
made to tackle health spending, systematically and deliberately, during this first year of decentralization.
Low average spending. One reason to put health on the near term agenda is to ensure that this sector's
features and needs are kept in view as broader procedural and allocative decisions are made and precedents
- 73 -



are set in the new decentralized setting. Local assemblies are not accustomed to spending much on
health-in 17 of 22 West Java districts, the sector accounted for 6% or less of locally determnined
development spending in 1998; this share fell during pre-crisis 1994//95-1997198 in over half the districts.
And some Bupatis as well as local legislators may still expect or hope that health funding will continue to
arrive from Jakarta. It is best then to start the required learning and feedback process promptly.
But the overriding reason to avoid delay in addressing health is the status of the sector itself. Government
efforts, while chronically underfinanced relative to the chosen service design, achieved some real gains in
the decade up to 1997. But outlays have been kept under tight constraints since the economic crisis began.
Real per capita public spending fell by 6% in per capita terms in 1997/98 and then remained virtually
unchanged while shifting in terms of the activities funded away from primary care. (Please see forthcoming
Watching Brief.) At the province level and below, the picture is generally even more alarming. For
instance, per capita spending in West Java (including Banten) has long been well below the average for
Indonesia as a whole-in 1999/2000, the figures were Rp. 13,400 and Rp. 39,800 per person respectively
(which translate at current prices to less than US$2 per capita for West Java and USS3 or so per capita for
the country overall). These figures need to be corrected for differential access to donor assistance funds. When
such resources are excluded the contrast is sharper, i.e., per capita spending of Rp. 12,275 in West Java vs. Rp.
28,775 for Indonesia overall in 1999/2000. Per capita outlays Rp. 23,900 in North Sumatera exceeded those
in West Java (and also Lampung at Rp. 20,300 but were much lower than levels in other provinces, e.g.,
Yogyakarta at Rp.40,300 and for the country overall.
And per capita public outlays appear to have been and remain much below average figures in many
districts in the two provinces. For example, researchers from Padjadjaran University found that per capita
government health spending varied over ten fold in 1998/99 between Bandung city and Garut district.
Modest initial spending levels. West Java, Banten, and North Sumatera need to respond then to spending
patterns which are low both internationally and relative to levels achieved in the rest of the country.
Because of information gaps and inconsistencies, pre-project district spending levels were derived
somewhat differently for West Java and North Sumatera. (West Java data had to be adjusted in this exercise
because of apparent anomalies, e.g., Bandung city's high average outlays, which probably reflect funding of
facilities mandated to provide services to the entire province.) For West Java, total province expenditures for
1998/99 (expressed in 2001 prices) were derived from district and province-level data by the
Padjadjaran-teain, with the elements included seen as having some relevance for West Java residents. This
figure was juxtaposed with estimated total district level revenues. Three components-DAU, PAD, and the
shared revenues (ST)-were included in the latter figure for West Java. The resulting 9.5% average health
share was then applied to estimates of local revenues district by district, yielding expected spending levels
in 2001 (Table 4.4a, column 5).
- 74 -



Table 4.4a: Expected Spending Level and Percapita Spending in West Java
WEST JAVA
Expected       Percapita  Percapita
DISTRICTS/CITIES           DAU                PAD                 ST              Spending       Spending  Spending
(2001)             (2001)             (2001)          Level (2001)     (2001)   (2007)
(1)                (2)                 (3)               (4)                (5)            (6)         (7)
KotaBandung             341,620,000,000     32,133,146,825     38,399,522,000    39,154,503,538      15,067      26,714
Kabupaten Bandung       734,070,000,000     65,542,652,000     30,830,000,000    78,892,051,940      21,444      43,093
KabupatenBogor          479,570,000,000     70,877,648,000     43,608,338,000    56,435,318,670      11,162      19,632
Kota Bogor              219,650,000,000     10,166,754,000     13,831,608,000    23,146,594,390      33,895      59,835
Kota Sukabumi            81,300,000,000      8,729,448,000      3,745,044,000     8,908,576,740      36,290      64,460
Kota Depok              102,780,000,000     28,161,166,000     42,088,481,000    16,437,816,465      14,050      25,164
Kota Cirebon             86,730,000,000     18,577,238,000      5,510,497,000    10,527,684,825      37,807      67,753
Kabupaten Kuningan      200,620,000,000      5,626,000,000      7,285,013,000    20,285,446,235      20,613      36,321
Kabupaten Majalengka    206,300,000,000     12,000,000,000      6,926,925,000    21,396,557,875      18,622      32,920
Kabupaten Purwakarta    123,950,000,000     24,013,162,000     12,259,664,000    15,221,168,470      23,136      41,373
Kabupaten Garut         370,110,000,000     11,510,812,000     10,592,004,000    37,260,217,520      18,772      33,089
Kabupaten Ciamis        307,370,000,000     23,966,140,048      9,387,981,000    32,368,791,500      19,447      34,447
Kabupaten Tasikmalaya    382,120,000,000    12,000,000,000      8,383,899,000    38,237,870,405      19,025      33,536
Kabupaten Sumedang      186,200,000,000     25,466,658,000      7,162,599,000    20,788,779,415      22,419      39,932
KotaBekasi              194,440,000,000     41,855,582,000     13,000,000,000    23,683,080,290      14,579      26,128
Kabupaten Sukaburni     302,050,000,000     15,379,888,000     15,692,178,000    31,646,596,270      14,745      26,043
Kabupaten Cirebon       296,180,000,000     15,105,940,000     13,142,359,000    30,820,688,405      15,879      28,047
Kabupaten Karawang      219,930,000,000     32,133,146,825     27,523,818,000    26,560,761,658      15,414      27,451
Kabupaten Cianjur       296,110,000,000     32,908,384,820     15,699,934,000    32,748,240,288      17,166      30,499
Kabupaten Indramayu     219,650,000,000     10,166,754,000     13,831,608,000    23,146,594,390      14,179      25,030
Kabupaten Bekasi        198,610,000,000     82,000,000,000     27,138,584,000    29,236,115,480      16,459      29,842
Kabupaten Subang        232,670,000,000     14,614,219,133     14,934,541,000    24,910,782,213      19,124      33,817
For North Sumatera, health outlays were estimated from data for the province as a whole for 1999/2000.
The health share, 9.5%, derived in this way was then used to calculate expected district specific, per capita
spending for 2000 (Table 4.4b, column 6).
- 75 -



Table 4.4b: Expected Spending Level and Percapita Spending in North Sumatera
NORTH SUMATERA
Expected          Percapita    Percapita
DISTRICTS/CITIES           DAU                  PAD                 ST          Spending           Spending    Spending
(2001)              (2001)             (2001)       Level (2001)          (2001)   (2007)
(1)                  (2)                 (3)                 (4)                (5)            (6)         (7)
Kodya Medan                266,810,000,000     45,600,000,000      30,953,753,000     32,619,556,535     15,592      28,793
Kab. Labuhan Batu          173,630,000,000      6,100,000,000      22,668,607,000     19,227,8675665     20,876      38,079
Kodya Pematang Siantar      95,200,000,000      8,500,000,000       4,457,698,000     10,274,981,310     41,112      75,430
KodyaBinjai                114,600,000,000      3,600,000,000       4,495,523,000     11,656,074,685     51,328      93,617
KodyaTebingTinggi           70,660,000,000      3,000,000,000       4,082,473.000     7,385,534,935      52,096      95,123
Kab. Asahan                206,140,000,000      8,500,000,000      20,078,000,000    22,298,210,000      22,161      40,454
Kab. Deli Serdang          335,180,000,000     62,000,000,000      24,314,860,000     40,042,011,700     21,511      39,791
Kab. Simalungun            260,300,000,000     12,000,000,000      20,218,402,000     27,789,248,190     30,337      55,411
Kab. Tanah Karo             92,490,000,000      4,000,000,000       8,072,861,000      9,933,471,795     33,193      60,605
Kab. Tapanuli Selatan      226,000,000,000      2,600,000,000       6,224,389,500     22,308,317,003     28,568      51,990
Kab. Langkat               200,700,000,000      7,000,000,000      19,991,987,000     21,630,738,765     23,191      42,306
Kab. Sibolga                40,570,000,000      1,700,000,000       3,845,415,000      4,380,964,425     52,071      95,058
KodyaTanjung Balai          46,400,000,000      3,200,000,000       4,576,558,000      5,146,773,010     42,059      76,986
Kab. Nias                  191,400,000,000      2,307,482,000       5,180,253,000     18,894,334,825     28,620      52,088
Kab. MandailingNatal       132,040,000,000      2,600,000,000       6,224,389,500     13,382,117,003     29,245      53,271
Kab. Tapanuli Utara        178,420,000,000      2,600,000,000       5,704,872,000     17,738,862,840     22,972      41,821
Kab. Tapanuli Tengah       105,450,000,000      2,300,000,000       2,300,000,000     10,454,750,000     39,888      72,408
Kab. Toba Samosir          119,470,000,000      3,000,000,000       5,704,872,000     12,164,824,385     19,323      35,218
Kab. Dairi                 102,970,000,000      1,900,000,000       5,580,783,000     10,492,824,385     33,737      61,443
Notional spending goals. These initial per capita figures are quite low. But at what level and in what
allocation patterns do per capita outlays begin to appear reasonable and adequate? Reference here to other
country or Indonesia-wide averages is not useful particularly for policy formulation. Fortunately, the
health development literature offers some clues. For example, the 1993 WDR concluded that essential set
of interventions costing US$10-12 would do the job. Adapting this approach, the per capita costs in
Indonesia of providing different packages were estimated and compared (See Report No. 2131 8-IND).
Several were found to be desirable but unsustainable financially and containing elements which were not
indispensable medically.
One set of initiatives emerged though as minimally adequate in health terms and likely to be manageable
budgetarily. This recommended package consists of various interventions aimed at the population overall
as well as some out-patient curative services for the poor estimated to account for 20% of households. The
services directed at the population at large are mainly for preventive health purposes (Table 4.5). This very
basic set of measures is estimated to cost Rp. 42,000 per capita to deliver.   This package does not include
in-patient care for the poor in hospital or environmental health interventions and other services which
MOHSW has long regarded as essential. Including these items would add roughly Rp. 10,000 to the costs
of the 20% package. It is worth mentioning another cluster of services which includes some in-patient care
for the poor and other desirable elements (please see Table 4.6 for details). This alternative package can
be delivered for Rp.42,076 per capita.
- 76 -



Table 4.5: Recommended Package of Health Services and Curative Care for Poor Individuals
Program                   Services Provided                     Coverage                 Totalper district
(no; 600.000)
EPI                       Basic Immunization                    90% of infants               4,282,279,351
Hepatitis vaccination                90% of infants
Pregnant women vaccination           90% of pregnant women
Elementary School (Grade 1)           100% of students (Gr 1)
Elementary School (Grade VI)          100% of students (Gr 2-6)
Lung Tuberculosis         case finding                          70/100,000 pop                 115,948,591
cure rate                             91%
curative care for 20% poor
Malaria                   case finding                          300/100,000 pop                334,442,104
curative care for 20% poor
larva control                         100% of targeted vill.
Mosquito control                      100% of targeted vill
Dengue                    case finding                           o/lo00,000 pop              2,953,904,274
curative care for 20% poor
Fogging                              50% of target
Abatisasi                             10% of target
Enviromnent manipulation              10% of target
Diarrhea                  case finding                          28/1,000 pop                  1,050,185,998
curative care for 20%/o poor
ARI                       case finding                          11/1,000 pop                   687,813,851
curative care for 20% poor
STD                       case finding                          12/1,000 pop                   233,939,381
curative care for 20% poor
CURATIVE CARE             basic services to the poor            20% of population             1,113,856,683
MCH                       K4                                    85% of pregnant women        2,759,339,727
birth delivery by health staff        80% of pregnant women
post partum care                      80% of neonates
NUTRITION                                                                                     1,888,814,976
-Iron                     Pregnant women coverage               80%
child coverage                        100%
-Vitamin A                child coverage                        80%
Lactating mother coverage             100%
-Iodine                   iodine capsule coverage               100%
salt monitoring coverage              100% of schools
School Health             Deworming                             100%                           353,071,552
Student screening                     100%
P1-N                      Coverage of home visit                100%                         2,505,518,244
FAMILY PLANNING           Active participants                   60%                          2,326,362,506
Contraceptives for poor eligible couples
WATER & SANITATION                                                                             335,315,403
iMCI                      Sick Children (0-4)                   80%                          3,772,445,850
TOTAL                                                                                       24,713,238,492
PER CAPITA                                                                                           41189
Note: - no inpatient
- inefficency is controlled
- 77 -



Table 4.6 Basic Package 2--Costs of Components
Per capita public                        15,468
Per capita special                       18,563
Total per cap non poor                   34,032
Poverty total per cap                    74,252
Per Capita                              42,076
Povertv Curative ner can                40 221
In short, somewhat different approaches arrived at similar findings. For roughly Rp.42,000 per person, a
scaled-down set of health services can be provided in Indonesia which appears to be adequate health-wise
from the vantage points of the general public and the poor. But anticipated initial spending in 17 of the 41
districts of North Sumatra and West Java is in the Rp.14,000-20,000 per capita range. What approach
would be relied on in the proposed project to attain or draw near to spending at designated levels, e.g.,
42,000, on appropriate service packages?
The spending vs. budget share trade-off. In principle, the Rp. 42,000 per person target can be reached
through project-financed increases in development spending. However, the resulting investment would be
unrealistically large, e.g., roughly US$ 98.7 million. The other unacceptable feature of such an approach is
the sharp drop in spending which would take place when the project ended. Take Tapanuli Utara district in
North Sumatera as an exarnple. Starting with a pre-project per capita spending level of Rp.22,972, outlays
would rise through this hypothetical project to Rp. 42,000 by 2006 interval, and then fall to Rp. 26,487 in
2007. Spending in the post-project period is assumed in this scenario to reflect the low initial budget share,
9.5%, and continuing population growth, but also, reasonable growth rates for local resources.
These outcomes, i.e., an impractically large project size and a sharp drop in spending in 2007, can be
avoided through appropriate policies and allocation of project resources. First, local government spending
would need to rise during implementation in order to sustain higher post-project outlays. MOHSW
recommended that health account for at least 15% of local government spending. This figure is taken as
the standard end-of-project budget share when deriving Bank funding levels.
These assumed budget shares would be used to calculate the sustainable per capita outlays by district for
2007 (Table 4.4a and 4.4b, column 7). These figures, which generally cluster in the Rp. 35,000 - 60,000
interval for North Sumatera and in the Rp. 25,000-35,000 range for West Java, depend, of course, on local
health shares, as well as the growth rates for population and revenues locally. (These post project per
capita figures are sustainable in the sense that they are not affected, at least during a possible 10 year grace
period, by any repayment obligations.) Meanwhile, project resources can be allocated to raise per capita
spending as soon as feasible during implementation to within striking distance of the post-project spending
target. In the example of North Sumatera's Tapanuli Utara district, the sustainable spending level is Rp.
41,737 compared with per capita outlays of Rp. 22,972 at project start. With 80% of project funds to be
spent in the 2002-2005 interval, outlays per capita would rise to Rp. 31,101 in 2005, within reach of
expected post project spending levels.
Through this approach, actual spending per capita is expected to more than double in most North Sumatera
districts, and most districts reach or draw reasonably close to the 42,000 standard (Table 4.4b). For West
Java (Table 4.4a), the spending increases are mostly in the 60-80% range, but in over a third of the districts
the 2007 figure does not reach Rp. 30,000 per capita despite the increase in the health share. This outcome
would be due to the generally low DAU allocations, relative to their population numbers, which most West
Java districts have received. One remedy might be to borrow additional amounts for a longer period. From
- 78 -



the loan repayment perspective, this would not present great problems-- the burden on district budgets
(assuming IDA tenns) appears to be very modest (Tables 4.7a and 4.7b). However, there would still be the
post-loan risk of a drop in spending unless the health share rose to 20% or higher. This would fi rther
heighten inter-sector competition for funds.
Altematively, an intra-province solutions might be worked out involving special health taxes
cross-subsidies between well off and poor areas. But this would present political hurdles in large and
hetereogeneous provinces. In reality, a province/district-focused framework cannot provide a solution to
every unacceptable health financing outcome. Ways have to be found to raise DAUs and to inject
resources through other channels. It is at this point that the project's provincial and central components
intersect. The Decentralization Unit in MOHSW would need to press the case for a linkage between DAUs
and health conditions and service access. Meanwhile, National Health Grants could be employed to
subsidize the most vulnerable districts.
Table 4.7a: Credit Repayment (Assuming IDA terms)
Credit Repayment Budget Envelope    Ratio of Credit
District/City         (Rp. Mn)          (Rp. Mn)      Repavment/Budzet
2011             2011           Envelope 2011
Nias District                  717             295,119             0.24%
Mandailing Natal District      241             209,321             0.12%
Tapanuli Utara District        375             277,206             0.14%
Tapanuli Tengah District       141             163,615             0.09%
Toba Samosir District          270             190,662             0.14%
Dairi District                 209             164,084             0.13%
Deli Serdang District          747             643,173             0.12%
Simalungun District            257             436,726             0.06%
Tanah Karo District            130             156,021             0.08%
Tapanuli Selatan District      256             348,405             0.07%
Langkat District               502             339,214             0.15%
Sibolga District               114              68,790             0.17%
TanjungBalaicity               115              81,188             0.14%
Medan City                     1,211           522,426             0.23%
Labuhan Batu District          339             301,494             0.11%
Pematang Siantar City          115             162,740             0.07%
Bunjai City                    116             182,738             0.06%
Tebing Tinggi City             115             116,010             0.10%
Asahan District                290             350.080             0.08%/
- 79 -



Table 4.7b: Credit Repayment (Assuming IDA terms)
CreditRepayment  BudgetEnvelope    Ratio of Credit
District/City        (Rp. Mn)          (Rp. Mn)       Repayment/Budget
2011             2011          Envelope 2011
Bandung City                   541             620,067            0.09%
Bandung District               550            1,249,616           0.04%
Bogor District                1,171           901,363             0.13%
Bogor City                     105            363,817             0.03%
Sukabumi City                  93              141,521            0.07%
Depok City                     299             190,771            0.16%
Cirebon City                   113             169,807            0.07%
Kuningan District              457            317,826             0.14%
MajalengkaDistrict             571            337,118             0.17%
Purwakarta District            321            244,627             0.13%
Garut District                 789             584,146            0.14%
Ciamis District                863            511,799             0.17%
Tasikmalaya District           745             599,531            0.12%
Sumedang District              335            331,831             0.10%
Bekasi City                    511            382,019             0.13%
Sukabumi District             1,095           497,879             0.22%
Cirebon District               914            484,925             0.19%
Karawang District              971            423,838             0.23%
Cianjur District               720             520,489            0.14%
Indramayu District             735            363,817             0.20%
Bekasi District                866            481,013             0.18%
Subane District                613            392.687             0.16%
- 80 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Yeare4     Year 5     Year 6 1  Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           3.2       14.8       26.2       26.2      21.9       10.7       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.3       0.6      143.6      193.2      215.8     239.5       0.0
Total Project Costs          3.5       15.4      169.8      219.4     237.7      250.2       0.0
Total Financing              3.5       15.4      169.8      219.4     237.7      250.2       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   3.0      14.3       25.6       26.3       22.2      11.2       0.0
Government                 0.4       1.1      144.1      193.1      215.4    239.0        0.0
Central                0.1        0.3        0.4        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.0
Provincial             0.3        0.8      143.7      193.0     215.3    238.9         0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     3.4       15.4      169.7      219.4     237.6    250.2         0.0
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
Year 1    YearI2     Year 3             | Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 81 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH 11
Procurement
1. Procurement of works and goods will follow the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", January 1995 edition, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Standard Bidding Documents (including Standard Prequalification and Bid Evaluation Documents), which
may be updated from time to time, will be used for all Association financed procurement.
2. Selection of Consultants will follow the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers", January 1997 edition, revised September 1997 and January 1999, and "Standard
Request for Proposals for Selection of Consultants", July 1997 edition, revised April 1998 and July 1999.
3. A Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (PCAR) was conducted for the project and is available on
project file. This covered legal issues, project cycle management, organization and functions, support and
control systems, record keeping, staffing, the general procurement environment, and overall risk assessment
in accordance with the instructions issued by OCSPR.
4. The assessment has rated the proposed project's procurement risk as "high " for the following reasons:
(i) there is limited experience of the provinces and no experience of the districts with the World Bank
financed projects, (ii) there are inconsistencies between the new Keppres 18/2000 and the World Bank's
guidelines, which include restrictive bidding, inadequate advertising, no post qualification, bracketing, and
automatic rebidding if the number of responsive bidders is less than three or above the budget allocation,
and, (iii) the general procurement environment is weak and collusive practices have been found in several
contracts.
5. The following actions to mitigate high risk are included in the action plan:
Capacity enhancement by adding capacity
3   Establishment of CPCU, PCIU and DIU organizations including appointment of a
qualified procurement specialist at the central level and appointment of procurement
officers at provincial and districts levels.
*   A firm will be hired by the borrower to conduct annual procurement reviews for the entire project.
Suggestions on the TORs agreed are attached.
Procurement Training
*   Procurement training will be provided by a firm as part of the project management training.
*   Procurement training will also be provided by Bank staff including training during project launch
work shop and during supervision.
Enhanced planning and controlling mechanisms
*   The draft procurement plan will be finalized during appraisal and an updated procurement plan will be
required for each new fiscal year before disbursements can be initiated.
- 82 -



*  Modifications required for NCB procedures to be acceptable are more comprehensive and are
included in the loan/credit agreement.
*   The following points will be included in the minutes of negotiations: remedies for delays in award of
contracts beyond eight weeks after expiry of bid validity; guidance on newspapers which would meet
the nationwide advertising requirements; reminder to send bid opening records to the Bank for all prior
review cases; and agree on procurement service standards including remedies if standards are not met.
*   The thresholds for prior review have been set at lower than the usual levels.
*  The threshold for National Shopping has been reduced.
*   Bidding documents and RFPs for procurement actions during the first year will be prepared by
negotiations. Bidding documents and RFPs developed under PHP I will be used as source material for
PHP II.
*   Procurement supervision will be conducted every six months and the procurement plan will be
monitored on an on-going basis.
*   Using the manual developed under PHP I as the starting point for PHP II, a Project Management
Manual will be developed in collaboration with the implementing units, and disseminated to all
project team members after clearance by the Bank as a condition of effectiveness. This manual will
contain a section on procurement which will cover procurement procedures, procurement methods,
and reporting requirements. The modifications required for NCB and clarifications of the shopping
procedures will be included in this manual.
*  A Funding Allocations Operational Manual covering the allocation mechanisms under Phase 2 of
the project will be developed, and disseminated to all project team members after clearance by the
Bank. Allocations under component A3 must be awarded in accordance with this manual.
*   Cases of collusion and other fraudulent and corrupt practices will be reported and investigated by the
Borrower and the Bank and remedial actions will be taken.
6. The following modifications and clarifications of the Keppres 18/2000 which are required for it to be an
acceptable NCB procedure for contracts financed by the Bank will be included in the loan/credit agreement:
Registration
(a) Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(b) Where registration is required, bidders (i) shall be allowed a reasonably adequate time to complete
the registration process, and (ii) shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and
resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification.
Pre-qyualification
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works (not for simple goods and works): (i)
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification and (ii) invitations to
pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper a
minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications.
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a joint venture or to
sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition of award of the contract.
- 83 -



Preferences
(a)    No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(b)    Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and local regulations,
which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of contractors or a class of suppliers
shall not be applicable to procurement procedures under this [Loan] [Credit].
Advertising
(a)    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and subrnission of bids and allowing
potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 24 hours prior the deadline for the submission of
bids.
(b)    Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all that are willing to pay
the required fee.
(c)    Bidders domiciled outside the area/district!province of the unit responsible for procurement
shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of the contract.
(d)    Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given an adequate opportunity for registering.
Bid Securitv
Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or bank guarantee from a
reputable bank.
Bid Openina and Bid Evaluation
(a)    Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids, and
if bids are invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time.
(b)    Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the bidding
documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder who is qualified.
(c)    Bidders shall not be eliminated from  detailed evaluation on the basis of minor,
non-substantial deviations.
(d)    No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.
Rejection of Bids
(a)    All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the [Bank's] [Association's]
prior concurrence.
- 84 -



(b)    When the nunber of responsive bids is less than three, re-bidding shall not be carried out
without the [Bank's] [Association's] prior concurrence.
7. Procurement Methods
Procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al, and the thresholds in
Table B.
(a) Civil Works: Contracts for civil works are anticipated only under component B.2 for the
construction of an isolation ward, and, components A.3 and B.3 for demand driven sub-projects which are
covered below under 7 (d) . However some minor civil works may be required for equipment installation
which is expected to be included in the contract for the procurement of equipment. Since all contracts
values for civil works are expected to be small (below US$ 200,000), the works are scattered and foreign
contractors are unlikely to be interested, no International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is specified for civil
works. NCB will be used for all civil works above US$ 25,000. Contracts below US$ 25,000 may be
awarded based on quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors.
(b) Goods: Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for all contracts or
above US$ 200,000 equivalent. These are contracts for equipment for the components of the Health
Information System (HIS), and medical equipment mostly consisting of laboratory equipment. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for contracts at or above US$ 25,000 equivalent.
These contracts will include procurement of computers, smaller components of the HIS, field laboratory
test equipment, and communication equipment. National Shopping will be used for contracts less than
US$ 25,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ I million equivalent. Since the
procurement function is decentralized and there are over 40 implementing units, there are numerous very
small contracts for furniture, office equipment, very small quantities of computers, and printing of
materials. These aggregate amounts do not include contracts under Components A.3 and B.3 for demand
driven sub-projects. Under these components annual aggregates will be reviewed as part of the Borrower's
annual procurement plans for each project year from FY03 until project completion.
(c) Consulting Services: Consultants contract for firms above US$ 100,000 will be selected
based on Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. For such contracts which are less than
US$ 200,000 the short list may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions
under para 2.7 of the consultants guidelines. Consultants selected under QCBS will provide technical
assistance for assignments related to: assessment and development of inspection systems, research unit,
procurement reviews, human resource management and development, developing prepayment models, etc.
All contracts above US$ 200,000 must be advertised in a national newspaper and in Development
Business. For very small assignments below USS 100,000 selection will be based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) method. These are numerous small tasks like developing manuals to support
institutional development, conducting operational research for CDC, conduct training, assistance related to
restructuring, very small assignments for software development, and for small studies like social safety
nets. These assignments will be awarded at all levels and it is expected that some implementing units will
propose to use LCS or single-source selection procedures. In these cases prior concurrence of the Bank
will be required. Contracts may be awarded up to an aggregate amount of US$ 2 million for these three
methods. Individual consultants will be selected per Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
(d) Demand Driven Sub-Projects: (i) Project component A.3, District Block Allocations (Bank
financing US$ 61.51), (ii) Project component B.3, Developing Equity in Service Provision (Bank
- 85 -



financing US$ 3.48 million): The above components will finance subprojects which are demand
driven in nature making it difficult to determine ex-ante what is to be procured. (see Annex 2, for details)
Allocations for A.3 will finance proposals received from the Districts and evaluated by the Technical
Review Teams (TRTs) and Joint Health Councils (JHCs). Before the end of Phase 1, selection and
procurement methods will be agreed in line with methods and thresholds (other than the aggregate
thresholds) as specified in paras 7a, 7b, and 7c; these will be detailed in the Funding Allocation
Operational Manual.
Allocations for B.3 will finance proposals received from the Districts and Provinces. The selection and
procurement methods and thresholds (other than the aggregate thresholds) will be those specified under
paras 7a, 7b, and 7c; these will be detailed in the Project Management Manual.
8. Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
The thresholds for the Association's review are summarized in Table B.
Contracts for civil works at or above USS 50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review. Despite the
above thresholds, however, the first contract for civil works by each implementing unit, regardless of
value, will be subject to prior review.
All contracts for goods at or above US$ 50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review. Also, the first
contract for National Shopping by each implementing unit will be subject to prior review.
Contracts for consulting firms valued at or above USS 50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review.
For contracts below US$ 50,000 the first contract by each implementing unit will be subject to prior
review.
Contracts with individuals valued at or above USS 25,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review.
Also, the first contract by each implementing unit will be subject to prior review.
9. The Procurement Plan for the project, providing a timeline for each step of the procurement process for
the first year of the project has been agreed and is available on file. During the life of the project, annual
procurement plans, acceptable to the Association, will be required as a condition for commencing
implementation in each year of the project.
10. The following action plan is proposed to mitigate the high risk assessment.
A ction                        Responsibility       Completion Date
Capacity enhancement by adding capacity
1. Appointment of a qualified procurement specialist at   MOHSW, CPCU,    Effectiveness
the central level and appointment of procurement  PCIU, DIU
officers at provincial and districts levels.
- 86 -



2. A firm will be hired by the borrower to conduct  MOHSW             RFP has been
annual procurement reviews for the entire project and                 prepared and a firm
suggestions on the TORs have been agreed and                          would be hired within
attached.                                                             three months after
effectiveness.
Review report and
agree on follow-up
actions by November
30 of each year. This
will be a disbursement
condition for each new
FY.
Procurement Training
3. Procurement training will be provided by a firm hired   MOHSW      TORs agreed by
by the Borrower.                                                      Effectiveness and firm
hired within two
months after
Effectiveness
4. Procurement training will also be provided by Bank    BANK         On-going
staff during the project launch work shop and during
supervision.
Enhanced planning and controlling mechanisms
5. The draft procurement plan will be finalized during    MOHSW       Completed
appraisal and an updated procurement plan will be
required for each new fiscal year before disbursements
can be initiated.
6. Modifications required for NCB procedures to be  GOI/BANK          Completed
acceptable are more comprehensive and are included in
the loan/credit agreement, and will be included in the
Project Management Manual.
7. Guidance on shopping procedures consistent with the   GOI/BANK     Completed
intemal Bank guidance is provided and will be included
in the Project Management Manual.
- 87 -



8. The following points will be included in the minutes    GOl/BANK   Completed
of negotiations: remedies for delays in award of
contracts beyond eight weeks after expiry of bid
validity; guidance on newspapers which would meet the
nationwide advertising requirements; reference to
guidance on shopping procedures; reminder to send bid
opening records to the Bank for all prior review cases;
all implementing units will keep all records of the
procurement process in the files by contract, including
copies of the advertisements, bidding documents,
evaluation reports, contract awards, final contract
documents; and, agree on procurement service
standards including remedies if standards are not met.
9. The thresholds for prior review have been set at  GOI/BANK         Completed
lower than the usual levels. USD 50, 000 for Goods,
Works and Consultants, and USD 25,000 for Individual
Consultants. Also the first contract from each
implementing unit will require prior review.
10. The threshold for National Shopping has been  GOI/BANK            Completed
reduced to USD 25,000.
11. Bidding documents and RFPs for procurement    MOHSW               Completed
actions during the first year will be prepared by
negotiations. Bidding documents and RFPs developed
under PHP I will be used as source material for PHP 11.
12. Procurement supervision will be conducted every six   BANK        On-going
months and the procurement plan will be monitored on
an on-going basis.
13. Using the manual developed under PHP I as the  MOHSW              A draft manual has
starting point for PHP 11, a Project Management                       been provided to the
Manual will be developed in collaboration with the                    Bank for review.
implementing units, and disseminated to all project
team members after clearance by the Bank. This                        A manual in final
manual will contain a section on procurement which                    form will be required
will cover procurement procedures, procurement                        as a condition for
methods, and reporting requirements. The                              effectiveness.
modifications required for NCB and clarifications of the
shopping procedures will be included in this manual. A
translation in English will also be provided.
14. A Funding Allocations Operational Manual      MOHSW              1 A Bank cleared
covering the allocation mechanisms under Phase 2 of                   FAOM is a condition
the project will be developed, and disseminated to all                 for disbursement for
project team members after clearance by the Bank.                    I component A4 of the
Allocations under component A3 must be awarded in                     project.
accordance with this manual..
- 88 -



15. Cases of collusion and other fraudulent and corrupt   BANK, MOHSW,   On-going
practices will be reported and investigated by the  CPCU, PCIU, DIU
Borrower and the Bank and remedial actions will be
taken.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment
11. An assessment of the financial management capacity and control environment was conducted
by the Bank FMO, including visits to the Secretary General's Office, MOHSW, the Provincial
Health Offices in West Java and North Sumatera, and the District Health Offices of Bandung and
Bogor districts. The assessment found certain issues and weaknesses and therefore an action plan
was agreed to strengthen financial management capacity (attachment 6a). The objective of the
action plan is to ensure that the project would have sound financial management system when
effective.
The following are the financial management risks to be addressed in the project:
a.    The risk due to lack of capacity and understanding on roles and duties of the project
management staff is addressed by (i) adopting a Project Management Manual (PMM) covering
organization structure, job description, budgeting, procurement, record management, fixed assets
and inventory management, accounting, reporting, intemal control, mechanism for providing
national health grants to the poorest districts, mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of project
management and auditing arrangements; and (ii) training on procurement and financial management
for the relevant staff within the CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs.
b.     The risk due to lack of understanding on the roles of the Joint Health Council (JHC), the
Bappeda (district planning agency), and the Technical Review Team (TRT) on the implementation
of the District Funding Allocation is addressed by (i) adopting a Funding Allocation Operational
Manual (FAOM) covering procedures for proposal preparation and review, flow of funds,
procurement and uses of funds, accounting and reporting procedures for the funds to be followed
by the DIUs, PCIUs and CPCU; and (ii) training on the FAOM for all people involved in the
project.
Financial Management Arrangements
12. Accounting system and procedures: The accounting system and procedures will follow those of
the government system. The specific accounting procedures for the project will be provided in the
PMM. The CPCU, and each PCIU and DIU shall maintain separate accounting records and the
CPCU shall consolidate them for the preparation of the project account.
Project Management Manual (PMM): The PMM shall document the system and procedures to be
followed by the CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs (including consultants) to ensure understanding on their
roles and duties in the project. This PMM is meant to ensure sound financial management practice
during project implementation. The PMM shall set out organization structure, job description,
budgeting, procurement, record management, fixed assets and inventory management, accounting,
reporting, intemal control, mechanism for providing national health grants to the poorest districts,
- 89 -



mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of project management and auditing arrangements to be
followed in the project. A draft version of the PMM is to be provided before negotiations and the
final PMM shall be issuedprior to credit! loan effectiveness.
Funding Allocation Operational Manual(FAOM): The FAOM shall document the system and
procedures followed by DIUs, PCIUs, JHCs, TRTs, and the CPCU. The FAOM shall describe
procedures for proposal preparation and review, flow of funds, procurement and uses of funds,
accounting, and reporting procedures for the funds to be followed by each district. The issuance of
the FAOM and its training are conditions for disbursement of Category 6 (District Funding
Allocation) for the project.
Project Management Report (PMR): On a monthly basis, each DIU shall prepare a PMR and
forward it to the PCIU one week after the end of the month. The PCIU shall prepare a quarterly
report for its activities and compile it with the DIUs' PMRs into a province PMR for submission to
the CPCU, two weeks after the end of the quarter. The CPCU shall then prepare the overall
consolidated PMR for the project submission to the Project Director, MOHSW and the
Association/Bank no later than one month after the end of the quarter. The format of the PMR,
which covers financial management report, progress report and procurement management report
was discussed and agreed during appraisal.
Auditing Arrangements.
13. The project audit: The quarterly PMR shall be the basis for preparing the annual project
accounts. The fourth quarter PMR would be the annual project account. As for other government
projects, audit shall be carried out by the government auditors. The annual audit of project
accounts, including SOEs and special account, shall be furnished to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of the government fiscal year. Prior to negotiations, the Secretary General of
MOHSW would sign a letter appointing the State Audit Authority (BPKP) as the audit authority
for the proposed project and requesting BPKP to conduct an annual financial and implementation
audit in accordance with Terms of Reference for the Audit of Special Purpose Financial Statement
(attachment 6e) and the Audit Manual for World Bank financed project (EAP, July 1998). The
auditor will also audit, due process and due diligence, on a sample basis, and the attainment of
objectives according to the agreed performance indicators.
In the effort to improve transparency in the project, it was discussed during appraisal that the
CPCU would send copies of the annual audit reports to selected mass-media. The CPCU would
provide the Association/Bank with a selected list of mass-media and other organizations to which
copies of audit reports would be sent.
Disbursement Arrangements
14. Flow of Funds: The Pimpros and/or Pimbagpros at the central, provincial and district levels
shall be responsible for procurement and authorization of project expenditures on agreed budget in
accordance with existing government procedures. When expenditures are due for payment, they will
submit payment requests to the relevant Treasury Office (KPKN) which will issue payment
remittance order (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit the payee's accounts at the latter's respective
banks and to debit the project Special Account for the Association/Bank's portion.
Immediately after credit effectiveness, the DG of Budget shall issue a circular letter to the relevant
- 90 -



KPKN Offices providing guidelines and criteria for eligible project expenditures in accordance with
the Credit/Loan Agreement.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOE): Disbursement will be made against Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) for goods, works and individual consultant contracts costing less than USD
50,000 equivalent, consulting firm contracts of less than USD 100,000 equivalent, training,
workshop and incremental operating costs. The documentation for these expenditures will be
retained by the Pimpros or Pimbagpros at the central, provincial and district levels in accordance
with their respective budgeted program. All documentation shall be made available to auditors
during the annual audit and to the Association/Bank upon request during review missions. All
other disbursements from the credit/loan will require full documentation.
Special Account: Government of Indonesia will establish a Special Account (SA) at Bank
Indonesia denominated in US dollars under the name of the Directorate General of Budget with an
authorized ceiling of USD 8,000,000. The SA deposit initially will be limited to USD 4,000,000
until total disbursement reached USD 16,000,000. The SA management is essentially under the
responsibility of the CPCU, which prepare the request for replenishment of the SA as required.
Replenishment of the SA may be based on quarterly PMR only after the production of a PMR
satisfactory to the Association/Bank; otherwise the traditional SOE and full documentation
disbursement will be used.
Replenishment of Special Account: Each DIU and PCIU shall provide copies of SPMs issued for
their subprojects and other relevant supporting documents to the CPCU. Based on the SA bank
statements and copies of SPM and other documents received from the DIUs and PCIUs, the CPCU
shall prepare applications for replenishment on a monthly basis, or when 20% of the authorized
ceiling has been disbursed, whichever occurs first. Only when a satisfactory PMR has been
produced, replenishment of the Special Account may be based on quarterly PMRs.
- 91 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB           Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.20           0.00           0.00        0.20
(0.00)           (0.16)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.16)
2. Goods                              3.87              1.46          0.94          0.00         6.27
(3.81)           (1.17)         (0.75)        (0.00)       (5.73)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           8.31           0.00        8.31
(0.00)           (0.00)         (8.31)        (0.00)       (8.31)
4. Others                             0.00             0.00           92.10        788.91       881.01
a. District Subproject               (0.00)            (0.00)        (88.37)        (0.00)      (88.37)
b. Local Resources
c. Equity Subproject
d. Operating Cost: proj mgt
workshop, training,
fellowship
Unallocated                           0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                              3.87              1.66         101.35        788.91       895.79
____________________________          (3.81)           (1.33)         (97.43)       (0.00)      (102.57)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Credit. All costs include
contingencies.
Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 92 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS     SF8     LCS      co      Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               2.37    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.61    0.00    0.00      3.98
(2.37)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.61)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.98)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.34    0.00      4.34
(0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (4.34)  (0.00)   (4.34)
Total  2.37    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.61    4.34    0.00      8.32
_  (2.37)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.61)  (4.34)  (0.00)   (8.32)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                           Contracts Subject to
Threshold            Procurement           Prior Review
Expenditure Category    (US$ thousands)           Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works                   200 and over              ICB                  Yes (0)
50 to 200               NCB                Yes (0.20)
25 to 50               NCB                 No, 1/ (0)
under 25               Other                No, 1/ (0)
2. Goods                   200 and over              ICB                Yes (3.87)
50 to 200               NCB                 Yes (0.50)
25 to 50               NCB                No, 1/ (.25)
under 25                NS                 No, 1/ (.50)
3. Services: Firms         100 and over             QCBS                 Yes, (2.4)
50 to 100               CQ                 No, 1/ (.80)
25 to 50                CQ                No, 1/ (.30)
Individuals                25 and over              Other               Yes, (0.50)
under 25               Other              No, 1/ (0.50)
4. Demand Driven             under 25              Other 2/
sub-projects
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 9.42 million
- 93 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1/ Ex-post Review on the condition that the first contract of each implementing unit has been reviewed by
the Association
2/ Procurement of Works, Goods and Services under beneficiary sub-projects will be subject to the same
procurement methods and thresholds as in the above Table. The annual procurement plans of the
beneficiary sub-projects will be reviewed by the Association as a condition of disbursement.
- 94 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan/credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan/Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                              0.16                          80%
2. Goods                                    5.73           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of other items procured locally.
3. Local Training, Workshops, and           10.97                         80%
In-house Research
4. Fellowships and Overseas Training        8.51                          100%
5. District Funding Allocation              61.51                         100%
6. National Health Grants                   3.43                          100%
7. Incremental Operating Costs              3.95                          80%
8. Consultant's Services                    8.31                          100%
Total Project Costs                        102.57
Total                                      102.57
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Special account:
Annex 6.a
THE MINIMUM TERMS OF REFERENCE
OF THE PROCUREMENT SPECLALIST/PROCUREMENT OFFICER(PO)
1.    Qualifications and Experience
a) Procurement Specialist with at least a University degree, preferable in civil engineering, with at least
three years experience in World Bank's financed project, to be positioned in the CPCU.
b) Procurement Officers, with a minimum three-year's Diploma, with at least three years working
experience in procurement, preferable in World Bank's financed project, to be positioned in each of the
PCIUs.
c) Procurement Officer, with a minimum of three-year's Diploma, with at least two years working
experience in procurement, to be positioned in each of the DIUs.
2.     Reporting and Counterparts
- 95 -



The PO reports directly to the Executive Secretary, and may have a government counterpart, assigned by
the Project Director.
3.    Responsibilities
The PO will manage the procurement program for the Project, provide to others the technical support and
guidance in all aspects of procurement in accordance with the Project Guidelines as described in the Project
documents and the Loan Agreement.
The PO will be expected to ensure high quality, transparency, problem solving of procurement issues, and
facilitating smooth and speedy implementation of the program. In addition, the PO will coordinate with the
Financial Manager in the PMU to ensure overall integration of plans and reports.
More specifically, the PO will:
a)    Update the procurement plan on a regular basis and ensure implementation of the procurement
plans for works, goods and consultants agreed with the Bank;
b)    Work with the technical specialist to review and update the procurement schedules;
c)    Ensure compliance with the World Bank Guidelines that apply to the Project.
d)    Assist the Project Director in ensuring that procurement arrangements are consistent with project
implementation and development objectives and, as needed, discuss options and possible solutions with the
Project Director.
e)    Prepare the Request for Proposals, Invitations to Bid (including specifications and selection
criteria) and processing of bid evaluations;
f)    Prepare the procurement documents required to obtain clearance from the World Bank for
awarding of contracts and follow-up actions;
g)    Prepare the contracts with selected suppliers/contractors/consultants, including follow up for
delivery of goods/services/works according to schedule;
h)    Organize the receipt of goods at entry, customs clearance, and delivery to the final destination;
i)    Maintain records of goods received, their quality and quantity, compliance with contract
specifications and accounts for actual deliveries;
j)    In coordination with the Project Managemnent handle warranty and insurance claims;
k)    Maintain a proper filling system for all relevant procurement documents in the Project and prepare
needed reports and documents for the World Bank review missions;
1)    Coordinate with the PMU Financial Officer on contractual payments;
m)    Train other parties concemed with procurement, such as: auditing agencies/units, other members of
tender board;
- 96 -



n)      Carry out other procurement related tasks assigned by the Project Director
7. Reports
The PO shall prepare a quarterly progress report (physical and financial) and assist the Project Director in
the compilation of the Project Progress Report (Quarterly).
- 97 -



Annex 6.b
Recommendations for the Terms of Reference (TOR) of
Procurement Audit
1.    Introduction
The following section presents suggestions for the TOR to obtain better audit results.
2.     Key Staff for the Assignment
It is advisable to include the number of key staff that will be involved in the audit and their skills.
For example:
q      Head of project with educational background in engineering, administration, economics, law or
related fields. Minimum experience of 5 years in the procurement area applying Bank Guidelines and
familiar with procurement ex-post reviews and/or procurement audits.
q      Procurement expert with educational background in engineering, administration, economics, law or
related fields. Minimum experience of 3 years in the procurement area applying Bank Guidelines and
familiar with procurement ex-post reviews and/or procurement audits.
Since the number of works contracts to be reviewed under the district allocation is expected to be
significant, it is advisable that at least one of the key staff be an engineer experienced in construction or
works supervision.
3.     Sample Determination
Determining the sample of contracts to be reviewed is a critical stage in an audit by sample. If for
any reason, the sample is poorly selected or skewed this may distort the audit's results. For this reason, it
is recommended that both the Bank and the borrower participate in this stage. Furthermore, the TOR
should indicate the number of contracts to be reviewed, so the consulting firm can more easily determine
the effort required and subsequently the cost of the work.
4.     Presentation of the Analysis of Each Contract Reviewed
All of the audits reviewed present the analysis of each contract in one or two pages with the
relevant aspects listed vertically. To facilitate the interpretation of this information, we recommend that the
information be presented in a matrix with columns listing each stage of the procurement process and rows
presenting each contract reviewed. This format lends itself to identifying whether the same observation was
found in one or more contracts in the same stage. It also lends itself to analyzing one contract by row. Box
Al presents the format described with only 3 stages in a procurement process.
Box Al: Suggested Format for Process Analysis in Procurement Audits
Example: Review Chart of NCB of Audit XX
- 98 -



Name and          Bidding          No Objection    Evaluation        Comments
Contract          Documents
Number
#27 Health Center  OK             Not obtained (1)  Bid evaluated    (1) Error
Improvements                                       with lowest       admitted. (2) To
evaluated cost    avoid problems
not awarded      with the General
contract (2)     Audit awarded
the contract to the
lowest priced bid.
#45 Sanitary Unit   Only 15 days   OK              Bid evaluated     (1) Although they
BB                were allowed                     with lowest      stated this was
for presentation                 score not        due to the
of bid offers (1)                awarded          urgency of the
contract (2)     work, evaluation
and contract
placement took 3
months. (2) Same
as above.
#67 Health Center  Only 15 days    OK              Bid evaluated     (1) and (2) same
Construction      were allowed                     with lowest      as above.
for presentation                 evaluated cost
of bid offers (1)                not awarded
contract (2)
By presenting the information in this format, it is easier to determine that there is a serious problem
in bid evaluation in all the contracts of the sample, indicating that this problem probably occurred in all the
contracts. If the audit encountered this error and used the proposed matrix, the rest of the contracts could
easily and rapidly be reviewed to verify whether this problem was universal.
Less importantly, problems in the amount of time given for presentation of bid offers can be
observed. It should be analyzed whether the justifications given for omitting a step are acceptable or not.
Finally, it can be seen that almost all of the contracts received a corresponding No Objection,
although this was found lacking in one contract. This may be an involuntary error or there may be reasons
for this problem, which should be analyzed more deeply.
It is recommended that the TOR request that the information be presented in a matrix for each
method reviewed, as this facilitates interpretation and the search for pattems or exceptions which require a
more in-depth analysis.
5.    Presentation of Observations
- 99 -



Using the aforementioned matrix, the observations should state explicitly how many times the
observation was encountered in the sample of contracts reviewed. For example, the No Objection was
missing in 6 contracts of 8 reviewed.
The observations presented should be divided between important and secondary findings. The
important observations should state whether the omissions encountered are sufficiently severe as to
recommend follow-up actions. Furthermore, recommendations should be given to avoid these errors
including a procurement training needs assessment.
The secondary observations are generally minor deviations, and recommendations for future
contracts should be provided.
6.    Action Plan
The report must include a proposed action plan, prioritizing the measures to be taken by both the
implementing units and the Bank to address the deficiencies observed.
7.    Draft Report and Analysis Meeting
Once the consulting firm produces a first draft of the report, it should be sent to both the Bank and
the implementing agency so that the implementing agency may present comments and justifications to the
report and that the Bank may also present its comments. In this manner, the final document can be
accepted by all concerned as it would reflect with greater precision the work undertaken. Agreement could
also be reached regarding the proposed action plan to address the deficiencies observed.
If differing points of view are offered, it is recommended that a meeting be held to reach agreement.
If this is not possible, the Bank must make a determination of the follow-up actions required by Bank
policy.
8.    The facilitation role of the consultants
The terms of reference of the consultants should include the facilitation role under which they
would help all implementing units to organize to manage the project procurement. These activities would
complement the efforts of the procurement specialist and would include:
     Explaining the requirements of the loan/credit agreement
     Assisting in defining training requirements
     Assisting in establishing contract rosters and filing systems
- 100 -



Annex 6.c
Financial Management Action Plan
Issues/Problem                      RemedialAction             Resp.       Due Date
A. Project Organization and Staffing
I. Staffing of CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs      Decrees of staff appointment of  GOI       By Credit
CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs                       Effectiveness
B. Project Management Manual
A Manual that documents procedures to be    Draft PMM                     GOI       Completed
followed by CP CU, PCIUs and DIUs
covering organization structure, job     Final PMM                        GOI       By Effectiveness
description, budgeting, procurement, record
management, fixed assets and inventory
management, accounting, reporting, internal
control, mechanism for providing national
health grants to the poorest districts,
mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of
project management and auditing
arrangements for the project, including the
English translation.
C. Funding Allocation Operational
Manual
A Manual that documents procedures to be    Issuance of final Funding     GOI       Disbursement
followed by DIUs, PCIUs, JHCs, TRTs and    Allocation Operational Manual.           condition for
the CPCUfor proposal preparation and                                                Category 5 of the
review, flow of funds, procurement and uses                                         Credit
of funds, accounting and reporting and   Funding Allocation Operational
monitoring for the fund s.               Manual training
D. Training
Training by which key staff within the   Project Management Manual        GOI       Immediately
CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs (including the      training                                   after Credit
project managers and subproject managers in                                         effectivenes s
West Java, Banten North Sumatera and
central level who will be involve in this
project) will acquire the necessary skills to
carry out their respective duties as described
in the Project Man agement Man ual
E. Auditing
Arrangement of the project audit in       Draft audit arrangements and TOR           Completed
accordance with a specific TOR for audit  discussed and agreed
Letter to Auditor (agreed during           Completed
appraisal) confirming the audit
arrangements
G. PMR Evaluation
Evaluation on the implementation of FM   Review on FM system and          CPCU      Periodically -
System in CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs including   quarterly PMR within 30 days   WB        limit one year
re-evaluation on potential for PMR-based  after the quarter end submitted by   (TTL/  after project
disbursements.                           CPCU to WBOJ                     FMO)      effectiveness
- 101 -



Annex 6.d
TERMS OF REFERENCE
for the Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statements
Objectives
The overall objectives of the audit are: (i) to enable the auditor to express a professional
opinion on the project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management
system including internal controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (ii) to provide
project management with timely information on financial aspects of the project to enable
follow-up action; and (iii) ) to assess on the achievements of project objectives as measured
by performance indicators.
The audit should cover the entire project, i.e. covering all sources and application of funds
by all implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and
other agencies as considered necessary for the audit.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and
with the Audit Manual for World Bank Financed projects (July 1998). It will include such
tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. Specific areas
of coverage of the audit will include the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with consistently applied Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and
give a true and fair view of the operations of the project during the year and the financial
position of the project at the close of the fiscal year. Any material deviations from GAAP,
and the impact of such departures on the project financial statements as presented would be
stated
(2) An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems , including
internal controls. This would include aspects such as adequacy and effectiveness of
accounting, financial and operational controls, and any needs for revision; level of
compliance with established policies, plans and procedures; reliability of accounting systems,
data and financial reports; methods of remedying weak controls or creating them where there
are none; verification of assets and liabilities; and integrity, controls, security and
effectiveness of the operation of the computerized system (if any), and
(3) An assessment of compliance with provisions of financing agreements, especially those
relating to accounting and financial matters. This would inter alia include verification that:
(a) all extemal funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant
financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the
purposes for which the financing was provided.
(b) counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes of which
they were provided;
- 102 -



(c) expenditures charged to the project are eligible expenditures and have been correctly
classified in accordance with the relevant financing agreement;
(d) goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement;
(e) all necessary supporting documents, records, and account have been kept in respect of all
project activities
(f) clear linkages exist between the accounting records including accounts books and the
Project Financial Statements;
(g) where Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the relevant financing agreement.
(h) statement of expenditures (SOE) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal
applications accurately reflect expenditures and activities on the project
(i) project expenditures as reported by the project implementation agencies are reconciled
with the amounts withdrawn from the Special Account and the amounts deposited to the
special account are reconciled with the amounts disbursed from the IDA Credit.
(4) An assessment on the achievements of the planned results of the projects as measured by
the performance indicators as stipulated in the relevant financing agreement.
Project Financial Statements.
Districts' project accounts shall be prepared by the DIUs and Provinces' project accounts
shall be prepared by PCIUs whereas the consolidated project accounts shall be prepared by
the CPCU, and should include (i) Annual Project Expenditures and Financing; and (ii)
Cumulative Project Expenditures and Financing. Sources of funds would show IDA, IBRD,
other donors, and GOI counterpart funds separately. Project expenditures would be
summarized by main project components, disbursement categories and by project location
(province or kabupaten) both consolidated for the current fiscal year and accumulated to
date. The consolidated project account shall also include Financial Statement of Special
Account covering: (i) deposits and replenishments received from the Association; (ii)
withdrawals from the special account; and (iii) the remaining balances at the end of the fiscal
year
The auditor should provide an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Association's
procedures and the exactitude of the balance of the Special Account at year-end. The audit
should examine the eligibility and integrity of financial transactions during the period under
review and fund balances at the end of the period, the operation and use of the special
account in accordance with the financing agreement, and the adequacy of internal financial
controls.
Special Account: The auditor must assess a reconciliation report between the project
expenditures made from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account.
Reconciliation should also be made with the amounts paid from the pre-financing account
- 103-



and direct payments (if any). The auditor should assess a reconciliation report between the
amounts deposited to the special account and disbursed by the Association to the special
account.
Statement of Expenditures: The auditor is also required to audit all SOEs (paid
from the special account and/or other accounts) used as the basis for the submission of
withdrawal applications. The auditor should apply such tests and control as the auditor
consider necessary under the circumstances. These expenditures should be carefully
compared for project eligibility with the relevant financing agreements, and with reference to
the Project Appraisal Document for guidance when considered necessary. Ineligible
expenditures identified as having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed by
the Association should be noted separately by the auditor. The total withdrawals under the
SOE procedure should be part of the overall reconciliation of Association disbursements
described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project
financial statements, including an opinion on the Special Account and a separate paragraph
commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under the SOE
procedures and the extent to which the Association can rely on SOEs as a basis for loan
disbursement. The report should refer to the auditor's TOR. The auditor should submit the
report to the project executing agency who should then promptly forward one copy of the
audited accounts and report to the Association. It should be received by the Association no
later than six months after the end of the project's fiscal year.
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter,"
in which the auditor will:
(a) give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that
were examined during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of
weakness in systems and controls and make recommendations for their improvement;
(b) give comments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of resources;
(c) report on the achievement of the planned results of the project
(d) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
agreement and give comments, if any, on intemal and extemal matters affecting such
compliance;
(e) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a
significant impact on the implementation of the project, and
(f) any other matters that the auditors considers pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and
any other information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor.
- 104-



Confirmation should also be obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the
Association/Bank.
The auditor should be familiar with the Association/Bank's Audit Manualfor World
Bank Financed Projects which provide guidance to auditors conducting audits of
Association/Bank financed projects.
The financial management system would include methods and records established to identify, assemble, analyze, classify,
record and report on transactions and to maintain accountability for the related assets and liabilities.
- 105 -



Provincial Health Project II
Flow of Funds
National                                                                                                                     e
audits
/0Ufl~1 b   PMR and aDglfor reolenj ment                                     A
X                        ~~~~~~~~~counto ti on/
Bank Indonesia                                          copGBUDETs
Headoffice          bank                              bank DCPCU
Speial Acct.         statement                         statement                  j
PMR
Copies SPM
Debit to
Special Account        Guidelines                                                       \
_                               +\            j  ~~~~~~~~~BPKP
District & or                                                                                                           r    fic
Province
(incl. National Pi pro)                                                                         audits
l     _                    ~~~~~~MOF Treasury  payment             
Bank Indonesia            SPM            KPKN        L    request
Brnhofficej.                                                          Pimpro/ Cl
funds                        SPM
transfer                                       Copies SPM, CoC uies sup.docs
PM Reports  os
(from Pimpros/Pimba(sros
at Province level)/
Copies SPM/
Copies sup.docs                /   MReports
funds                                               PM Reports                    / Cooies SPM
transfer                                           (from Pimpros/Pimb 3gpros    /
(only for grant)                                    at the district level)
DIU Bank Account            L|          powithdraws- iDIU
- 106-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
Project Schedule                                   Planned             -       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                            12
First Bank mission (identification)             08/09/2000                    08/09/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     04/19/2001                    04/18/2001
Negotiations                                    05/15/2001                    05/15/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/15/2001
Prepared by:
Provincial and District Health offices in North Sumatera and West Java
Bureau of Planning, MOHSW, Bappeda of North Sumatera and West Java.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant, TF025117 (GOI executed)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
6  Name                   I              Speciality
Sarnuel Lieberman                 Lead Specialist, Task Team Leader
Anthony Toft                      Senior Counsel
Puti Marzoeki                     Operations Officer
Naseer Ahmad Rana                 Senior Procurement Specialist
Yogana Prasta                     Senior Disbursement Officer
Novira Asra                       Financial Management Specialist
Benedicta Ridati Sembodo          Team Assistant
- 107-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Project proposals for Provincial Health Project II from North Sumatera Province, West Java Province,
the central MOHSW and the Food and Drug Agency.
*   Project Costab
*   Project Implementation Plans including the Procurement Plans for Phase 1 of the project.
*   Procurement Capacity Assessment Review.
*   Financial Management System Assessment Report
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Report No. 213 18-IND, "Indonesia Health Strategy in a Post-Crisis, Decentralizing Indonesia" - November
17, 2000*
C. Other
"Analisa Situasi Biaya Kesehatan Jawa Barat 1996-1999."
Bappenas, North Sumatra Local Government, The World Bank and The Danish Embassy. October, 2000.
Draft. "Provincial Health Policy in North Sumatra: Protecting the Poor under Decentralization" (October
2000).
Bappenas, The World Bank and The Danish Embassy. 1999. Draft Report. "Developing a Master Plan
for Health Service Delivery in North Sumatra, With Special Consideration for Protecting the Poor".
CREDES. March, 2001. Asem Trust Fund Report, "Responding to the Crisis: Supply and Distribution of
Pharmaceuticals in Indonesia - Analysis and Recommendations regarding GOI's Pharrnaceuticals Policies".
Departemen Kesehatan R.I., Kanwil Provinsi Sumatera Utara, Medan. "Profil Kesehatan Provinsi
Sumatera Utara 1997", and other years.
Government of West Java. "Analisis Pelayanan JPSBK Jawa Barat Tahun 2000 di Propinsi Jawa Barat".
Government of West Java. "Visi - Misi dan Faktor - Faktor Kunci Keberhasilan".
James R. Marzolf. "Revised Calculations of the Poverty Grant Magnitude" . April, 2001. WHO - Health
Economics.
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Secretarty General. January, 2001 "Decentralization in Health
Sector: Strategic Issues". Presented in the Retreat Forum on Decentralization of Health Care, Bogor.
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. 2000. "Guidelines in the Determination of Minimal Service
Standard in Health Sector in District/Municipality". Decree of Minister of Health and Social Welfare of
the Republic of Indonesia, Nr. 1747/Menkes-Kesos/SKlXII/2000.
Policy Advisory Group. "Thinking about Implementation Strategies for Decentralization". January, 2001.
- 108-



Presented on the Retreat on Decentralization in Health Sector, Bogor.
Azwar, Azrul, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. April, 2001. "National Poverty and Health Funds".
Research Institute The University of Padjajaran and The Health Regional Provincial Office of West Java.
"Final Report Operation Research on Health Service Needed by The Isolated Baduy Community in District
of Lebak" (18/2/1999).
SMERU Field Report, a unit with support from The World Bank, AusAID, the ASEM Trust Fund, and
AUSAID. June, 2000. "Preparation for Decentralization/Regional Autonomy. Case Study: Kota
Sukabumi West Java."
Soemitro S. Primiana I, Suherman Y, Panigoro R, Soekandar A, Nelwan I, Setiawati P, Health Economics
Working Group, Padjajaran University, Bandung, West Java. "Study to Anticipate the Health
Decentralisation in Indonesia: Health Budget Optimation Analysis of Districts and Cities of West Java
Province."
The British Council, Iwan Ariawan. April, 2001. "Monitoring the Implementation of HNSDP in Indonesia
(a Brief Summary from CIMU-Health Survey in West Sumatera, West Java and Bali)."
The World Bank, Human Development Sector Unit. Draft Report. "Immunization Services and
Decentralization in Indonesia."
*Including electronic files
- 109-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
andJ actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRO         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P049545       2000 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALIH I                             0.00      38.00                  0.00       0.00     36.09       1.66       0.00
P059477       2000 ID-WSSLIC I1                                       0.00      77.40                  0.00       0.00     74.99       0.00       0.00
P059930       2000 DECENTAGR/FOR EXT                                  13.00      5.00                  0.00       0.00     16.66       3.26       0.00
P055821       1999 IND-URBAN POVERTY PROJECT                           0.00    100.00                  0.00       0.00     31.64       -1.59      0.00
P056074       1999 IND-MUNCPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT                    5.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      3.07       2.20       0.00
P041895       1999 ID-SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                           47.90      15.93                  0.00       0.00     51.90      16.43       0.00
P003967       1999 ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                           44.70       0.00                  0.00       5.00     30.42      11.03       0.00
P064118       1999 WATSAL                                            300.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    250.00     250.00       0.00
P063732        1999 CORPORATE RESTRJCTRG                              31.50      0.00                  0.00      16.50      9.65      26.15       0.00
P040196        1999 ID-SUMATRABASICEDUC                               54.50     20.10                  0.00       0.00     54.32       8.13       0.00
P036049       1999 ID-EARLYCHILDDE\ELOPMENT                           21.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00     19.50      14.65      14.65
P040061       1996 6ENCKULU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                      20.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00      18.93      7.23       0.00
P048715       1998 IOP                                                34.50      0.00                  0.00       8.50     19.52      22.04      16.77
P045337       1998 ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND                             225.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     143.24     51.69       0.00
P040062       1998 CORAL REEF MGMT REHA                                0.00      0.00                  4.10       0.00      2.11       1.59       1.33
P036956       1998 ID-SAFE MOTHERHOOD                                42.50       0.00                  0.00       8.00     20.07      10.07       6.57
P003993       1998 SUMATRA REG. ROADS                               234.00       0.00                  0.00      50.00    157.19      31.94      -1.61
P039644       1998 ID-W. JAVA BASIC EDUC.                            103.50      0.00                  0.00       3.76     52.02     -26.72       0.00
P055755        1998 BANKING REFORM ASST.                              20.00      0.00                  0.00       0.90      6.42       7.32       0.00
P036048       1998 CORALREEFMGMREHAB                                  6.90       0.00                  4.10       0.00      4.14       3.64       3.04
P036053       1997 IND-SULAWESI UDP 11                               155.00      0.00                  0.00      67.05     24.15      83.70     -16.68
P004026       1997 RLWY EFFICIENCY                                   105.00      0.00                  0.00      20.00     79.31      79.81       0.00
P036047       1997 IND-BALI URBAN INFRASTRLCTURE PROJECT             110.00      0.00                  0.00      30.06     56.69      23.75      12.79
P040195       1997 ID-QUALITY OFUNDERGRADLIATE EDUCIQUE)             71.20       0.00                  0.00       9.89     30.57      12.51       2.96
P003700       1997 SOLARHOMESSYSTEMS                                  0.00       0.00                 24.30       0.00     19.16      14.20       5.17
P003987       1997 ID-CENTRAL INDONESIA SEC. EDU.                    104.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     51.79      33.09       0.00
P049051       1997 BEPEKA AUDIT MODERP                                16.40      0.00                  0.00       0.90     10.38       8.72       6.77
P042540       1997 IDAOOINEDEF.COt4TROL                               28.50      0.00                  0.00       9.00      10.13     10.63       9.83
P041894       1997 ID-SUMATRA SEC EDUC                                98.00      0.00                  0.00       0.03     31.36       -4.11      0.00
P037097       1996 ID-E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                                99.00      0.00                  0.00       3.63     38.21      16.55       0.00
P039312       1996 INO-EASTJAVAUDPII                                 117.00      0.00                  0.00      53.00      16.56     69.56      12.97
P003978       1996 INOL TECHNOLOGY DEV                                47.00      0.00                  0.00       8.54      9.00      17.54      11.56
P003699       1996 KERINC SEBLAT ICDP                                  0.00      0.00                 15.00       0.00      9.61       4.70       0.00
P004003       1996 ID-SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVT                   60.40      0.00                  0.00      30.00      2A8       32.03      -0.02
P004004        1996 ID-HIGHER EDUC SUP(DUE)                           65.00      0.00                  0.00       6.86      7.58       -4.56     -8.22
P004008       1996 NUSATENGGARA DEV.                                  27.00      0.00                  0.00       4.90      6.46       6.76      -1.06
P004021       1996 POW. TRANS &DIST 11                               373.00      0.00                  0.00     163.71     19.05     182.76      17.86
PO4016       1996 STRATEGIC UR'. ROS I                               86.90      0.00                  0.00      10.00     24.66      29.16       7.55
P004011       1996 SULAWESI AGRI AREA                                 26.80      0.00                  0.00       3.70      6.11       2.55      -3.25
P004014       1996 KERINQSEBLATICDP                                   19.10      0.00                 15.00       3.00      11.73     10.73       0.00
P003965       1995 10-HEALTHIV:IMPR HEALT                             88.00      0.00                  0.00      39.00       1.54     35.26      11.54
P003951       1995 IND-KALIMANTANUDP                                 136.00      0.00                  0.00      15.14      19.10     34.32      16.32
P039754       1995 IND-TAP41-2                                        28.00      0.00                  0.00       3.00      10.62     13.62       4.96
P003968       1995 ID-BOOK & READINGDEV                              132.50      0.00                  0.00      36.50     42.85      74.59      40.10
P003972       1995 AG. RESEARCH II                                    63.00      0.00                  0.00      22.10      12.18     32.78       2.23
P003984       1995 LAND ADMINISTRATION                                80.00      0.00                  0.00      33.90      0.25      34.15      17.65
P003986       1995 ID-PHRDO                                           69.00      0.00                  0.00      12.00      8.89      19.65      11.39
P004001       1995 TELECOM SECTOR MODER                              325.00      0.00                  0.00      69.67     96.38     166.05     116.05
P003890       1994 IND-SEMARANG SURAKARTA UDP                        174.00      0.00                  0.00      38.67     33.97      72.64      20.58
P003910       1994 SUMATERA&KALIMANP                                 260.50      0.00                  0.00      56.00      35.19     91.19      93.78
P003945        1994 HIGHWAY SECTOR II                                350.00      0.00                  0.00      46.00     54.40     100.40      30.40
P003954       1994 JAVAIRRIMP&WRM                                    165.70      0.00                  0.00      41.17      15.84     57.01      35.00
P004010       1994 DAM SAFETY                                         55.00      0.C0                  0.00      19.80      4.26      24.06      -0.31
P034080       1994 BIODIVERSITY COLLECT                                0.00      0.00                  7.20,      0.00      0.21       0.55       0.00
- 110-



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              and actual
disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                    GEF   Cancel   Undisb-        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003914       1993 IDTHIRDCOMM HEALTH&                            93.50      0.00                0.00      19.70      1.34      21.04      5.04
Total:    4834.50     256.43              69.70      969.58    1803.99    1848.11    503.72
- 111 -



INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               PT Bank NISP                  5.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Berlian                    9.29   20.00    0.00   27.09    8.15   16.65    0.00   23.57
1995               PT Bunas Finance              5.54    0.00    0.00    1.45    5.54    0.00    0.00    1.45
1996               PT Dharnala                  20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1995               PT Grahawita                  0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1995               PT Hotel Santika              3.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              PT Indaci                      0.00    0.00    1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.44    0.00
PT Indo-Raina                22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/93/95/99   PT KIA Keramik               16.51    6.02    0.00   53.49   16.51    6.02    0.00   53.49
1992/94/96         PT KIA Serpih                15.00    6.35    0.00   49.50   15.00    6.24    0.00   49.50
1995              PT Kalirnrntan                20.00   15.00    0.00    6.00   15.56   15.00    0.00    4.67
1997              PT Makro                       0.00    1.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/00           PT Megaplast                   8.75    2.50    0.00    0.00    8.75    2.50    0.00    0.00
1998              PTNusantara                    3.18    0.00    0.00   10.38    3.18    0.00    0.00   10.38
1993              PT PAMA                        0.00    0.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.71    0.00    0.00
1994               PT Pranindo Ikat             25.00    8.18   25.00   59.50   25.00    3.91   25.00   59.50
1996              PT RIMBA                       2.53    0.60    0.00    0.74    2.53    0.60    0.00    0.74
1991              PT Samudera                    0.00    5.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1993              PT Sayap                      10.00    0.00    0.00   14.00   10.00    0.00    0.00   14.00
1997               PT Viscose                   23.59    0.00    0.00   29.46   23.59    0.00    0.00   29.46
1992/95           PT Wings                       8.68    0.00    0.00   14.92    8.68    0.00    0.00   14.92
1997              Prudential Asia                0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.24    0.00    0.00
1994               SEAVI Indonesia               0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1991               Semen Andalas                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/87            Ciluluk Village               0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               KDLC Bali                     2.08    1.14    0.00    0.00    2.08    1.14    0.00    0.00
1994               LYON-MLF-Ibis                 2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01    2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01
1991               Manulife                      0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1988               POF                           5.14    1.93    0.00    6.00    5.14    1.93    0.00    6.00
1995               PT ABS Finance                0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00
1995               PT AdeS Alfindo              10.29    3.53    0.00   17.64   10.29    3.53    0.00   17.64
1997               PT Agro Muko                  0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00
1989               PTAlumindo                   18.50    0.00    0.00   16.00   18.50    0.00    0.00   16.00
1997               PT Argo Pantes                9.38   13.00    0.00    11.36    9.38   13.00    0.00   11.36
1991               PT Astra                      0.00    5.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.82    0.00    0.00
1989/91/94         PT Astra Graphia              0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Astra Otopart              0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
1997               PT BBL Dharmala              11.35    0.00    0.00   21.40   11.35    0.00    0.00   21.40
1993/96            PT Bakrie Pipe               17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00   17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00
1995
Total Portfolio:      275.49   104.13   41.33   350.94  269.89   92.62   40.94  346.09
- 112 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              NISP Equity                       0.00     0.00   5000.00      0.00
2000              PT Petrosea                   15000.00   8200.00   1800.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    15000.00   8200.00   6800.00     0.00
- 113-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDONESIA: ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia &      Low-
Indonesia    Pacific  income        Development diamond'
1999
P-n0lation mirl-vrar millhonsl                         7n7 n      1 R37      2 417                  Life expectancy
GNP ner Caoita (Atlas method. US$)                       580      1.000       410
GNP tAtlas method USS hillions)                        120 1      1 RR3        WIR
Averace annual orowth. 1993-99                                                                            T
Ponnlutrnn /%i                                            1 i        1'2       I 9
Labor force '%'                                          ? 7        1 3        2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate Ilatest vear avAilable, 1993-99t                                  capita                          prim
Povertrv 1% of oooulation below national oovertv line)    20
llrhan nonnlation 1% of total Dooulatioil 5                         34        31
Lifr evnectancv at birth (vears)                          65         89        80
InfAnt mnrtAlitv IDer 1.000 live birthsl                  43         35        77
Child mlnoltrition I% of children under SI              :14         22        43                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water somrce 1% of oooulationl         62         84        64
Illit.ra.o 1% of 0oolation aae 15-l                       14         15        3- n e
Gross rimarv enrollment 1% of school-aae oDulationi      113        119        96ndoneia
MaliI 115                                                         121       1n2                   Low-income group
vPmip                                                 111)       171        RR
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999        _ _           _          -
Economic ratios'
GDP IUS$ billions)                             55 1    101.5       98.8      151 2
Gro.es roms6tir inves,tm.nt/GrfP               24 A     29 I       2n n       13 I1
F%niorts of noond and -serir rslP              305 Rn f 7 I        5" 7       340                       Trade
Gross domestic savinoss/GDP                    32 8     32.8       29 4       21 0
Gross natinnAl savinnolGOP                              723        24 A       13 9
C.rrent account bal,ncelGDP                       -      -1 5       4 7        4 2     Domestic                       Ie      n
-terest naVmentvGrp                            1 q       R 3           7      4R       Dmsicg s
Tntal deht/GOP                                 338       5 SR 5    152 7      97 5      Savings                       Is
Total debt -ervire/exoorls                              37.5       34.7       37 9
Present valofd ntht/ GOP                                          148 4
Present value of debtl/exnorts                              .     264.9
Indebtedness
1979.89  1989.99      1998       1999   1999-03
(averace annual arowthl
GP                                     i n      s 3     -1 0        03          4              -      Indonesia
GNP ne ranit                          39        3 4     -17R        n 4        25               - -  Low-income group
Exnorts of ooods and services         1.4       6.0     11 2       -31 6       7 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
f%/ of GDP)                                                                            40
An-riulfire                                    27 3     21 7       17 0       17 3
Industr"                                       37.7     38.3       42.7       43.1     2
Manolfactujrino                              11 7      19 7       241  ?S4
Services                                       35.0     40.0       40.3       39.6     2       94   95
Private. consomin                              57 h           SR s  f 1       72 s5    -
General o--ernment tnn..l.nfmtion               9 s      A 7        S S        i                       GDI    -       GDP
ImDorts of noods and services                  22.6     21.4       41.7       2689
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
laveraoe annual orowthi
Aori.ciltnjre                                   3 4      7 5        -n 7       2 1     40
Industry                                        6.5      7.2      -14.0        1.2    20
Man-fart-rin.                                130 n      8        -11 4       28 6,
Servicrs                                        7 0      4 7       -1f 4      -1 4    -        96    97 
Private ---simn-ion                               fis    7 3        -63       .l 7     40
General n-v-rrm- nt -   -nncimnton              s 3       0 8      -15 4       0 7
Gross domestic investment                      687       3.9      -34.6      -20 0     60
Ionit, of noods and crrvicec                    1 R      R 5        - 53     -40 7                   Exports    - -mpors
Gross national oroduct                          5.9       5.1     -18.5        2.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-arouo averane. If data are missina. the diamond will
h. inonmnle.t
- 114 -



Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999    |Infation (l-)
Domestic prices
(%/ change)
Consumer prices                                -      6.4      58.5      20.5     75 -
ImplicitGDPdeflator                         33.6    10.0       81.2      12.8     50
Government finance                                                                25
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Currentrevenue                                 ..    17.1      15.1      16.3            94   95   98   97   9s    9
Current budget balance                         ..    -3.9       0.5       2.8                  GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplusideficit                       ..       ..      -3.2      -1.5
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                            1979    1989        1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  23,833    48,354   55,546    6000o
Fuel                                        ..   9,340       7,424   10,256
Rubber                                       ..    952       1,420    1,229    40,ODO_
Manufactures                                 .    7,669    23,322   26,281
Total imports (cif)                                19,624    33,778   35,945
Food                                        ..    521        1,284    1,787    20,00 n      ib
Fuel and energy                              ..   3,146      3,122    3,958
Capital goods                                ..   5,904      6,388    3,366
93  94  95  96  97  55  99
Exoort orice index 11995=100.                         83
Imoort orice index (1995=100l                  ..     87         ..                             Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..     95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
IUSS miltions)
Exports of goods and services                 ..  25,460    52,722    59,317      6
Imports of goods and services                 ..  19,675    41,060   41,972
Resource balance                              ..   5,785    11,662    17,345      4
Net income                                     ..  -2,920    -8,066   -10.958     2                           I    i
Net current transfers                         ..  -4,464      1,013       -99
Current account balance                        ..   1,599     4,609    6,288                                         99
Financing items (net)                         ..   1,847    -3,140    -2,836         f     El
Changes in net reserves                       ..   -248    -1,469   -3,452        4_
Memo:
Reserves includino oold IUSS millionsl        ..       ..   26.169   31.221
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)           623.1  1.770.1   10.013.6  7.405.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
FUSS millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS m il.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      18,624   59,402   150,875  147,435                       A: 11,578
IBRD                                       739    8,542    10,692    11,578            G:20,941          s:6a2
IDA                                       525      854        694      682
c: 9.090
Total debt service                         3,065    9,833    18,967   23,225
IBRD                                        95    1,134     1,456     1,584                                    D :9,083
IDA                                         4       15         26       29
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            137     214        255
Official creditors                        555    2,935      2,696                                              E: 32,054
Private creditors                           99      80    -3,653         0
Foreign direct investment                 226      682       -356                  F: 64,007
Portfolio equity                             0      199       250
World Bank program
Commitments                                815    2,007     1,672    1,693      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                             229    1,258      1,212    1,506      B-IDA    D-Other muitilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                       24      481        754      785      c - IMPG - Short-term
Net flows                                  205     777        458      721
Interest payments                           76     667        728      845
Net transfers                              130     109       -270      -124
Development Economics and EASPR                                                                                   8125100
- 115 -






MAP SECTION






IE RD 30903RI
Andaman    5 < /  f f . i>,, X;  *--  -   -   -  g     PHItIPP.IWES           -                       O  SEIE:EDCITESANDTOWNS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0SELCED MESAND OWN
Sea  r / ( : [ha~~~Glfln of                                                                                                      0   45agL-        -      PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
9~ ~~~~~~~~~~Taln -OCEAN   --..S  u<                                                           r     4             .:                   PROVINCE BOUNDAR ES
,   2  A   t   .  .             o   :    -   -   '     '       1\   S'i't  >   ''               PROY  NCES:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROAN ES
vfl  T   r               -                ,   p s          :   cr   I   K    i?  -            2  SUMATERA UTARA   12  SAWA TENGAH   23  SULAWE31 UTARA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UM TER    UT~  3  JA A  TNrA   2
s  vs  >.                           HX       rw    \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ,/,_^                RIAUARCHIPELAGC'    13 G  YOGYAKARTA   23 EULAWES TENGAH~~~:AAU RCHPEAGO  1 JAA IMU  2 SU-NESITEGA
~~~ Gt g   '.       t    A    Y    S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BRUNEI   -.        -                             4 JAMATRBILAT    NSBAL TNGGARABAEAT 27 SULAWESITENGGARA
i~~~~~~ Y                                        c ^                    AB5d  9 l          
.    -  16  /'W<,;;,    17S   EW -' EAST TIMOR - X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUAER 5LAAN~8TMO               2 ~A'K
.  .   X   i                                          D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -- SU+O<TS' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C lebes mc  aLA rafuNG  9e KAMNA     A T 3 INJY   AA
<  1S i  i  =-    / N  D I A  N    O  C  EA   N  0           D                        <            s^-4</<X<               eir A!LN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BN A-ELfUG   0 AUANANTEGA   3 RANJAA ENA
u   W    |  w  .  F  1t ' 2?3    3  =z K   '   ;                       N tl+g>.    gX                    'JcsC   Gulf  of     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
5n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bw .                                                       Se jt                             0BNTE ICD  roMATA 3t1TA  32A,le  RANJ JAY <,.  ciMn  R-
_   h*;oleutidenzl.sl.dn"vl OrrihdTd"B"n.hn TGR-a /4 <23
.       '     '   IL1P          at                                            W R ' <             A   U   S   T R   A   L   I   A  .7



