Report No. PID9867
Project Name                     Indonesia-Provincial Health II
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Population; Health & Nutrition Adjustment
Project ID                       IDPE49539
Borrower(s)                      GOI
Implementing Agency
Address
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Address: Jln. H.R. Rasuna Said Kav. X5, 4-9
Block B, 8th floor
Jakarta
Contact Person: Dr. Setiawan Soeparan
Tel: 522-3106
Fax: 520-1588
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 15, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The government reorganization now underway in Indonesia brings new
possibilities and risks for a health sector which was overstretched in the
pre-crisis period and was further disrupted during the economic crisis of
the late 1990s. The gains potentially associated with decentralization
and related government restructuring steps can be seen in aspects of
system performance in the three provinces. North Sumatra, West Java, and
Banten, the project's focal provinces, have each recorded health
achievements but also experienced persistent problems:Health indicators
have improved since the mid 1980s. Nevertheless, health status remains
unsatisfactory, with Infant Mortality Rates (IMRs) thought to be around 40
deaths per thousand live births in North Sumatra and 56 in West Java and
Banten. The poor in these provinces are especially vulnerable to
malnutrition, maternal morbidity and mortality, diarrhea, respiratory
infections, various communicable diseases, and other health risks.
Meanwhile, prevalence of non-communicable diseases is rising in these
areas.Province-wise differences in health status and prospects reflect
differences in poverty incidence.   Just over 20t of North Sumatera's 11.6
million people, and West Java's then 42.4 million population (including
Banten's 7.9 million), were classified as poor in 1999. But this ratio
differed within each province. In West Java, for example, the percentage
of poor families varied from 6t in Bandung District to 35t in Karawang
District. Health risks within these provinces follow the same
inter-district pattern. Although disease risks are substantial,
utilization of government health facilities has remained low on average,
while displaying sharp differences by income group. For example, the
835,000 people in North Sumatera covered by ASKES, the civil service
health insurance scheme, visited government facilities 1.8 times per year
in 1999, roughly six times the 0.3 rate for the entire population. The



visit rate in West Java was twice that of North Sumatera, but still quite
low. Moreover, utilization of health centers plunged in each province
during the economic crisis--the decline in West Java amounted to 309.
Hospital bed occupancy rates fell as well.None of these provinces has been
satisfied with the performance of the health component, JPS-BK, of the
country's crisis-period Social Safety Net intervention. The low coverage,
less than 309, of intended beneficiaries in the three provinces is
attributable to ineffective targeting mechanisms, poor promotion efforts,
and inflexible program guidelines and procedures.Low visit rates, limited
program coverage and other indications of low demand in these provinces
can be traced to various disincentives faced by clients. These include
unpredictable drug supplies and informal visit charges--in North Sumatra,
the latter can be as high as five times the official fee. Other demand
inhibiting factors relate to provider behavior, e.g., a preoccupation with
private work opportunities, open-ended task assignments and duties which
make performance harder to evaluate, and accountability arrangements which
are not responsive to local needs and so forth. As has been the case
generally, the health systems in these provinces have been underfunded
chronically and also subject to resource misallocation. For instance,
government health outlays per capita in 1999/2000 in North Sumatra
amounted to only $US1-2, with sharp differentials persisting in per capita
spending between districts, and public hospitals, despite low efficiency
indicators, absorbing large budget shares. Per capita government spending
in West Java was even lower, amounting to 60% of that in North Sumatra.
Field reports confirm that only limited resources reach primary care
facilities--in North Sumatra, it appears that most of the "standard" 18
health center programs are not being implemented. Misallocation is also
evident in the concentration of government health staff in metropolitan
areas, e.g., Bandung, Medan, and districts around Jakarta.System
organization and capacity in these provinces are problematic. Facilities
are often overendowed with staff with inadequate skills who are accustomed
to delivering services from standard packages designed in Jakarta.
Responsibilities are dispersed over a number of offices and agencies, with
district planning units lacking experience in priority setting, and
program design and evaluation. Weak, often non-functioning health
information systems have made planning and impact assessment very
difficult. Meanwhile, the mandated consolidation of health administration
units may require difficult adjustments. In West Java, for example, the
new province-level Dinas (local government health office) may not be able
to absorb all 340 employees of the Kanwil, the provincial office of the
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW), when they are "merged" with
the 255 health staff in the predecessor Dinas.These and related problems
characterize a primary health care system which experienced increasing
performance difficulties in the early 1990s. (These issues are discussed
in "Health Strategy in a Post Crisis, Decentralizing Indonesia," Report
No. 21318-IND.) GOI was aware of sectoral problems and introduced a number
of corrective steps as well as alternative management, delivery, and
financing arrangements. But most of these measures were put on hold
during 1997-2000 when containing the health effects of the crisis became
MOHSW's policy focus. Crisis-period and surviving pre-crisis health
initiatives have now been overtaken by a wide ranging restructuring of
Indonesia's government. Combining decentralization and other policy
steps, this reorganization represents a good opportunity to address
health system problems and to improve health services in provinces like
North Sumatera, West Java, and Banten. Specifically, decentralization and
- 2 -



related steps can lead to conditions in which providers have the
incentives, skills, supervision, material support, and discretionary
authority needed to offer high quality, well targeted services, and
clients have the information, financial means, and bargaining power
required to elicit appropriate responses. But such an outcome is by no
means assured. For one thing, many of the policy instruments developed in
the last 30 years have become inapplicable. On the other hand, the
"source" material for new instruments, i.e., Laws 22 and 25 and the other
measures which form the reorganization package, were not prepared with
health system needs in mind. Also, experience elsewhere suggests that
decentralization poses various risks to health service continuity and
sustainability. For example, this step in the Philippines, Colombia and
several other Latin American countries brought significant transition
problems, complaints about technical oversight in health matters, and
potentially risky ambiguity about public health
responsibilities.Government strategyA multi-element approach has been
developed in response to challenges and opportunities associated with
decentralization, First, MOHSW is making the adjustments and developing
the policy instruments needed for it to function as the indispensable lead
agency within a decentralized health sector. During and after
decentralization, MOHSW's key responsibilities are to include 1)
developing and sustaining a sectoral vision, translating this into a
national priorities, expected roles, and benchmarks, and building
coalitions to pursue this agenda, 2) acting as an information clearing
house and analytical body as regards key issues of health status and
system performance, 3) pursuing equity in health financing, including
ensuring affordability and adequate funding of basic services and
essential drugs for the poor and disadvantaged, 4) enhancing the quality
of health services and public health programs through effective regulation
including developing systems for market approval, conducting quality
assurance, licensing of professionals, and inspection of facilities, and
4) monitoring drug and food safety and communicable disease trends,
alerting provinces about risks and outbreaks, and ensuring funding for
prevention and surveillance. MOHSW recognizes that it will not be able to
implement its new agenda without changes in an organizational culture seen
by senior policy makers as overly bureaucratic and incompatible with new
responsibilities. The ministry has set the goal of becoming a learning
organization, i.e. one adept at acquiring, creating, and disseminating
knowledge and adapting its policy designs and so forth to reflect what has
been learned. The agenda of units within MOHSW is changing as well. For
example, the Directorates General (DGs) for Communicable Diseases, Health
Research, and Drug and Food Control are modifying their institutional
missions and modus operandi, with the latter becoming an autonomous agency
outside MOHSW. A new DG for pharmaceutical services has been created.
Meanwhile, MOHSW is establishing a special Decentralization Unit with a
mandate to guide the ministry and sector through the many challenges
entailed in decentralization. Along with these and other organizational
changes, MOHSW is developing the instruments it needs to carry out its
emerging mandate. One new policy tool would provide resources to poor
districts which are reorienting and redesigning health interventions to
better respond to the needs of low income households. These
poverty-health grants, possibly supplemented by locally financed
"co-payments," would fund district or cross-district, e.g., province-level
proposals relating to improving the health of the poor. MOHSW plans to
use these and other policy instruments to further strengthen its ongoing
-3 -



support to decentralization at the province and district levels. In this
regard, province-level projects represent a useful component in MOHSW's
decentralization strategy. The First Provincial Health Project (PHP I,
effective in August 2001), provided a template for tackling health
decentralization within sub-national operational frameworks. An analogous
7-province ADB-funded project was negotiated in November 2000. The
Credit/Loan discussed in this PAD would support a further elaboration of
this element in MOHSW's strategy. Provinces and constituent districts
comprise effective implementation arenas--the scale and range of
activities are more manageable than national scope projects, but large
enough to tackle new province and district level responsibilities, for
fine tuning MOHSW's new roles.
2. Objectives
The project's goals are, first, to bring about effective health sector
decentralization in the provinces of North Sumatera and West Java, and
Banten. The challenge is to initiate key sector reforms and put health
financing on a firm footing, while protecting health services which are
essential for the poor and the public at large during a period of
government restructuring. The second objective is to help MOHSW carry out
its roles in a decentralized system. These responsibilities encompass
providing sectoral vision and leadership, analysis and policy follow up of
the health needs of the poor and risks to the public at large, advocacy of
best practices and standards, and support for local initiative.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's contribution is seen in both content and process dimensions.
The Bank has been a leader in Indonesia in calling attention to the health
development opportunities and risks inherent in decentralization and
possible policy responses. It has done this by drawing on its AAA work
and project experience in Indonesia, along with its knowledge base on
health sector decentralization and policy design in other countries. The
now emulated PHP approach is grounded in a widely discussed health
strategy note (Report No. 21319-Ind) which focused on policy choices in
the post-crisis period, and in related work on health spending. PHP II
also reflects project level experiences, e.g., supervision and lending
development missions, and a cumulative view of a centrally run system that
was faltering well before the economic crisis. Further contributions of
the Bank include inputs from efforts to monitor decentralization issues
across sectors, and lessons on improving accountability drawn from
preparation and supervision of SSNAL. As with PHP I, the Bank's ability
to tap cross-country expertise has contributed to PHP II's preparation.
4. Description
Like PHP I, this Credit/Loan consists of two components, one addressing
health needs and issues in specific districts and provinces, and the
second centering mainly on responsibilities and functions of MOHSW. PHP
II's elements build on and adjust those of its predecessor, reflecting
differences in provincial and district settings, as well as MOHSW's
evolving thinking about health goals and its own role. A. Districts and
ProvincesThe project would proceed in two phases. Phase 1 (2001-2003)
would be used to prepare for the district-based health investments which
are the central feature of Phase 2. Activities during 2001-2003 would
facilitate decentralization and health reform (components Al and A2).
During Phase 2 (2004-2006), PHP II would fund district health improvement
- 4 -



and reform proposals which have benefited from capacity building
activities, technical support and quality assurance mechanisms initiated
during Phase l.Component Al: Managing DecentralizationDuring Phase 1 of
the project, North Sumatera, and Banten would use task forces and other
means to build capacity to reform the sector through studies, pilots,
training, and policy development. Capacity building efforts would aim at
supporting the new tasks and functions of the District Health Office (DHO)
in line with the authority and responsibilities of the districts according
to Law No. 22. The DHO would play a central role in planning, budgeting,
mobilizing resources and implementing services. In the planning process,
the DHO would determine priority health services based on local problems
and available resources. Its primary task would be assuring the delivery
of public goods to the entire population while targeting a basic health
service package towards the poor.During Phase 1 and continuing in Phase 2,
this component would also strengthen district and province level human
resources. This would include retraining some of the staff working at the
province and district health offices, the hospitals and also the health
centers. In this regard, North Sumatera and West Java plan to strengthen
their training institutions including the local faculties of Public
Health. Funds would be allocated for staff to participate in short
courses and masters and doctorate programs. Participating institutions
would be expected to assist the provincial and district governments by
organizing training programs, conducting research and policy analysis, and
providing technical assistance as requested. In this preparatory period,
task forces would address institutional and health sector issues and
assist in building district implementation capacity, including upgrading
health information systems.Component A2: Resource MobilizationOperating on
their own or through joint task forces, DHOs would explore ways of meeting
budget needs. This would include making the case for adequate allocations
from the District budget, and using user fees whenever the population has
the ability to pay for their treatment costs. By recovering the costs for
curative care, government funds can be focused on public health programs
and the provision of care for the poor.North Sumatera and West Java plan
to turn hospitals and health centers in their areas into district
enterprises, contracted to deliver public health programs. Facilities
would propose annual budgets to be approved by the local government and
the DPRD. Revenue would be retained, with excess revenue over the planned
budget (and agreed profit share) transferred to the local government.
Options to contract out functions or contract inservices to third party
payers would be tried. Another option would be to collaborate with
private hospitals to share resources such as personnel and equipment, and
to establish a network of providers to implement government health
programs.Another approach to be tested in North Sumatera involves
government payment of services for the poor on a capitation basis.
Prepayment systems such as JPKM would be reversed. Instead of focusing on
the poor, JPKM would start by targeting the better off, and when
sufficient numbers were enrolled, the poor would be included with premiums
paid by the government. Without JPKM, an option would be to channel
government subsidy for the poor directly to service providers based on the
premises that the principles of risk pooling and the law of large numbers
were observed. The needed steps to develop the system would occur during
Phase 1 of the project, while trials, evaluation, and strengthening of the
system would be the main interventions during Phase 2.West Java would
pilot a managed care system involving several health insurance companies
and government payment of insurance premiums to cover catastrophic
- 5-



conditions for poor people. West Java is also considering how to work
with other provinces in Java in developing viable health insurance
coverage.Component A3: District Funding AllocationsStarting in 2003 (2004
in Banten), Credit/Bank resources would be channeled to districts through
block allocations with the aim of raising government health spending to
levels which are sustainable during the medium term. Joint Health
Councils (JHCs) made up of district and Civil Society representatives in
North Sumatera and West Java would take on the task of setting block
allocation ceilings for individual districts for each year during
2003-2006. The JHCs would draw on updated estimates of likely overall
district expenditure levels (routine and development), and would base
their calculations on predicted levels of sustainable health spending
assuming government health spending levels equal to at least 42,000 per
capita in 2001 prices or a 15% health share of district budgets are
attained. JHCs would base their decisions on other on other information
as well, including their assessment of the likely effectiveness of the
level and mix of government health spending financed through non-project
means. The locally financed portion of the district budget is treated as
counterpart funding (hence the large size of this component). Based on
these ceilings, district teams would then prepare four year health
improvement frameworks, updated annually, as well as detailed proposals
for the following 12 months. Draft proposals would reflect poverty and
epidemiological characteristics, service use patterns, local health
priorities and capacities. Performance indicators and notional budgets,
and procurement and financial management plans would be required elements
in these proposals. The plans would focus on improving the coverage and
quality of public health services for the entire population, and curative
care for the poor. The drafts would be evaluated by Technical Review
Teams, and then reviewed by the JHCs and the Association/Bank.Component
A4: Project ManagementProject management units would be established at the
province and district levels. Funds would be allocated to support
consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops, project
management training and project supervision.B. The CenterAs mentioned,
MOHSW's approach to decentralization aims at enhancing the distinctive
contributions each government level can best make in the health system.
The central component of PHP II focuses on helping MOHSW develop the
policy instruments needed to carry out its responsibilities in a
decentralized health system. Activities within this component will
complement those in planned or ongoing within the central component of PHP
I. Bi. Institutional DevelopmentThe goal of this sub-component is to
support MOHSW's sector leadership role within a decentralized system. To
this end, PHP II would assist in establishing a small functional
decentralization unit reporting to the Minister and headed by an Echelon I
official. The unit is needed to help MOHSW respond consistently and
promptly to the issues which are arising with decentralization. For
instance, provinces and districts are considering how to organize
themselves and focus their attention and resources. Meanwhile within GOI
and at other government levels, the economic and political environment for
health and other sectors is more competitive. MOHSW is reorganizing
itself--this could limit its leadership and support activities unless it
takes suitable steps. Within this context, MOHSW expects the
Decentralization Unit to take on facilitative, coordinating, and
analytical responsibilities. Its tasks would include: monitoring
decentralization by region and level; managing the National Health Grants
process; facilitating MOHSW's adjustment to decentralized rules and
- 6 -



responsibilities; advising on existing and proposed decentralization
legislation; and suggesting improvements in the formula and process for
General Block Grants (DAUs).The main responsibility assigned to the
Decentralization Unit, i.e., helping MOHSW assume its leadership role,
will require adjustments in the Ministry's skill mix and work culture. In
this regard, PHP II would include the resources required to develop MOHSW
into a learning organization. The main areas to be addressed would be:
systematic problem solving, experimentation with new approaches, learning
from the experiences and best practices of others, and transferring
knowledge quickly and efficiently throughout the organization. Attention
would be given to retraining staff who are assigned to technical jobs
after years in administration. Project funds would be used to recruit
technical assistance teams, develop instruments and modules, and sponsor
or conduct training, workshops, and seminars.B2. Strengthening
Communicable Disease ControlThe project will help to transform the
existing Directorate General (DG) for Communicable Disease Control (PPM)
into a specialized central agency within MOHSW. To this end, PHP II would
support the adaptation in West Java and North Sumatera of the surveillance
system currently being implemented in 6 other provinces with ADB support.
This approach strengthens epidemiological surveillance at each level and
develops cross-level networking. The Epidemiological Surveillance Team
(EST) would support district, provincial and central level management with
data analysis, providing information on vulnerable areas, and risk factors
or other indicators of health problems or diseases. PHP II would also
assist in the strengthening referral and laboratory facilities for
infectious diseases to back up improved province and district level
surveillance and response efforts. The Sulianti Saroso Infectious
Diseases Hospital would be developed into a center of excellence for
infectious diseases case management and laboratory confirmations and the
Technical Environment Health Laboratories (BTKLs) in Medan and Jakarta
would become regional reference facilities.B3. Assuring Equity in Service
ProvisionPHP II would help GOI carry out its distinctive responsibilities
as regards the health of the poor.    Project resources would fund National
Health Grants to help reorient district health systems, provide cost
effective public health programs, and cofinance catastrophic care for the
very poor. Funds would be directed to roughly 20 districts which are poor
and satisfy other criteria. This sub-component would test an instrument
which is seen as playing an important role in attaining national health
goals. Based on lessons from PHP II, MOHSW expects to ask MOF to support
a large scale grants program using a special allocation channel (DAK),
drawing on national and international donor funding. Provision of grants
within PHP II would be guided by transparent eligibility criteria and
conditions. For example, access to funds would be restricted to a limited
number of most seriously vulnerable districts. To obtain grants, district
officials individually or as a group would prepare proposals describing
the size and health needs of the poor population and intended policy
responses. Submissions would be judged by a designated review team.
Suggested evaluation criteria include relevance of objectives, suitability
of design and implementation mechanisms, affordability and sustainability
of what is proposed, and local capacity. Apart from the grants
themselves, PHP II would provide resources to support proposal preparation
as well as activities which contribute to refocusing the health system in
participating districts.B4. Assessing Health Research Needs, Capacities,
and Options (Central)PHP II would support a broad analysis of health
research requirements and options within a decentralized system. Research
-7 -



needs would be assessed first. The review team would then evaluate the
capacity of the existing National Institute of Health Research and
Development (NIHRD) before discussing the modalities and alternative
available to improve the outflow and use of high quality research
findings. The review team for this 3 month exercise would include
international and domestic consultants as well as NIHRD staff. The team
would be expected to elicit feedback on findings in a number of seminars
and workshops. A follow up plan of action would be included in the team's
output. B5. Strengthening Food and Drug Control (POM)GOI has converted
the DG POM into an autonomous agency reporting to the President, under the
coordination of MOHSW.    PHP II would assist in transforming the agency
into a professional unit whose operations were based on scientific, risk
management principles. PHP II would strengthen POM's capacity in respect
of assessing and then enhancing the inspection systems which comprise core
activities. This would involve hiring a consultant team made up of
international and domestic experts. The project would also fund
assessment mechanisms to assure that drug producers and wholesale and
retail distributors are accountable to the public. Helping POM evolve
into a learning organization would also be supported by PHP II. A
consultant team of international and domestic experts would assess needs
and assist in implementing an alternative approach. As part of this
component, local and overseas training would be financed as well.B6.
Project ManagementA coordinating unit for PHP II overall would be
established at the central level. Funds would be allocated to support
consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops, project
management training and project supervision. During Phase 1 of the
project, this unit would coordinate proposal preparation for the new
Banten province which includes undertaking a situation analysis and a
detailed proposal covering specific activities. Funds would be allocated
to recruit consultants, and conduct workshops. Project implementation in
Banten would start during Phase 2 (2004). Once Banten's proposal is
approved, funds for implementation would be channeled through the same
mechanisms agreed for the other two provinces. In addition to Managing
Decentralization (Al), Resource Mobilization (A2), funds would be
allocated to finance district specific proposals to be reviewed by
Banten's TRT and JHC. The Research UnitThe CPCU would establish an
independent research capacity to conduct project monitoring and evaluation
activities. The unit would conduct baseline, midterm and final surveys;
and conduct various tracking studies to assess the impact of
implementation of new management and service delivery policies formulated
by the districts/cities, the provinces and the center. Findings of the
research unit would be fed back regularly to the various implementing
units. University-based research centers as well as private firms would
be invited to submit expressions of interest.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 895.81
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented in phases in the provinces of North
Sumatera, West Java, and Banten and centrally in the Ministry of Health
over five and a half years. The activities to be implemented during Phase
I (FY01-FY03) at the district, provincial and central level have been
reviewed at Appraisal. Using capacity and institutions established during
- 8 -



Phase I, the implementation of Phase 2 (FY03-06) would be based on plans
developed and approved annually but within a "rolling" four year
framework.
7. Sustainability
A key PHP II goal is to promote sustainability at adequate levels in
health funding. Provinces and districts have shown their commitment to
this goal by providing letters stating their willingness to participate in
the project and to repay resources obtained on Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(SLA) basis once terms and conditions have been agreed with MOF. PHP II
activities would be financed initially through traditional funding
channels pending the find terms and conditions are in place. As regards
the level and sustainability of funding, the Joint Health Councils would
derive District Funding Allocation ceilings according to criteria and
assumptions acceptable to and reviewed by the Association/Bank. In light
of these ceilings allocations during 2003-2006 would be as specified by
the JHCs. JHCs would base their calculations in part on predicted levels
of sustainable health spending, assuming that, government health spending
levels reach at least Rupiah 42,000 per capita in 2001 prices or a health
budget share of 15t or higher is attained by 2006.    JHCs would also review
the levels and allocations of government health spending financed through
non-project means. Meanwhile, policy makers in North Sumatera, West
Java, and Banten would set out anticipated levels of central and local
government support as well as yearly targets for revenue mobilization,
with component A.2 dedicated to developing the revenue generation
instruments needed to complement and replace IDA funding.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
World Bank assistance to Indonesia's health sector has been marked by an
increasing focus on local conditions and circumstances. Up to the early
1990s, Bank-assisted health projects helped extend the established,
centrally-guided delivery system. However, unsatisfactory (health
manpower, Loan 2542-IND) and disappointing (nutrition and community
health, Loan 2636-IND) project performance led to greater emphasis on
decentralized management, budgeting and planning, and to innovations in
service delivery, financing and training. The Third Health Project, which
closed in 1996, included local resource mobilization and a larger
provincial planning and budgeting role. The Third Community Health and
Nutrition Project (Loan 3550-IND, closed 3/31/2001) supported local level
service, training, and quality assurance innovations. The Safe Motherhood
Project (Loan 4207-IND) is developing locally suitable demand and supply
side improvements in reproductive health care in several provinces. The
Fourth Health Project (Loan 3905-IND, closed 3/31/2001)Addressing low
health center service quality, HP IV developed and implemented a quality
assurance (QA) approach which establishes care standards, and uses peer
review to assess compliance. These facility level interventions have been
effective in altering provider behavior, but have not been distilled into
a statement of principles and responsibilities, e.g., a creed in which QA
is a key promise to the public. Furthermore, these achievements may not
be sustainable in of themselves because QA has been addressed apart from
other needed changes, e.g., correcting incentives which encourage
providers to engage in private practice, and ensuring funding from local
resources. Nor was the design linked to a strategy which brings health
education, worker and consumer incentives, performance assessment
mechanisms and other elements into play simultaneously to get high quality
-9-



services to the clients.The Fifth Health Project (HP V, Loan 4373-IND)HP V
aims to improve the distribution, utilization and quality of the health
work force. HP V anticipated GOI's decentralization initiatives in its
focus on improving the capacity of province and district health staff, and
introducing methods for workload assessment, performance review, and
service quality assurance. The project also encourages piloting of
innovations in staff deployment and financial autonomy of health
facilities. However, the initial design did not encompass local
government involvement and district level service reform. The planning
framework of the proposed project addresses these issues and provides a
strong foundation for eliciting local commitment.Safe Motherhood Project
(Loan 4207-IND)This project has used different instruments to establish
attractive and sustainable work conditions for village midwives, who are
key providers of services potentially beneficial to poor women. One of
the measures piloted has been performance contracts, which have been shown
to be effective in improving the quantity and quality of services reaching
poor clients. The project has also used different means to promote the
acceptance of these front line providers in local communities. For
example, it has shown that use of coupons for poor households can be
effective in generating service demand and empowering poor clients. These
achievements are timely and relevant to challenges faced by budget
constrained districts which through Law 22, are responsible for services
intended for the poor. PHP I and II can incorporate these and other
design lessons from this project.West Java Basic Education (WJBE, Loan
4308-IND)   After nearly three years of implementation, results have been
below expectations, although performance improved recently thanks to a
major restructuring effort. Problems in first two years were related to
the economic crisis, but were also due to design factors. For one thing,
this was a "decentralized" project in the limited, pre-Law 22 sense. The
national ministry provided little encouragement for WJBE's institutional
goals and continued to operate in traditional prescriptive inflexible,
fashion. Nor was there a province-level counter-point--the province has
functioned as a deconcentrated unit of the central ministry. Also, the
project financed extensive training and related capacity building
activities targeting district and facility level decision makers, opinion
leaders, and providers. But results have been disappointing. Bank
reviews have attributed this to resources being spread thinly over many
activities. It seems likely as well that training was not rooted in an
agreed decentralization framework involving new roles, accountabilities,
and incentives. Other lessons include delays and irregularities which
emerged in monitoring and evaluation and in procurement and financial
management. The latter lacked clearly defined organization,
responsibilities, and reporting arrangements. Finally, Bank reviews have
commented that perceived project benefits may be too small to elicit
adequate local ownership and follow through. The PHP II design takes
account of these difficulties.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is unlikely to result in significant
environmental impacts although those effects which occur are likely to be
positive. Such impacts would derive from environmental health components
which some districts may include as part of their service delivery plans.
In addition, some health promotion activities should also contribute to
- 10 -



environmental improvement. In order to reduce possible adverse
environmental effects the District Funding Allocations Operational Manual
would specify the processes, procedures, and criteria which would be
applied to district funding proposals to ensure that possible negative
impacts on the environment had been identified and addressed.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Samuel S. Lieberman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (62-21) 529-93053
Fax:   (62-21) 529-93111
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 11 -



