Document Of
The World Bank
FOl OMCIL USE ONLY
Rport NoP-4226MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
0F THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22 MILLION
TO THE OFFICE FOR PORT OPERATIONS (ODEP)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
PORT PROJECT: THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
February 3, 1986
s doe_at b  a r_elded digrib    ad may be und by re_ipmts _Iy in the pWéf«oe ef
thur .daI dJdls _cmmu my _t odtwiu be disdooed wltbo  Wd  Bmlc  w_wzatioo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       = Dirham (DE)
1 Dirham (DE)                       = US$0.0958
1 US Dollar (US$)                   = DB 10.44
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE         =       Banque Nationale de Développement Economique
DPCM          =      Directorate of the Port of Casablanca and
Mohammedia
ITPA         =       Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Program
GDSP         =       General Directorate of Secondary Ports
MPW           =      Ministry of Public Works (Ministère de
l'Equipement, de la Formation des Cadres et de
la Formation Professionnelle)
MOT           =      Ministry of Transport
OCP          =       Office Chérifien de Phosphates
ODEP         =       Office d'Exploitation des Ports (Office for
Port Operations)
ONCF         =       Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONICL         =      Office National de l'Import et de la
Commercialisation des Légumes
ONT           =      Office National du Transport
PERL         =       Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan
RAPC         =       Régie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca
SCRA         =       Société Chérifienne de Remorquage et
d'Assistance
(This report uses the acronyms of the French titles in those cases where the
Moroccan practice is to refer to the agency in question by its acronyms.)



FOI OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT PROJECT: THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA ANID MOHANEDIA
LOAN AN1D PROJECT SUMKARY
Borro er:             Office for Port Operations (ODEP).
Guarantor:            Kingdr' of Morocco.
Amount:               US$22 million equivalent.
Terus:                20 yeara, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable intereat rate.  ODEP  ould bear the foreigo
exchange and interest rate riaka.
Proiect Description: The project is designed to iuprove the operational
performance of the country's major port and. through its
technical assistance component, to help integrate port
activities into the country's effort to promote eporta
and to ipmrove the management and financial viability cf
the mmjor public enterprise in the port sector. The Dank
ioan vould finance: rebabilitation of port infrastructure
in the port of Casablanca; replacement of vorkshop
equiprent to repair cargo handling equipment; a
heavy-lifting crane. concrete mixer and transport
equipment for the maintenance of the nev breakwater at
Mohamiedia; and technical assistance for project
engineering, construction supervision, port operations
and managment. The project vould improve operating
conditions and maintenanee in the Ports of Casablanca and
Nobauedia.  It would, in addition, strengthen port
organization and management. There are no apecial
technical or enviroruental riaka associated vith the
project. Institutional risks are acceptable given the
proposed technical assistance progra.
Estimated Costa:                      Local*       Foreizn         Total
-   US$ Million 
Rebabilitation                         10.1           10.6          20.7
Equipment                               2.7            3.7           6.4
Techoical assistance                     .9            2.2           3.1
Total Base Cost                    13.7          16.5           30.2
Contingencies:
Physical                              1.8            2.2           4.0
Price                                 3.5            3.3           6.8
Total                               5.3           5.5           10.8
Total Project Cost                 19.0           22.0          41.0
* Including taxes and customs duties of about US$10.0 million equivalent.
This dofment bas    o resnsd dimanbuth and may be used br rfpits orld in the pmafodcmc o
thei offiia due. lIts eootents may not otherwise be disdosod without Worid Ban authorization.



- si -
FinancinR Plan:                       Local        Foreign         Total
- US$ Million
IBRD Loan                         -             22.0          22.0
ODEP                              19.0           -            19.0
Total                           19.0          22.0          41.0
Estimated Diabursements:                        US$ million
FY86     FY87     FY88     FY89      FY90     FY9l
Annual                   1.4       4.8      5.3      5.5      3.5       1.5
Cumulative               1.4       6.2     11.5     17.0     20.5      22.0
Economic Rate of Return:       Over 30 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report no. 5543-MOR dated December 20, 1985.
No. 18692 - Morocco.
No. 18693 - Casablanca Port Layout.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUWALENT TO US2 MILLON
TO THE OFFICE FOR PORT OPERATIONS (ODEP)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A PORT PROJECT: THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHEA4MEDLA
1.       I submit the folloving report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Office for Port Operations (ODEP) with the guarantee of Kingdom of
Morocco for the equivalent of US$22.0 million, including US$1.0 million
equivalent in retroactive financing, to help finance a Port project. The lan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - TIEE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983.  Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-MOR) vas distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economie
mission on financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report (No. 4957-MOR) was issued on December 12, 1984. The folloving section
reflects the f indings of an economic updating mission that vent to Morocco in
July 1984 to prepare a paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment
Policies and Prospects", for presentation to a meeting of the Consultative
Group for Morocco in Paris on January 9-11, 1985. Data and analysis have been
updated to reflect the findings of the ITPA II appraisal mission that visited
Morocco in March 1985. Country data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       During nearly two decades after Independence in 1956, Morocco
followed relatively conservative economic policies. Cautious external
borrovings supplemented a veak savings effort to permit only a slow rise in
investment, so that the economy grew only at about 4 percent per annum.
Primary products - principally phosphates - accounted for 90 percent of
merchandise exports. During the mid-1970s, after a sudden increase in
phosphate prices, Morocco launched an ambitious public investment program
which boosted GDP growth to 7.5 percent annually during the period 1973-77.
The phosphate boom, however, began subsiding as early as mid-1975. Meanwhile,
the petroleum import bill, which had quadrupled in 1974, continued to place
considerable pressure on the balance of payments, and the current account
deficit reached 16.5 percent of GDP in 1977. Domestically, the large public
investment program and increased defense expenditures in the Western Sahara
caused the treasury deficit to rise to 15.8 percent of GDP in 1977. Morocco
resorted to considerable foreign borrovings to finance these deficits.



- 2 -
4.       To redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation, the
Moroccan Government introduced a three-year stabilization program in 1978
centered on reductions in public sector outlays and stricter import controls.
These reforms vere only partially successful. They did little to stimulate
exports. The exchange rate was kept overvalued and trade barriers vere
raised.  They did not adequately tackle the excessive budgetary exposure and
made inadequate attempts to increase the efficiency of resource use, The
agricultural sector failed to grow, while value-added in manufacturing
declined. Meanwhile, public investment vas not restrained; a number of
costly, poorly-targetted social programs were expanded and investment in
infrastructure was undertaken often well ahead of need. Efforts to stabilize
the economy were compromised by severe external shocks - most notably the 1979
oil price increase, the rise in international interest rates, the
international recession which reduced phosphate earnings and workers'
remittances, and the prolonged drought. Continued internal pressure to
provide social services and affordable basic foodstuffs to a rapidly growing
population put considerable strains on a budget already stretched by the need
to finance expenditures in the Sahara. The 1981-85 Development Plan aimed at
an ambitious 6.5 percent per annum growth rate in GDP. Notvithstanding the
difficulties confronting the economy, Morocco did not appear villing to
introduce a comprehensive program of policy measures which could have
confronted the economic crisis. The shortcomings in the adjustment
performance caused the IMF to convert a three-year EFF into a one-year Stand
By Arrangement in 1982 and prevented the Bank from proceeding with a SAL at
that time.
Rcent Economie Developments
5.       By 1983 it had become clear that the Governnent's room to maneuver
was becoming very restricted by debt service payment requirements. In 1982
external public long-term debt (excluding military debt) had risen to about
two-thirds of GDP and 235 percent of exports of goods and services while the
debt service ratio reached 35 percent. Morocco was confronted with the
prospect of a very large external payments gap for 1983. With exchange
reserves virtually depleted and debt service rising, the Government imposed
emergency import controls and budgetary cutbacks in early 1983.  In November
1983 the Government entered into an 18-month standby agreement with the IMF
(SDR 300 million, or 98 percent of quota) supporting a stabilization program
which included fiscal and credit restraints and a flexible exchange rate
policy. Shortly thereafter, official creditors agreed to reschedule external
debt interest and principal payments coming due between September 1, 1983 and
December 1984, as vell as arrears as of August 31, 1983.  Commercial bank
creditors agreed in principle to provide comparable relief on amortization.
The total amount of debt relief obtained in 1983-84 under these agreements was
estimated at more than $2 billion (including $575 million of relief on
military debt). In November 1983, a Donors' meeting sponsored by the IMF,
generated pledges of about $500 million of exceptional balance-of-payments
assistance for 1983-84. To meet its fiscal targets the Government restricted
public service recruitment and salary increases, raised the prices of
electricity, water, petroleum products and subsidized foodstuffs (by between



-3-
17 percent and 60 percent), and cut capital outlays by one third. At the same
tlime, it began a significant adjustment effort supported by the Bank, vith the
January 1984 Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA I)
(No. 2377-MOR), to improve its balance of payments situation with a package of
measures to restructure its trade regime. This included a reduction in import
taxation, an easing of quantitative restrictions, and a reduction in export
licensing. Following a Financial Sector Study conducted by the Bank in 1984
(4957-M0R), the Government extended these reforms to the Financial Sector with
the objective of raising domestic resources and improving resource
allocation. Greater flexibility vas introduced in setting interest rates,
measures were designed to increase competition among banks, and taxation
reforms to benefit the financial sector were implemented.
6.       As a result of the policies adopted since 1983, macroeconomic
balances improved. The economy's resource gap shrank from 13 percent of GD?
in 1982 to 8 percent in 1984 (at constant 1980 prices). This vas achieved
through a significant decline in the GDP share of consumption and investment
relative to their high levels earlier in the 1980s. Meanwhile, import growth
has been restrained by appropriate demand management and by the depreciation
of the exchange rate, while the share of exports and groass domestic savings
increased substantially. The Government budget deficit was reduced from 12
percent of GDP in 1982 to about 7 percent in 1984 (8 percent before taking
into account the impact of external debt rescheduling on interest payments).
Although the improvement stemmed chiefly from a sharp reduction in investment
outlays, there was also a significant sloving down in the rate of growth of
current expenditures. As was to be expected, the rate of GDP growth has been
lov <a little over 2 percent a.a.), reflecting the impact of stabilization
policies on consumption and investment demand, along with the effect of
drought on agricultural sector incomes in both 1983 and 1984. A good harvest
is expected to help boost the grovth rate to about 4 percent in 1985.
7.       The current account of the balance of payments improved considerably,
reflecting both the better resource balance of the economy and the impact of
the debt relief obtained by Morocco from its official creditors on interest
and military debt service payments. In 1983, the external current account
deficit vas reduced by half, from $1.9 billion and 12.7 percent of GDF in 1982
to $873 million and 6.6 percent of GDP. The balance subsequently vorsened in
1984, particularly in relation to GDP, but still remained under $1 billion.
In both 1983 and 1984, about balf of the roughly $1 billion improvement in the
current account in relation to 1982 was attributable to debt relief. -e' The
net inflow of public medium and long-tern capital (including grants) has
declined sharply from about $1.5 billion in 1982 to an average of only $400
million during 1983-1984. In 1985, the net inflow rose to about $1 billion,
including an exceptional $300 million grant from Saudi Arabia. Nevertheless,
these inflows had to be supplemented by continued debt relief along the lines
of the 1983-84 debt rescheduling, and demand management policies to keep
import growth under control.
l1 Over $200 million in interest payments were rescheduled in each of the two
years. In addition, the current account balance benefitted from military
debt relief in the amount of $325 million in 1983 and $250 million in 1984.



-4-
8.       Further progress in reducing both external and fiscal imbalances is
envisaged under a new stand-by arrangement with the IMF approved on
September 13, 1985. Preliminary data indicate some slippage in fiscal
performa:^-e in the first half of 1985 and disappointing resuits on external
trade, attributed essentially ta weak demand in the phosphate market. These
suggest that stronger corrective measures would be needed to keep the
stabilization program on course including, in particular, restraining current
expenditures and reducing subsidies on foodstuffs and public services. A
formal debt rescheduling through the Paris Club covering maturities from
September 1985 to February 1987 was agreed on September 17, 1985. Ninety-five
percent of the total debt due were rescheduled along lines similar to those
obtained under the 1983-84 debt relief arrangement. The 1983-84 rescheduling
agreement between Morocco and the commercial banks was signed, after long
delays, on October 21, 1985. These recent developments should help Morocco
reach a balance in its external accounts for the next two years.
Medium Terni Poleies and Prospects
9.       Since 1983, the Government's objective of achieving viable external
and fiscal positions along with satisfactory growth has been translated into a
coherent medium-term strategy to restrain domestic absorption and increase the
efficiency of resource throughout the economy. The principal elements of
Morocco's medium-term adjustment program involve a shift ta outward-looking
trade and exchange rate policies; far-reaching reforms of price, credit, tax
and regulatory policies to remove institutional and other obstacles to
efficienL mobilization and use of resources in key productive sectors of the
economy; considerable improvements in the efficiency of governnent investment;
more cost-effective methods and better targetting of social programs; and a
thorough overhaul of the public enterprise sector.
10.      The shift to an outward-oriented development strategy is the
cornerstone of Morocco's medium-term adjustment program.  Continued
adjustments in trade and exchange rate policies will be made to complete the
reform of the overall incentive framework designed to accelerate export growth
and reduce and rationalize import protection. Key instruments are to be a
flexible exchange rate, the elimination of the special import tax (expected by
January 1987); a general reform of the tariff level and structure, with the
objective of reducing the overall level of protection to 25 percent through
decreasing maximum duty rates and evening out the spread in tariff rates
within and between sectors; and finally, a phasing out of quantitative
restrictions on imports. Domestic price controls, which were already removed
in 1983-84 on many manufactured products, are planned to be fully eliminated,
in parallel with progress in import liberalization. Remaining export
licensing requirements will be abolished, with exporters to be entitled to
import all inputs on a duty-free basis.
11.      At the same time, appropriate sector strategies for the key
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, will be promoted.
In industry, although the development of Morocco's potential for export of
phosphate fertilizers will continue to be an important objective, the



-5-
contribution of this highly capital-intensive sector to employment and to the
establishment of a broader industrial base through forvard and backward
linkages vill remain limited. Moreover, a high degree of dependence on
phosphate and phosphate fertilizer exports has made Morocco extremely
vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations in the volatile world phosphate market.
For this reason, the industrial strategy must be based on the diversification
of manufactured exports, including processed foods and nontraditional
manufactures where Morocco may have a comparative advantage on world markets.
In agriculture, Morocco needs ta continue developing an appropriate package of
policies designed to overcome existing constraints to rational land use
patterns, to ensure that farmers have adequate incentives to improve farming
techniques and use modern inputs, and to provide the support services needed
to bring about these changes. A first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(2590-MOR) in line vith such policy direction was extended by the Bank in June
1985.
12.      The low productivity of investment has been one of the major factors
in the poor performance of the Moroccan economy in the past ten years. The
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investment need to be improved
considerably both in the public and in the private sector. In the private
sector, the reform of the protection framework described above should go a
long way towards removing distortions in investment patterns. However, it
vill also be necessary to review the bias in favor of capital-intensive
activities inherent in the current investment incentive system, including tax
exemptions and interest rate subsidies which artificially depress the cost of
capital.  In the public sector, increasing the efficiency of investment will
require a considerable improvement of existing planning and budgeting
mechanisms, including better procedures for setting investment priorities,
strengthening of project preparation and monitoring capability, and placing
more emphasis on the economic evaluation of projects before they receive
Government sanction.  Policy actions to imp.ove the public investment and
enterprise framework as well as continuing reform of trade policy and a
comprehensive approach to financial sector reform are supported by the Bank's
second Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA II) loan (2604-MOR)
approved in July 1985.
13.      An exceptionally strong savings effort vill be essential for the
success of Morocco's adjustment process. In the private sector finanrial
savings have been repressed in the past due to inadequate financial policies
and negative real interest rates. Savings are now being encouraged through
increases in deposit rates and a program of financial sector reforms to
improve financial intermediation and develop the domestic money and capital
markets. But the most intense savings efforts in the next few years will have
to take place in the public sector, which continues ta be a major source of
dissaving, particularly through the Government budget. In the medium term,
sustained improvement in the mobilization and utilization of resources by the
public sector vill require fundamental reforms in a number of key areas,
including social expenditure policies, taxation, and cost recovery and
efficiency in the public enterprise sector. In the social sectors, where
coverage of the population is still inadequate, Government activities need to
be restructured so that basic services (particularly education and health) can



6
be delivered more effectlvely but at substantially lover cost. More
cost-effective methods and better targeting vill be prerequisites to a further
broadeaing of accesa to these services in the future. Food and other
subsidies also need ta be targeted to the groups most in need rather than
directed to the general population.
14.     Macroeconomic projections based on the Government's reform piograms
indicate that it may take the better part of the next ten years for Morocco to
complete its adjustment process and become fully creditworthy. The growth of
the economy is likely to be severely constrained in the early years of the
adjustment process. However, as the restructuring measures designed to
promote exports, improve resource use and increase domestic savings begin to
work their effects through the economy, the external imbalance should lessen,
and restraints on domestic demand could gradually be relaxed. Moreover, the
growth of external demand expected to result from the trade liberalization and
export promotion policies, and the svitch in the composition of domestic
demand from imported to domestic goods, fostered by the adjustment of relative
prices, should help mitigate the temporary negative impact of alower public
expenditure growth on incomes and employment.
15.      The projections suggest that GDP growth is likely to remain low
(below 3 percent p.a.) until 1990, accelerating thereafter. Domestic demand
is expected to grow very slowly until 1990, reflecting the impact of
stabilization policies on both investment and co«sumption. Investment, vhich
has been declining since 1978, should continue to fall in real terms and in
relation to GDP until about 1987, then rise somewhat until 1990, recovering
strongly thereafter. Assuming that central government investment expenditures
would remain constant in real terms in the medium term, the adjustments would
occur primarily in the public enterpises and private sectors. Government
consumption, which had grown very rapidly until recently, is projected ta
decline marginally in real terms and to drop by 3 percentage points in
relation to GDP between 1985 and 1990. The growth of private consumption,
which already slowed significantly in the early 1980s, would remain just below
that of GDP in 1985-90, and accelerate only slightly in the 1990s.
Restructuring policies should bring about an acceleration in the growth of
exports of goods and nonfactor services. The acceleration of export growth
would help sustain a modest recovery of imports, the overall trend of which
has been downward since 1978. Imports, however, should rise much more slowly
than exports between 1985 and 1990, as a result of the demand restraint and
expenditure switching policies.
16.     As a result of the drop in the GDP share of both investment and
consumption, there should be a steady decline in the cconomy' a resource gap,
with a small surplus projected for 1990. Gross domestic savings are expected
to rise much faster than GDP throughout the period, initially as a result of
improved savings mobilization by the public sector, and later reflecting
continued substantial improvements in private savings as well. The marginal
savings rate vith respect to GNP will need to be very high (about 50 percent)
in 1985-90, as a necessary concomitant to reducing the external deficit; it
should slacken slightly thereafter. High domestic savings should enable the



-7-
economy to finance the recovery of investment vithout recourse to external
savings in the early 1990s. This vill be essential, since, throughout the
remainder of the 1980e, the balance of payments will remain under considerable
pressure because of continuing high debt service payments. By the end of the
decade, reforms of the overall economic incentive framework and increased
efficiency of public investment should have raised the productivity of new
investment considerably, and the ICOR should drop substantially from the high
levels prevailing in the early 1980s.
17.      It is important to recognize that the implementation of the
stabilization policies and measures for structural adjustment envisaged in
this scenario vill entail some transitional social costs. With population
grovth at zbout 2.5 percent p.a., GNP and consumption per capita, which have
been essentially stagnant since 1980, are not likely to show much improvement
in real terme until the end of the present decade. Stabilization policies and
measures to increase efficiency will initially be reflected to some extent in
depressed domestic demand, increased unemployment, and some decline in real
incomes, particularly the real income of urban populations, Goverament
employees, and workers in less competitive industries. On the other hand, the
real income of farmers, who constitute by far the poorest segment of the
population, should rise as a result of increases in agricultural producer
prices and improvements in support services and marketing institutions and
infrastructure. This will be particularly true of farmers in rainfed areas.
The political and social implications of these welfare shifts are likely to be
significant, and to keep them manageable will be a major e.oncern of the
Government in the next few years. While the cost of not undertaking the
required economic adjustments would in any case be greater in the Long run, it
vill be important to minimize the negative short-term impact of these
adjustments on the poorest groups.  After 1990, as a result of the reforms
undertaken in the 1980s, the economy could return gradually to a higher growth
path without endangering external equilibrium.  Per capita levels of income
and consunption could begin to rise again, and the restoration of economic
dynamism would greatly improve Morocco's ability to deal with its serious
unemployment problem.
18.      A steady improvement in Morocco's external payments position should
result fr-m the acceleration of export growth relative to import growth
anticipated in 1985-90. The economy's negative resource balance, which
averaged more than $2 billion in 1980-82, and dropped to $1.2-1.3 billion in
1983-84, is projected to decline steadily, and virtually disappear by 1989.
Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained at a modest
pace, the current account should improve roughly in parallel vith the overall
resource balance and could reach approximate equilibrium around 1989.
However, the overall balance of payments can be expected to continue to show
large deficits because of the hea'vy principal repayments coming due on the
external debt, including substantial repayments to the IMF. Because of
mounting debt service obligations, gross public long-term capital requirements
are projected to average close te US$2.5 billion annually during the period
1985-90.



-8 -
19.      It is clear, ander these circumstances, that Morocco will continue to
require debt relief for several more years. The projections include the
effects of the recently concluded 1985-87 debt rescheduling agreement through
the Paris Club, and assume debt relief from private creditors during 1985-87,
essentially along the lines of the debt reschedulings obtained in
l983-84.Â' Normal public long-term capital inflows could then be
approximately sufficient to cover che remaining financing requirements in
1985-87 (about US$1.2 billion annually), assuming that new loan commitments
from Morocco's official lenders can be maintained at their current rate (about
US$800 million a year). Recourse to commercial bank financing, outside of
these guaranteed programs, is likely to remain constrained and overall private
capital flows are expected to remain sporadic, at US$100-300 million
per annum, probably strongly conditioned on, if not directly tied to, specific
adjustment programs (such as co-financing of the ITPA II and PERL operations)
during this period.
20.      For the years 1988-1991, Morocco is going to need around US$2 billion
annually tc meet its capital requirements. Providing that US$800-900 million
a year are forthcoming from official creditors; and assuming a reasonable
recovery of private source f inAnciug of about US$700 million a year, around
US$400 million still remain to be generated each year to cover the gap.  With
Bank and IMF transfers stretched to the limit, Morocco's remaining financing
requirements wili bave to come in the form of further debt relief, grants, or
some concessional assistance. Only beginning in 1992, with debt repayments
from past borrowings and successive reschedulings starting to level off, could
equilibrium in the overall balance of payments appear assured on the basis of
normal official capital inflows and a sustainable recourse to private
financing.  If the envisaged external capital flows do not materialize, the
Coveroment vill have to resort to severe corrective measures to finance its
resource gap.
21.      In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few years, the long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed would
continue to rise rapidly until 1988, but vould begin to stabilize thereafter.
The ratio of debt ot.tstanding and disbursed to exports of goods and services,
which had risen to 260 percent in 1984, would start to decline, progressively
dropping to 175 percent by 1990 and 114 percent by 1995. In the absence of
debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service ratio would have risen above
50 percent-of exports of goods and services in 1985 and 1986. With debt
relief obtained for the period 1985-87, on the other hand, the debt service
ratio could be kept manageable at 24-25 percent during the next few years.
Assuming no further debt relief, it would rise sharply in 1988, with
repayments on the 1983-84 rescheduled maturities (including military debt)
falling due, but would then start declining gradually in the 1990s.
V/ About US$230 million of military debt service payments coming due each
year until 1988 are assumed ta be rescheduled along the same lines as
other obligations.



-9-
PART Il - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO Â'
22.      Bank lending to Morocco has supported 65 projects, financing a total
of $2,675.5 million (net of cancellations), of which $25 million from a Third
window loan. IDA credits, totalling $45.2 million, have been made available
for five projects.  IFC investments have amounted to $104.7 million
($59.9 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of
IFC investments, as of September 30, 1985.
23.      Until recently, performance in project execution has been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays in project implementation, and in others insufficient tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance.  However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, proiects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar vis-à-vis the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lovering disbursements vis-à-vis
appraisal estimates.  The ratio of disbursements to appraisal estimates
averaged 43 percent as of September 30, 1985, low in comparison to other
countries in the region.
24.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investmerts and policy reforms aimed at structural adjustment and
strengthening the balance-of-payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly through lovering the unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, in order to increase access by lower-income groups. Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position.  A major objective of Bank economic and sector vork is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases is being supported by Bank lending.
At Government's request, in addition to ongoing work on the public investment
program, the Bank is assisting in developing reform proposals relating to the
public enterprises. Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to
persist over the medium-term, projects now under preparation or consideration,
like the proposed project, are timed and designed to be consistent vith the
investment strategy which aims to minimize their reliance on incremental
budgetary funds and, if applicable, support Morocco's efforts to reform its
public enterprises.
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part V in the Second Industrial and
Trade Policy Adjustment loan (Report No. P-4075-MOR of May 6! 1985).



- 10 -
25.      Agriculture continues to represent au important sector in Bank
lending for Morocco. Past Bank lending bas primarily supported rural
development and irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, in parallel with successful series of agricultural credit projects.
There are no major covenants in default. Bank's operations in those fields
vill continue at a pace consistent vith the country's investment capacity
while paying special attention to maximizing non-budgetary financing and
improving cost recovery. At present increased attention is being given to
agricultural support services at the national level, which are essential for
backstopping regional development projects. In parallel, the Bank has helped
the Moroccan authorities to review the sector policy framework and to
formulate its medium-term adjusttment program covering investment strategy,
pricing and incentive policy and role of the public sector. The recently
approved Agricultural Sector loan was in support of a first phase of such a
sector adjustment program and is expected to be folloved by similar
operations, as further specific measures to adjust the prices and incentives
framework are developed.
26.      Energy and mining.  The Goverument has given high priority to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission and coal mining modernization and expansion. Future projects
vould assist in the development of domestic energy supplies, including gas,
and hydropower. Through these projects as well as in our sectoral policy
dialogue, efficiency in energy development and use vould be promoted through
attention to pricing, cost recovery and management issues.
27.      Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services. Future
projects like the proposed port project will place greater emphasis on
improving the productivity and efficiency of existing infrastructure through
improved financial and management performance. Nobilization of private and
non-budgetary financing as vell as improved cost recovery in these subsectors
through tariffs should also help reduce the Treasury deficit. In addition to
continuing support for the above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under
preparation for railways, severage and telecommunications.
28.      Industrial development in Morocco has been supported in the past
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de Développement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit. In addition, policy changes vere introduced to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries. Other projects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Rank's efforts are
nov focused on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production.  The first phase of such reforms was supported by the Industrial



- il -
and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) Ioan of 1984 and was succesafully
implemented. Further stages of reform of trade policy, as vell as a
comprehensive reform of the financial sector, and policy actions on public
investments and public enterprises are supported by the on-going Second
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan.
29.      Education, health and urban development projects vwii  increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
avay from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these should be complemented
by efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as vell as
restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the recurrent budget.  The recently approved first health development
project will test new health care delivery systems in order to improve basic
health services in rural areas. Finally, the experience of projects in urban
upgrading vill be continued and expanded, with increased efforts to mobilize
private financing in order to reduce budgetary costs.
PART m - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
30.      Morocco has a vell developed transport system, including some
27,000 km of paved roads, a railway syste. of about 2,000 km linking Most of
the large cities, nine major ports, and 14 airports handling scheduled
flights. Roads dominate internal travel, and account for about 95 percent of
total passenger-km and 83 percent of freight traffic other than phosphates.
The road network in Morocco is adequate in density to satisfy current demand.
Airports and the national airline are geared to promote tourism; ports and
railways are particularly important for the transport of various minerals and
of phosphates, the country's main source of foreign exchange revenue. The
efficiency and capacity of the port system are key factors in the export of
phosphates, fruits and vegetables, and manufactured goods, and the imports of
grains, petroleum, coal, and manufactured products. Transport services are
operated by private, government owned, or mixed capital enterprises whose
tariffs and levels of service are under strong government regulation.
SectoetOrChaiation and Recent Developments
31.      The Government agencies involved in the administration of the
transport system are: (i) the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), vhich is
responsible for the construction and maintenance of roads and ports; (ii) the
Ministry of Transport (MOT), which regulates road transport and supervises the
railroads, civil aviation, the state-owned bus company and the state-owned
freight forwarding agency; and (iii) the Ministry of Fishing and the Merchant
Marine which supervises shipping. The Ministry of Planning coordinates the
development plans for these ministries and the Ministry of Finance allocates
annually public investment and operating funds through the annual budgeting



- 12 -
process. Specialized public enterprises under the tutelage of either MPW or
MOT, such as the Office for Port Operations (ODEP) carry out Government
policies in the sector.
32.      The 1981-85 Development Plan proposed substantial increases in
transport investments over the two previous Plans. In 1983, however, the
Government, with Bank support, reexamined its public investment program to
adjust it to levels compatible with a balanced budget. The resulting 1984
annual budget allocated about DR 1,700 millions (US$ 170.0 million) to the
transport sector - of which 29 percent is for roads, 45 percent for rails, 25
percent for ports, and about 1 percent for airports. The road sector
allocation is limited to maintenance and some betterment works. Current
expenditures on the railways actually represent payments on deliveries for
works and rolling stock contracted in previous years. Port investments
include maintenance works of the port of Casablanca (the proposed project) and
maintenance of a number of small coastal ports. In addition, a port project
at Agadir bas been included, based on regional development considerations and
to take advantage of favorable concessional assistance from Spain despite the
project's marginal economic justification.
33.      A further slow-down in the implementation of on-going programs and
investments is, however, necessary to meet the budget resource constraint. In
the coming years efforts will therefore largely concentrate on (i) improving
planning of investments and their coordination between modes and across
sectors; (ii) maintaining the infrastructure in place; (iii) increasing
productivity through better management and increased efficiency of operations;
and (iv) gradual elimination of subsidies and cross subsidies among users,
through a more flexible tariff system and correct pricing.  Discussions are
currently being conducted under a future Public Enterprise Rationalization
Loan CPERL) in order tu explore possibility of financing, among other items, a
transport development policy study to strengthen the planning snd policy
analysis capability of the MOT, and develop least cost solutions for the
routing of major transport commodities. The PERL would also provide technical
assistance to the railways (ONCF) and road transport industry to improve
operations planning and to help them achieve financial autonomy. Under the
proposed port project, the Government will continue to exchange views with the
Bank on its port development plans and overall sector policies.
Past Bnk Iending Ti the Transport Seetxo
34.      The Bank provided loans totaling US$258 million equivalent to the
Moroccan Government from 1969 to 1985 for the construction, improvement and
rehabilitation of main roads under four highway projects and of rural feeder
roads under ten agricultural projects. No railway or port development
projects were so far financed by the Bank. The highway projects were designed
to encourage investments with high returns to the economy, particularly
maintenance and rehabilitation, and to help build up the staffing and
organization of the agencies responsible for road construction and maintenance
and for transport coordination. The rural roads projects have met specific
needs as part of integrated agricultural development packages. The project



- 13 -
Performance Audit Reports for the First and the Second Highway Projects
(respectively Loan 642-MOR/Credit 167-MOR and Loan 955-MOR) which were
designed to improve traffic conditions, highway maintenance and transport
planning, outline their successful implementation, with rates of return above
appraisal estimates despite cost overruns. Loan covenants have been generally
complied with, but progress expected on transport planning has been slow to
materialize, in particular because ôf split responsibilities between the
ministries of transport and public vorks. However progress in transport
planning is expected with the proposed PERL operation. Disbursement lagged
considerably behind the physical implementation of the projects because of the
slow processing of withdrawal requests by the Government.
The Port Subseetor -- Ekground and Orck iization
35.      Morocco has some twenty ports along its Atlantic and Mediterranean
coasts (Map IBRD 18692). However, three major ports in Morocco handle over
90 percent of the total import/export traffic:  Casablanca and Mohammedia
located vithin 20 km of each other and administered as one unit, and Safi, 240
km to the southwest. The other ports scattered along the coastline handle the
remaining 10 percent of the international traffic. In addition, there are
numerous small fishing and coastal traffic ports. The existing port
infrastructure, if well maintained and better managed, is sufficient to serve
the traditional sea borne traffic.
36.      Total Moroccan import-export port traffic vas about 34 million tons
in 1979, of which some 26 million tons, or 76 percent, passed through the
ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia. Of the total annual traffic, about 20
million tons vere phosphates of which some 17 million tons left through
Casablanca. About 3 million tons of crude oil are imported annually through
Mohammedia. General cargo traffic amounted to about 2 million tons, of which
29 percent vas containerized. Traffic at the Port of Casablanca and
Mohammedia grew until 1978. After 1979 it plunged as a result of worsening
economic conditions, a decline in GNP, and steadily decreasing trade volumes.
Traffic subsequently recovered, and from end 1980 it has been growing at about
2 percent p.a. - a growth rate which is expected to continue for the next
five years. Traffic distribution, however, among the country's ports is
changing in response to shifts in the type of traded goods, and as a result of
a policy of decentralization away from Casablanca.
37.      In spite of substantial capital investments during the 1970s (about
DH 5 billion), the ports suffer from low productivity and apparent limited
storage capacity due to slow traffic throughput. Slow traffic throughput is,
in turn, caused by outdated regulations, operations and management practices.
Pricing policies in the sector have been aimed at holding down inflation,
rather than being used as a tool for efficient allocation of resources.
Investment policies in the past overlooked the economic merit of alternative
designs, and there was lack of coordination between operations within the same
port and among ports. To remedy this situation, the MPW has carried out a
Part Development Program to analyze investments in ports over the next twenty
years based on their economic merits. A set of assumptions was retained to



- 14 -
forecast traffic trends at each port. and the corresponding investment needs
vere defined. In line with Bank advice, the traffic forecasts vere modified
to reflect the low growth trend, and the proposed port investment program is
now accompanied by an economic justification of each project proposal. During
project implementation the Government vill continue to exchange views with the
Bank on its port development plans and overall sector policies. The Transport
Development and Policy Study proposed for financing in the proposea eERL
project would integrate the port investment proposals into a multi-modal least
cost investment program.
38.      MPW has overall responsibility for port administration, planning,
construction, maintenance, dredging as well as port operations. Until end
1984 it discharged these responsibilities through its local Port Directorates
and the Régie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca (RAPC), a public enterprise
under its tutelage. The latter exercised a monopoly over all cargo handling
operations in all major ports. The local port directorates discharged most
other port responsibilities of the MPW, especially maintenance. However,
insufficient budget allocations for maintenance, increasing subsidies, and
ad hoc organizational arrangements led to operational and financial
inefficiencies, causing the Governient to redefine the operational and
financial responsibilities in the sector. It did so by abolishing RAPC in
December 1984 and establishing ODEP, Office d'Exploitation des Ports, a
financially autonomous enterprise vith industrial and commercial character.
In essence, ODEP acquired all of the assets, financial and operating
responsibilities of RAPC including some of the key operating and financial
responsibilities previously belonging to the Port Directorates.
39.      ODEP operates in the following nine major ports:  Casablanca and
Mohammedia, Agadir, Safi, Kenitra, Tangiers, Nador, and in the Saharan ports
of Jorf Lasfar and Tan-Tan. Its principal functions are to:
(i)   undertake cargo handling services except where Government assigns
these tasks to others (concessionary arrangements with other entities
including private operators are possible);
(ii)   maintain all port infrastructure except for:  breakwaters and
dredging which is done by the Port Directorates; and other
infrastructure operated by specialized users such as the phosphates,
the grain silo operators, etc;
(iii)   collect cargo-handling tariffs previously collected by RAPC as well
as the port dues previously collected by the Directorates; and
(iv)   undertake at Gavernment's request, and for its account, other port
activities, including construction of new port infrastructure with
proven financial viability, such as, for instance, the oil berths at
Mohammedia and the future container terminal projected at the same
port.



- 15 -
40.      The Port Directorates remain in charge of maintenance of breakwaters,
dredging, and of all harbor master functions: control and safety of ship
movements, berths allocation, coordination of usera toward maximizing port
productivity, gooda security, and leasing of port facilities to usera.
ODEP
41.      ODEP has offices and personnel in each of the ports where it
operates, but its headquarters are located in Casablanca. Decision on policy
matters including planning, pricing, personnel management and procurement, and
supervision of both finances and operations are carried out from Casablanca.
Though financially autonomous, ODEP is a public enterprise under the tutelage
of and subject to the financial control of the state. It i managed by a
Board of Directors which may delegate certain povers to a management committee
(Comité de Direction) and the Managing Director. ODEP's Board, chaired by the
MPW, includes representatives from nine other ministries. Usera are also
represented. ODEP's Managing Director is appointed by the MPW. ODEP's four
departments are: (i) administration and personnel; (ii) operations; (iii)
machinery and equipment; and (iv) finance. ODEP's Casablanca office includes
a Data Processing department which centralizes some accounting data, payroll
and port statistics. The system is nov being revised to integrate all
management aspects in all ports. Technical assistance financed under the
proposed project vill help study and implement the proposed system revisions.
42.      ODEP's staffing and organization are adequate to carry out its
current tasks but staff in some departments need to be trained and
strengthened. Alo the diversity of ODEP's functions and the geographical
dispersion of port units call for a better understanding of the advantages and
disadvantages of the current organizational scheme versus possible
alternatives. A reorganization study undertaken vith Bank financing under the
proposed project is expected to be completed by June 1987 and it vill make
recommendations on the optimal level of decentralization and possible future
changes in the organization - such as the transfer of same activities to the
private sector.
Port Directorate of Cmslanea and Mohedia (DPCM)
43.      Because of its importance the Directorate of the Ports of Casablanca
and Mohammedia (DPCM) ansvers directly to the MPW, while the Directorates of
the other ports report to the General Directorate of Secondary Ports (GDSP) of
MPW. DPCM has the folloving responsibilities: security of ships and goods
movements, maintenance of the breakwaters and control tovers, dredging,
supervision, control and coordination of the other entities licensed to
operate in the port area. DPCM's staff is organized into three departments:
central services, port operations and engineering. Although its staffing is
adequate and of good quality, DPCM has traditionally suffered a high turnover
of engineers because salaries are not competitive . In January 1985, however,
engineering staff responsible for maintenance were transferred to ODEP vhere
salaries are higher; it is anticipated that this action vould reduce staff
turnover. Moreover, all port labor vill be gradually retrained folloving the
implementation of the TRAINMAR - a system of port personnel training modules



- 16 -
successfully developed and operated by UNCTAD. The system will be adapted to
local conditions by a UNDP team in cooperation with ODEP with financing under
the proposed project. On-the-job training by port operations advisors is also
provided under the proposed project.
Financial PoUcies
44.      Investments in port infrastructure vere financed by Government mainly
through foreign loans. In principle, port charges for services delivered to
ships and cargo should have compensated Government for operating and
maintenance as vell as capital related costs. Hovever, this was only
partially achieved. At the port of Casablanca, revenues vere sufficient to
offset operating costs, only because major maintenance was deferred during the
1980-84 period.  In the other ports revenues from port charges failed to cover
even operating and maintenance costs: revenues collected in those ports
during 1980-84 amounted to only DR 90 million while working expenses amounted
to DR 105 million. Consequently, the Government compensated the ports for
operating losses evaluated at about DH 15 million and bore the cost of all
investments.
45.      The prese.t tariff structure is inadequate.  Uniform rates apply to
ail ports, vith the exception of cargo handling charges. As they are nov,
port tariffs discriminate against containerized goods, do not charge the
ship-owners their fair share of infrastructure cost, and fail to give
incentives for prompt delivery of cargo. Moreover, the systems for storage
charging is unduly intricate, blurring the relation between the total daily
cost and the duration of storage. The current sliding scale should be revised
to penalize more effectively goods using the port for storage.
46.      Proposals for port tariff increases are made by ODEP in concurrence
vith MPW and subsequently reviewed by the Central Commission on Prices and
approved by the Minister of Finance. Port pricing reforms will be addressed
by a Tariff Study, financed under the proposed project, and due for completion
by mid-1986. Tariffs will also be raised and restructured to create proper
incentives and to generate sufficient revenues to recover the cost to ODEP of
maintenance, operations, and capital, including the fee payable to the
Government by ODEP for use of public port assets. Tariffs (port dues and
other port charges such as for cargo handling) were increased, as of August
1985, on average by 25 percent.
PART Iv - THE PROJECT
47.      The proposed project is the first Bank port operation in Morocco.  It
was prepared by MPW in close consultation with the Bank, folloving an
identification mission which took place in 1982. The project was appraised in
December 1984. Negotiations took place in Washington in October and in Rabat
in November 1985. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5543-MOR, dated December 20,
1985) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III; the loan and project summary is provided in the
beginning of tbe report. Maps No. 18692 and 18693, attached, display the
location of project activities.



- 17 -
48.      The objective of the proposed project vill be to assist Government in
developing a sounder port subsector by improving its administration,
operations, and financial viability. More specifically the project vill:
(a)    improve the operational efficiency of the Ports of Casablanca and
Mohammedia and minimize port users costs including damage to cargo
and equipment;
(b)    inprove the management and financial viability of the subsectors'
major public enterprise; and
(c)    improve investment planning in the subsector.
49.      The project includes:
(a)    rehabilitation of existing port infrastructure in Casablanca
including the provision of vorkshop equipment to replace old and
obsolete equipment at ODEP's workshops in Casablanca;
(b)    dredging of Casablanca port to achieve originally available
depths;
Cc)    rehabilitation of the Casablanca port breakwater and central
tower;
Cd)    provision of a heavy-lifting crane, concrete mixer and transport
equipment needed to maintain the recently built breakwater at
Mohanmmedia port;
(e)    provision of technical assistance (consultants and expert
services) to ODEP for: (i) preparation of tender documents;
(ii) help in supervision of civil works and equipment purchases;
giii) reorganization of vorkshops; (iv) modernization of the
ship-repair facilities; (v) improvement of port operations,
including container handling and storage and improved control
and monitoring through modern data management systems; (vi) the
reorganization of ODEP and improvement of its financial
management including budgetary and inventory control, internal
audit, cost accounting, and management information systems; and
identification of port operations suitable for privatization;
(vii) a study to define a nev tariff structure; and (viii)
review of customs procedures; and
(f)    staff training for ODEP and DPCM through:  (i) fellowships for
engineers; (ii) development of the TRAIHMAR system to improve
the skills of all levels of port labor and staff; and (iii)
on-the-job training.



- 18 -
Main Features
50.      Rehabilitation.  Responsibility for miintenance of port facilities is
shared by the Port Directorates and ODEP; the former for port breakwaters and
dredging and the latter for all other port facilities including its own cargo
handling equipment. Although the 1981-85 investment budgets included
important allocations for the maintenance, rehabilitation, and modernization
of the secondary ports, maintenance of infrastructure in the port of
Casablanca vas severely neglected. As a result, roads, storage areas, water
supply, transit sheds, drainage and electrical systems, roll-on/roll-off
ramps, ship repair facilities and workshops have fallen in disrepair and need
urgent rehabilitation. On the other hand, maintenance of cargo handling
equipment has been adequately carried out. Nevertheless, the project vill
help replace old and obsolete workshop equipment used in the maintenance of
cargo handling equipment, and provide for a technical assistant workshop
specialist and staff training to modernize the process of cargo handling
maintenance. Furthermore, in an agreed Action Plan, ODEP assured that it will
prepare a report for Bank review at the end of each calendar year on
maintenance works carried out during the year, their costs, and a schedule of
works for the folloving calendar years. In addition to the rehabilitation
works to be financed under the proposed project, agreement was reached with
ODEP and the Government that they would maintain the port assets under their
respective responsibility in accordance vith sound engineering practices. To
that end they would allocate annually at least US$ 5.5 and US$ 2.0 million
equivalent respectively to assure satisfactory maintenance of existing port
assets.
51.      Dredging, Casablanca Port. The available depths in front of the
deep-water berths and in the harbor are about one meter less than originally
provided. Dredging works provided under the proposed project will rectify the
situation and allow larger ships to dock promptly and avoid topping-off
costs.  Additional maintenance dredging is not expected before five years.
52.      Casablanca's Breakwater and Control Tover. In the past, DPCM
regularly maintained the breakwater armor layer by placing 100 ton concrete
blocks in locations, chosen on the basis of visual observation, to replace
blocks displaced or broken through storm wave action. Breakwater maintenance
has, however, been neglected in recent years. Rehabilitation works provided
under the proposed project will rectify the situation, and ensure adequate
breakwater maintenance thereafter. The project will also repair the building
now used to house the control equipment and replace communications equipment
for contacting ships and controlling ship movements.
53.      Equipment for Mohammedia Port. An extension of the breakwater was
completed in 1984. The contractor's equipment used for breakwater
construction is still on site, but is expected to be removed upon termination
of the contract guarantee period, scheduled for end 1985. Suitable
replacement equipment will be needed, including a heavy lifting crane capable
of placing 60 ton concrete armor blocks, a concrete plant, and transport
equipment to carry the blocks from the casting yard to the breakwater.
Engineering consultants vould study and propose the most suitable equipment.



- 19 -
TecnicAld Assistance
54.      Port Operations.  Cargo handling and stevedoring in Moroccan ports is
satisfactory but with better organization, productivity in cargo handling can
be improved. The proposed project would thus finance studies, technical
assistance, and training benefitting both ODEP and DPCM to: (i) investigate
solutions for streamlining of cargo handling operations from ship to shed;
(ii) coordinate port operators to improve service to the ship and to reduce
ship and cargo waiting time; to control and enforce productivity norms and
safe working practices; and to coordinate and make all port users including
customs, shippers and traders aware of their direct role in improving
throughput in the Port of Casablanca and the effects it can have on export
promotion; (iii) improve equipment deployment; (iv) rationalize container
movements; and (v) align the tariff structure vith operating costs.
55.      Preeminent in improving conventional cargo operations, container
turn-around times, and cargo throughput in the Port of Casablanca is the
urgent requirement to hasten cargo documentation and clearance procedures,
including new customs procedures. It is expected that, as a result of the
reorganization of customs, the average time goods are held for customs
clearance vill be dropped from four to two days. Simultaneously, as
stipulated in the recently approved ITPA II loan, Government has established a
Trade Facilitation Committee to recommend improvements in all cargo
documentation procedures in the Port of Casablanca. The technical assistance
provided under the proposed project will liaise and participate in the work of
this Coummittee to ensure comprehensive coverage of all official and commercial
interests in port procedures. Assurances vere obtained from ODEP under its
Action Plan that by October 31, 1986, it would initiate the study on delays in
the transit of goods through the Casablanca and Mohammedia Ports. Moreover,
Government has agreed to develop improved customs clearance procedures and to
publish and apply these by June 30, 1987.
56.      ODEP's Financial Systems have improved over the last three years, but
they still show deficiencies in consistency, accuracy, and analytical
potential which vill be addressed by technical assistance under the proposed
project. Expert services will focus on: (i) codifying the accounting
interpretation of any particular transaction at each port; (ii) firming up of
accounting for stores and fixed assets; (iii) introducing a cost accounting,
budgetary accounting and a budgetary control system; and (iv) improving the
documentary procedures.
57.      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all consultants
and experts required for technical assistance activities and studies vill be
recruited in accordance vith Bank Guidelines for Employment of Consultants
under terms of reference and according to an Action Plan agreed vith the
Bank. In addition, ODEP agreed to assign qualified staff to work as
counterparts to the proposed consultants and experts.
Prolet Imigementtion
58.      ODEP vill be responsible for executing the project which is
functionally divided into two parts.  The first part which consists mainly of



- 20 -
rehabilitation of existing port facilities will be carried out by ODEP for its
own account. The second part (breakwater rehabilitation and maintenance,
dredging activities, streamlining customs procedures, fellowships, training)
will be carried out by ODEP for the government's account and with assistar.:e
from DPCM.  ODEP and Government have signed a project implementatioa' »reement
satisfactory to the Bank which describes in detail their respective
responsibilities and financial obligations with respect to the implementation
of the second part of the project. Authorization or ratification of this
agreement and satisfaction of its conditions of effectiveness (other than
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement) are conditions of effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement. Civil works included in the project are limited to
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing port facilities and dredging of the
port. Similar rehabilitation works were carried out periodically by ODEP and
DPCM, except for the last three to four years when budgetary constraints
forced a slowdown in maintenance and rehabilitation works. The scope and type
of the proposed works are based on investigations and studies carried out by
qualified local engineers, revised and updated by the preappraisal and
appraisal missions. Preparation of tender documents for engineering
consultants will be retroactively financed under the proposed project (from
January 1, 1985). Assurances were obtained that under the Action Plan, ODEP
would furnish by December 31 of each year a detailed plan for the next year
setting forth its organizational, planning and financial objectives and the
actions to achieve these objectives and thereafter carry out these actions
taking into account the Bank's comments. The project is expected to be
completed by December 1989.
Projeet Cost and FMnaneinE
59.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$41.0 million
equivalent (including taxes and customs duties), of which US$22.0 million (or
about 54 percent) is in foreign exchange. Cost estimates for civil works are
based on data provided by DPCM's engineers, confirmed by a port engineering
consultant during the preappraisal mission and revised and updated by the
appraisal mission. Cost est mates for equipment are based on international
prices for similar equipment. Estimates for technical assistance include cost
of equipment to be purchased, foreign and local travel, and other items
incidental to the services requiring an outlay of funds. The project vould
finance the equivalent of 400 staff-months of technical assistance. Physical
contingencies of 15 percent on civil works is considered appropriate coverage
since final engineering is not yet available for all project components.
Physical contingencies on equipment and technical assistance are set at 10
percent. Price contingencies have been provided for all project items as
follows: 12 percent on local expenditures incurred in 1985, 10 percent in
1986, and 6 percent in 1987 to 1989 and 5 percent on foreign expenditures
incurred in 1985, 7.5 percent in 1986, and 8 percent in 1987 to 1989.
60.      A Bank loan of US$22.0 million equivalent would finance about
54 percent of total project costs or all of the direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs. Remaining project costs of about US$ 19 million would be
financed by ODEP which will secure all local funds needed for the
implementation of the project from internal cash generation. The loan would
be made to ODEP for a period of 20 years including a five-year grace period at



-21 -
the standard variable interest rate. Under the Project Implementation
Agreement, ODEP vill recuperate about US$15.0 million equivalent necessary to
cover the total cost, including taxes and customs duties of the part of the
project undertaken for the Government's account, through a reduction of the
port fee due to the Government. The loan would be guaranteed by the Kingdom
of Morocco. ODEP would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.      ODEP has agreed that contracts under the project vill be awarded on
the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines, except for works for
rehabilitation and upgrading of the water system, transit sheds and control
tover equipment, estimated in the aggregate at about $3.5 million, which would
be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Goods manufactured in Morocco and procured under ICB may be
accorded a margin of preference in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Consultants and experts services amounting to about US$4.0 million will be
recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines under agreed terms of reference.
Each contract estimated to cost $100,000 or more would be subject to prior
Bank review.
62.      The loan would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1991, a rtlatively
short disbursement period, owing to the fact that civil works included under
the project are limited to rehabilitation vorks. Disbursement will be made on
the folloving basis: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 49 percent
of local expenditures for rehabilitation vorks for port facilities (US$7.52
million equivalent), and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 58 percent of
local expenditures for rehabilitation works on breakwaters and dredging
(US$3.10 million equivalent); (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
55 percent of local expenditures for equipment (US$3.8 million equivalent);
and (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 70 percent of local
expenditures for technical assistance (US$2.20 million equivalent).
Retroactive financing of US$1.0 million equivalent is foreseen to provide the
foreign exchange expenditure incurred after January 1, 1985 for the tariff and
reorganization studies, the TRAINMAR program, and engineering consultants'
services for project preparation.
Audit. Accoumts and ReportiiX
63.      International auditing firms are vell represented in Morocco and
ODEP's accounts vill be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank. Audit reports will be provided to the Bank within nine months of the
close of each fiscal year for fiscal years 1985, 1986 and 1987 and within six
months thereafter. ODEP will maintain appropriate accounts including separate
project accounts.
64.      In order to monitor project implementation, ODEP will prepare
periodic progress reports as vell as a Praject Completion Report. The project
completion date is December 31, 1989. However, 18 additional months are
allowed for disbursement to be completed, and the loan closing date is,
therefore, June 30, 1991.



- 22 -
Finanem Evaluation
65.      Despite the adverse effects of the slow growth in traffic since 1980,
RAPC managed to produce a before tax income of DE 12.3 million in 1981 and
DE 21.0 million in 1982 largely due to tariff and port dues increases in the
more important ports. In 1983, RAPC encountered a before tax deficit of
DE 6.4 million due to the revaluation of its long-term debt caused by the
depreciation of the Dirham. In 1984, RAPC's deficit rose to DR 22.2 million
as extraordinary items related to staff pension viped out an operating income
much improved over the previous years. Most (over 75 percent) of cargo
handling resources and incomes are earned in the two project ports
Casablanca and Mobaimnedia.
66.      Since ODEP took over all RAPC assets and liabilities in December
1984, two key adjustments had to be made in projecting ODEP's finances: (i)
on the revenue side, to account for the port dues ODEP vill be collecting
(formally accruing to the Port Directorates); and (ii) on the expenditure
side, to take into account the extra cost of maintenance and the fee to be
paid to Government which is based on the value of public port assets that ODEP
operates. During negotiations assurances vere given by Governmenc that the
fee payable annually by ODEF to the Government vill be progressively increased
so that by 1990 and thereafter, it vill equal at least the sum of: (i) 5
percent of the average current net value of Government financed fixed assets
in operation entrusted to ODEP by Governnent; (ii) an amount equal to the
annual depreciation of these assets; and (iii) ODEP's apportioned share of the
average current net value, annual depreciation, and administrative and
maintenance costs of Government financed fixed assets in operation not
entrusted or transferred to any port user (e.g. breakwater). Assurances vere
also given that ODEP would generate revenues from port dues (which were
increased by 30 percent on average in August 1985) sufficient to cover the
Government fee and ODEP's maintenance costs of Government financed fixed
assets in operation entrusted to it.
67.      Moreover, in order to maintain profitability of ODEP's operations,
the cargo handling charges (tariffs) levied by ODEP must also increase.
During negotiations assurances were given that ODEP vill, by 1987, earn an
annual return of no less than 7.5 percent of the average current net value of
its fixed assets in operation.  Cargo tariffs vere increased by 20 percent on
average in August 1985 and given estimated productivity levels, further tariff
increases of 12.5 percent in 1986, 10 percent from 1987 to 1989 and 5 percent
thereafter vill be needed to meet the rate of return objective. Once
implemented, the revised port cargo tariffs as vell as the port dues will
still compare favorably with price levels found in neighboring countries.
Lastly, ODEP's indebtedness vill be kept vithin appropriate limits, i.e.
estimated net revenues will be at least 1.4 times the estimated debt service
requirement.
68.      In suimmary, in 1984 the total net deficit in the port sector amounted
ta some DR 2 million.  The net income is projected to increase by 1990 to
about DR 168 million, or DB 250 million including taxes. The principal
beneficiaries would be the Port Directorates (Government) whose net revenues



- 23 -
vould increase from DR 20 million in 1984 to DE 56 million by 1990.  In
addition Government would receive the taxes paid by ODEP, which are projected
to increase from DE 7 million in 1985 to about DR 85 million in 1990. Over
the same time frame, ODEP's net income, after taxes, vould increase from DE 9
to DE 109 million.  Compared to investments, total net income to Government
from the port sector as a whole represented less than 10 percent of the total
value of its port investments in 1984; this is projected to increase to more
than 100 percent in 1990.
Project Benefits and R;iks
69.      While indirect benefits (see belov) expected as a result of the
proposed project cannot be quantified, an econamic rate of return of over 30
percent was calculated, based on the folloving conhervative assumptions: (i)
general cargo waste and pilferage vill be reduced by 2 percent (a savings of
about US$ 1.0 million per year); (ii) losses in equipment, vater and
electricity evaluated at about US$600,000 equivalent per year vill te avoided;
and (iii) the cost of major breakwater repairs, if not maintained for fi v
years, vill be avoided.
70.      The port rehabilitation and technical assistance components of the
proposed project will improve operating conditions and efficiency in the Port
of Casablanca. Replacement of old and obsolete workshop equipment vill lover
cargo handling equipment down-times. Moreover, adequate dredging of the port
vill allov larger ships to dock promptly and avoid the cost of topping-off.
In addition, breakwater maintenance cannot be deferred since the breakwaters
at Casablanca and Mohammedia are exposed to some of the most poverful wave
forces in the Atlantic Ocean. By deferring their maintenance the probability
of collapse increases. The benefit of regularly replacing the blocks is the
savings of reconstructing the breakwaters estimated to be betveen US$50 to 100
million for Casablanca and Mohamnedia respectively. Finally, the proposed
project, through its technical assistance component, vould strengthen the port
organization, lead to a financially more viable port system, modernize
management of the major public enterprise operating in the sector, and support
the Government's export promotion efforts.
71.      There are no special technical risks associated vith the project.
The project will have no significant enviroamental risks as all proposed port
improvements are confined to facilities which have been operating safely for
several years. ODEP, however, faces institutional riska such as further
reorganizations, clarification of responsibilities between it and the Port
Directorates, privatization of selected activities and its ability to manage
its operations effectively. Though not eliminated, these risks are reduced
through the institutional strengthening measures provided by the technical
assistance component.



- 24 -
PART V - RECONMENDATION
72.      I a  satisfied that the proposed loan vould comply vith the Articles
of Agreeuert of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attacbhents
January 29, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-25-                                              ANNEX I
Page I of 7
S a   L e  >
NO6OU                 - OCIAL XUCICATE  DATA SE
mocoREUCC0aUi CUEIMR  AVEGS>  c«ame
oew             Nism.- fhl           U     é
ffuni      117ei  :SrmNAS        N. ARcA A NID £AST      LAT. ASEcA à CAR
a   tuSt uQ. ino 
TOTAL                              446.6 lc   446.6 le   446.6 ,
CICELTDRAL                        l1.7       200.1       l0.2-
Cw  m  wins>                           ..         .. C      760.0            i14.2                    187.9
-. esuo mo canau
(K    S  oir oit KLe I    >.0                174.0       U4.0              623.9                     3.
POPULATIOI,NZ)-YA  CTHSAND   I1624.0    14968.0    20001.0
MIIII  wO Hman  (R OF TOTAL)       29.3       34.6        42.6              49.0                     67.7
POPULATION I,      2000 C                               31.2
STAflOIIIZY POPULATION (PILL)                          70.0
POiULUNOU                                               2.0
POPULATION osmT
PEt Sq. m.                       26.0       33a.      4*6.                37a                      48.0
PIE Sq. l. AEi. LAI              602        74.         m.9              470.1                     91.1
POPUlAT IO STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 US                          4.1       47.5        44.9              43.                      38.5
15-4 Tus                         52.5       48.2        52.0              53.0                     57.1
65 AND Ai,                        2.7        4.1         3.0               3.3                      4.2
POPUATION CEOW  RATE (S)
TOTAL                             2.6        2.5         2.5               2.8                      2.4
UDam                              3.7        4.2        4.1                4.4                      3.6
CRws  aIt  EU  (tFR fws)           50.3       47.5        39.7              40.0                     30.9
CR5DECE     aU (PEt 1OUS)          21.2       16.9        14.3              11.5                      8.0
CROSS RUEODOCTS RIE                 3.5        3.5         2.8               2.8                      2.0
FANIL? PUZIC
ACCPToas   l    (TI )S>           ..        25.1        76.0 Id
Us Ct OF rD   UM>                 .          ..         26.0              21.4                     45.3
INDEX or raOD PRO. FI CAyU
<1969-71-100)                      n.o        98.0       7 5                95.1                    109.6
FER CAPITA sWPLT oF
CAORIES ( o            S)        95.0      103.0       118.0             118.2                    112.2
PW us (CRAS PER DAT>             60.0       65.0        79.0              77.8                     69.4
0F 1IxcM AUL AND PUISE          14.0       13.0        14.0 la           17.S                     34.2
CtIIu (as I->) DCA  RATE           37.6       26.4        12.0              12.8                      6.8
LIFP £MPCr. AT 11 Cit (ais>)       46.7       50.6       52.2               57S                      64.8
tiA?s tUrE. Ra   (ER 110B>)       160.5      126.5       98.0               96.8                    59.7
AC15SS TO SAE ATER I(OP)
TUO                              30.6       51.0        55.0 Id           67.2                     65.3
URU                              58.7       92.0       lo.0 7i            93.4                     76.5
RURAL                            19.0       28.0        25.0 71           45.8                     44.2
ACCCS TO UCRETA DISPOA5
(Z OF POPULATIONI
TOTAL                             ..        29.0         ..               65.9                     56.3
URUS                              ..        75.0         .                63.0                     73.'
RURAL                             *-         4.0         ..               28.6                     23.5
POPULATON Pli rYsICIA            9410.0    12790.0    10750.0 /t          4331.0                   1909.7
POP. E NUISIS lRSIMON               ..      2740.0      1630.071          1845.0         O08.2
POP. M   ISm AL Mmx
TOTAL                           630.0      660.0       750.0 le          621.8                    362.0
ORalE                             ..       450.0       610.0 fl          545.0                    622.0
RURAL                              -      5810.0      3010.0 7;         25113                    2716.7
ADIYSIONS Ml NOSFITAL SED          ..        15.5        17.9 la           25.7                     27.5
SLN
AVERAGE SIZE OF HCUSIIOLO
TOTAL                             4.*        5.5
--Im                               4.3        4.9
RURAL                             5.1        5.8
AVERAE NO. o0 PERSS/RM
TOTAL                             2.2        2.4
URAM                              z.l        2.1         .
RURAL                             2.3        2.6
Pvnwsx OF O}DELLINCS un ELECr.
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URU                               ..        6.4         65.0               ..
Ruai                              ..         ..



:   26-                                              ANNEX  I
-26-
Page 2 of 7
SA * L C 3A
NDAOCCO                - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHORT
NoBocco                              ÆZrCRERNc CROUPS <EZsHTED VERUACES) /a
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESSnCATE) lb
RCOJT           MYIOLE INCCHE            MIDDLE lCOu C
196Ok      197n/b  ESTD<ATEf.I    X. AFSICA à NID EAST     LAT. A8ERICA à CAR
ADJUSS D EiULUIE   NATIOS
rPRUAHE.  ToTAL                   47.0        52.0       80.0               89.8                     106.7
HALE                   67.0        67.0        9R.0              103.7                    101.5
?ZMALE                 27.0        36.0        62.0              75.2                     104.6
SCCOIDIr? TOTAL                    5.0        13.0       28.0               42.9                     44.2
HaLl                    7.0        18.0        33.0              50.9                      42.7
TEZM^L                  2.0         7.0        22.0              34.6                      44.1
VOCATIOUAL (T OF SECODIIT)           0.0        0.0          1.8              10.0                      13.3
PUFIL-T cm  RATo
PMRKD Y                           42.0        34.0       36.0               29.7                     29.9
SECOUDAT                           6.0        20.0        21.0              18.8                     16.7
PASSUNCCE CA.S/T?OUSAND POP         10.7        14.9        21.5 tj           17.8                     46.0
RADIO UcCYiVuS/SbWSAND POP          45.8        62.5       167.7             175.9                    328.3
TV UECVERSITROUSAND POP              0.4        11.6       41.7               51.2                     112.4
NEUPAPIR (DhAL? CENIERAL
TERESTO> CTRaILATION
PUR TUOUSCAI  POPULATION           22.1        16.2        .2.6              37.2                     81.1
CDhEHA AmNUAL ATTEND*UCEiCaPITA      1.5         1.5 tb      2.0 le            2.4                      2.4
TOTAL LAIOR FORCZ (SHOUS)         3389.0      3939.0     5544.0
FEIlLE (PRCENT)                   10.0        14.2        16.2              11.0                      23.6
AhRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.0        57.0        52.0 Il           42.4                      31-.
iNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.0        17.0       21.0 o7            27.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION ATE (PERCENST)
TOTAL                             29.1        26.3        26.7              26.2                      33.5
MALE                              52.1        45.2        44.5              46.2                      51.3
FEMALE                             5.9         7.5        8.5                5.8                      15.9
E0OMOIUC DEENDENCt RATIO             1.6         2.0         1.8               1.8                       1.3
PERCENT OF PRIVAIE ImmOHE
rEECEVEI BY
£RIGST 5S OF HICSEUO              18.0 fl    20.0 /        *
LIGUES? 20S OF In0sEnImO          43.3 /i    49.-          .
LOUES? 20S OF HOUSENOLDS           7.0 1      4.0 -        *I
LOVEST 4MM OF HOUSEHOLDS          18.0 J      12.0 Jrf
ESTiaIED AISOLOTE POvERn! incOE
LEvEL (DSS PER CAPITA>
lIEA,                            107.0       157.0       389.0 /f          226.3                    288.3
RuRAL                             66.0       101.0       238.0 7f          134.0                     185.3
ESTIMATED RE.ATNE POVERIT INCSE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPTA)
RuAU                               ..          ..       242.0 If           431.5                    519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        157.0o T          326.0                     359.7
ESTDIATED POP. JELOM ABSOLUTE
PoVERT? ImOD"E LEVEL (X)
URiAN                             51.0        38.0       28.0 /f
RURAL                             49.0        A5.0       45.0 7é            29.0..
MT AWIILAEE
NO? APPLICABLE
Il O T E S
/a  Tba grap a*ra4pu for *ach tbdicator are populatiom-Vighted aritttic  means. Cavarag  of couatrieu
acaa the ladicator depeud on av*a-bil±ty of data and la uot uaifora.
/b   Valnsr otharvia, noted, Data for 1960' refer to amy yeer batwam 1959 and 1961; 'Date for 1970 betueen
1969 and 1971; and data for OHcat Recent Eetimte" betcen 1981 md 1983.
:c  Exclude tbs ex-Spaniah Sahara;  /d 1976; le 1977; If 1979; .g 1978; th 1972; Il 1980;
/ ComuMtSio  expendituro of bouadbolde.
JUNE. 1985



- 27 -                                       ANNEX I
Page  3 of 7
DnFmmONS OF SOCIAL INDwcIà
Nos MUhdoh e damaredudm r  mourserallyjud  mme muaaudoiad         reliadma bkit*hoidmald ibenond thOn  theymy nom bho nnmmmmlly
compable bmemue ald dh lak cd ardludt duitiou ud conupa med by dffL cauMiues in collecirng th data. Th dati amr noncthka. usul go
deib «dorsem o<.mnude. indisme immd.. mnd dmmcniert in major diffems betwe canti.
Mmt ehieso groupa re <K) lm saie country group of mie ubjet coury *md <2)m  coummmy group with somdai higybr avere income thma the country
groupotdie subjec ctnmy(px lt forHgh lmcomseOilpwoer poup whercMiddle Encore Ncofh Afincsimnd Middle Emi schoe boecau odtrimger
sococulmuml mnhic). 1 dIe rference oup daa tie *avemam popution teied snmimmic carna for ech lodicator and uhown only wrm mjonty
oftlmouiml in ha poup badtai fifr <t1m indistor. Since ho covene oc ieunsiaomgme ndm trs dependib on the availmbiity oldaia and in not uniform.
caution mua be ezrcisd in relatirig avems aorne indicasor go anoter. Tbie avenp ac oely uliul in compming the value alone indicator si s time amont
tK couary Md rderesoe groupa
AiEA (thousad sq.kaz)                                          Cai Dih Rae (par Jhoma-Number of lre births in the year
Tota--Total surface ara conprisin d *rea and inbnd water.;    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 dam.                                      Crae DenS Rate (per thoamd)-Number of deaths in the year
d_grlclwa-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of nid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permneantly for crops. pastures market and kitchen gardas or to  Gra  Reqnraiatea RheAveravge number ofdaughers a woman
lie f6low. 1960 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in ber normal reproductive period ir sie experences
presenm age-specific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CARIA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates ut current        in 1960.1970 and 1983.
markt pricos. calculated by sanie convenion nmbod as Worild        t     r Ps  AAAl (drhasaJ-Annual num-
Rank Ados (1981483 basis); 1983 data.                         berofacceptors of birth-control devices underauspices of national
EMERCY CONSUMVflON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 fnuliy planing program.
consumption of commercial prùuary energy (coal and lignite.    Fasd<y Pla  Wq-Ulmrs (percn ofumare nwe-The percen-
petroleui., natural gis ad hydro-. nuckar and geothermal ebc-  tage of married women ofchild-bearing uge who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. and  whose busbands are practicing any fr oi ofconîraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    o! child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49, although for
sonie countries contraceptive usage is nicasured for other age
POPULAlION AMD VITAL STASTI-CS                                groupS.
Toand 1 l83odt. MM-Yer (SOasa -As ofJuly 1: 1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
ae*x.afFdPidociad    Par CaEa (1969-71= 1(W)-Index ofper
Urhm Pophien (rent of tetal)-Ratio or urban to total          capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
populationz diffeiant defiaitions of urban aras may afect compar-  e.de a     fe  a   sed for agrulture. FoM commodities
ability cfrdata among countries 1960 1970, and 1983 data.      include prinary commodities (c.g. sugarcane instead of sugari
hp."ltaAojecdies                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (cg. coffet and tea are
Apmdatwn m  ,year 2000-The projection cf population for 2000.  excuded); they comprise cereals. roo crops. pulses oil seeds.
niadi for each economy separatefy. Starting with information on  vegetables fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beots, livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates mortality rates. and  livetock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intemationail  ugration ia the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the bais of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            er Cap1ra Sappl  abCrie (perceat ofreqrets)-Conpuî-
Statenary popuu o*in-ls one in whicih ag  and sex-specifit mor-  cd froni calorie equivalent of net food supplies availablc in country
taiity rates bave not cbanged over a long period. while agespeci6c  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
ferility rates bave simultaneously remained at replacemt lkve  tion. imports lss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(nt reproduction rate = 1). la sucb a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal fecd, saeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal <o the death rate. the ago structure is also  food processing. and fosses in distribution. Requirements wnr
constant. and the growib rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sizc was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and bealth considtring environmental temperature. body weighbs.
the populaton in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sx distribution ofpopulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to repblcemnt levea.                                     waste at housebold kevel: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpdatiods Msenmnrm-ls the tendency for population growtb to  Per CapEib Sapplp qfPrsein (gram per dayj-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replament-leve fertility bhs been  percapita net supply offood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achievetl that is even afler the net reproduction rate bas lreacd  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
aunty. Tht momentum ofa population in the year i is iteasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population w tho population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. givn the assumption that fertilty remains at replace  should bc animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment level from year z onward. 1985 data.                     75 gmis of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-i&- DeuY                                                     average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqnm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Fer Capla bteia Sapy Rom Animal a  PÉhe-Protein supply
er sq.kn. agricdtural CIod-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams pert day: 196145.
Iand only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpalai  Age Sua5se (peret>--Children (0-14 years). work-     Clf (âges 1-4f Deatn Rate (per tshaad)-Number of deaths of
iagage(l5-64ycars) ndmretired(65yearsandover)asprcentage      dhildten aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing couniries data detrved
ACPpdua  GrenA Rave (peraeg)-roraI--Aanual growth raes of     from life tables, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Populton GCrae    Raew <percenf-ra-Annual growth raies         L#é Expectaar lirA (yearf-Number of years a newbom
Of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live ir prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-28 -                                              ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 7
ut the time of o its birth wer to *tay the Ume throughout it lire:;  Pp-tracher Ratio - prbuary. and semodary-Total sludentu en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 datL                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Infant MroalyRp Rate (r thssa)-Number oa inGants wha die    teachen in the corresponding klves.
beforte reaching one year o age per thousand live binths in a siven
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                              CONSUMPMION
Accs to Sap  Wat (pren of    ktENk          i rM_, -d         PJJeuge Cars (per thrsa  popuam-Pumenger car com-
nraI-Number of people (talan urban. and rural) with reasonable  prite mootr cars mating les than eight persans; excludes ambul-
acces to smae water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, harses and military vehicles.
untreatd but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rao Redvrs fpr ttd- A ll types of receiven
borehahol  mprings and sanitary wells) as perentues of their rpec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thoumand or population.
tive populations. In an urban vtem a pubblc fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in yearm when
located not more than 200 neters from a houme may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data ior recent yesan may
as being within reasonable acces of that house. In rural areas  not bc compamble since most countries abolished licensing.
reaonable access would imply that the houwwife or members oathe
houselhold do not hawe to spend a dispgrtpoionate part of the day  TV A;>ers (per tàoe     pepnWmTV receiver for broadc s
in fetching the a aly s water needsa                         to gneral public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Accin s echn thert  Diapiy' t s p er of ne                   receivers i countries and in years when registration oaTV  ets was
aud rura-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by  cn effecta
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newer C         pr *   m _p)-Sh ows the aver
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age irculation of 'dily gperal interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodicd publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systens or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be dailyf if it appears at hast fiour times a week.
PopmIaà per Phjskia-opulation divided by number o prac-      Ciwi Amical Atenaue pr Capa pr Ye-Based on the
tising physicians qualified froun a medical school at university level.    number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populdaon er Narsag Perumu-Population divided by number of   drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing maIe and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                    LABR FORCE
-rprW per He*^al O6ed-,qom  wtm   t rw -Population           Tota Laber Farce (trM    J-Economically active persons. in-
(total       H urban and rural) dividcd by their respective numbar of  cluding armed fiorces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hositai bedsavailablei publiciand privatr repeti andmspcialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rahabiltation cpite . Hospitals ara establdshmeats  various couniries are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at kast one physician. Establishments prov-  FSma& (pertflfl-Femakl labor fiorce as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    iorce.
however. include health and medical centers not pernanently staffed  Agriaikwe (prceui>-Labor roroe in farming foaestry. hunting
b> a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor forcez 1960. 1970 and 1980
wlnch offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                      I/auhrrv (pemt)-Labor fiorce in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions r  Hspuil Ret-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and ekctricity. water and gas as percentage oa total labor
discharges from hospitais divided by the number of beds.     force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
PRiz   Rat a(p ere           l,  andfmmsl-Participation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as total mair. and fenuae labor forle
Arag  Sioe .l Hoeehld (pscs per hsehcd>-taa, arbu.           as percentages oa total. malt and female population of all agst
aail-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectivelyY 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main mels. A boarder or lodger mray or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population. and
may not bc included in the household for statistical purposes.  long tiue trend. A few estimates are frnom national sources.
Aver; e Nuiber of Perss per Room-semuta wrbus, .d rural-     Eoentie Depeadescy Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in aIl urban. and rural   65 and over. to the working age population <those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dweDings. respectivdly. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of DweNgiç wvis Eectrieitp-raai,rum, sud rirai-   Prce e of Total Dposabi lcnwe (bath ià cas anj kisdf-
Conventional dweltings with ecactricity in living quartes as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwelings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ajsted Et iA,.fnr Ratio                                      The following estuiates are very approximate mneasures of poverty
Prnairv xhool - total. rmk and fenaW-Gross total. mail and   kevels. and shoulid be interpreted with considerable caution.
femani enroDlment of aD ages at the pnmary leveI as percentages of  Eued Abscse Peverry Ince Lea (fUM pr qapitu-u
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  aud ruaI-Absolute poverty income levd is that income level
consider primary school age to bc 6-11 years others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essetial
diflerences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected ln the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esrimared Reitre Pènerty I1   Lee (MUS per cuia>-riw
education. gross enrolaient may exceed 100 percent since same  udn rwua-Rural relative poveriy income level is one-third of
pupils art below or above the counmry's standard primary-school  average per capita persanal income of the country. Urban kev  is
age.                                                         derive  irom the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary schdol - total. maie anmd fen -Computed as abovm   living in urban arcas.
secondary education requites at eaut four years of approved pri-  EsVmÎet Popul_ n  Dbldw Aàbce P1ver  lcre  Laed (per-
aary instruction providts generaL. vocational. or teacher training  ce -rib anam rra- Ptroent of population <urbar. and rural
instructions for pupils usuaDy of 12 to 17 ycars of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are gencrally excludeid.
VocatioRi  Enro/lmen (percn of scondrjj-Vocatioaal institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indtpendently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



- 29 -
Population    t 20.1 ailiton <mid-19131                                                                                                  asia
OIP Per Caplta:  USS 710 918                                                                                                           Page l of 7
mcoen - EoumKIre IIDICTOR
<mi llon USS at                      -nnual CrOth Rat-- iai
current priets>                           Axtiai                                       Pralrtpd
!ndieator                        lent                  18       12U12    111    l_i           1/ et    1                11      lm      122
MlAntThAL *fOuurs
Cross deast.c product a/           1214&                  -1.3     6.8     2.2      2.4     4.3           2.4     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.9
Agriculture                      2023                -22.9    19.9    -4.6      2.0      0.0           2.0     2.0      2.5     2.5     2.5
Zndustry                         39132                -0.1      2.2     3.1     0.8      3.0           1.5     2.0      2.5     2.6     3.0
Services                         6119                  5.0      6.1     3.8     3.4     4.7            3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0
consuo tton                        10647                   1.6     6.0     0.3      1.2     3.4           2.3      1.1     1.6     1.6     2.2
Cross I.vestîment                   2792                  -9.4     7.1  -14.0      8.1   -S. 0           -4.6   -0.6       2.9     2.8     1.0
Eaports 0f GNfS                     3055                  0.2      *.6     7.3     3.6      6.1           0.1     7.8      *.2     7.5     5.6
Imports of GNFS                     4349                  2.0      3.7   -11.9     3.2    -4.2            2.0     2.3      3.4     3.3     3.0
Cro5s national smvlngi              1820                 -12.2     4.5    21.2      7.9     1.7           3.4     7.4      0.1    12.5    11.0
rOP deflator <1980 * 100)            .                    85.4    91.7   100.0   110.1   121.8          125.0   136.4  152.8
Eachange rate (USS per OHN           .                    .240    .256    .254    .193    .166           .141    .114      .10
Share of COP et Martlet Prices (>)                              Avera.. Annuel Inerense 151
fat eurrent Orlessi EJ                  tat constRnt 1989 arlesi           fat constant 1980 aricesi
3128    "75    12 121 1.160     5la      1225             1270-7Z    117Z10          11111       L%M-L 1E LULI
Gross dofstic product                                                                    4.9        5.5             3.1         2.7         4.9
Agoriculture            19.9    17.9   18.1    15.0    14.7    13.5                  -1.4        4.4            0.5          2.3         3.0
Zndustry               27.0    35.2    32.3    30.6   30.1    31.2                   7.4         4.2            1.9         2.3          5.7
Services hb            53.1    46.9    49.6    54.4    55.2    55.3                  5.6         6.4            4.7          3.0         4.9
Consuption                 85.5    as.5    88.5    86.8    83.5    79.6                  5.0        6.1             2.4         1.8         3.9
Gross investuent           18.5    25.4    22.6    16.8    15.2    20.4                 13.0       -1.3           -2.6          1.0        11.2
Exports GNFS               17.6    22.5   18.4    19.9   24.9    25.5                    0.0        4.9            4.8          7.6         5.3
lports GCFS               21.6    33.4    29.4   73.5   23.7    25.5                    8.3         1.7           -2.0          2.9         6.4
Gross national savinos    14.8    19.3    14.6    12.0    15.8    20.6                  15.3       -4.4           -1.2          8.5        10.6
As x of COP
1228      122       128        211 1212  £11        11
PUBLIC FDAIICE
Current revenues                               16.1       23.3      21.6      22.7       22.3      21.9
Current expenditures                           14.5       20.2      21.8      22.7       22.8      21.9
Surplus C+. or deficit t-3                      1.6        3.1      -0.2       0.0      -O.S        0.0
Capital exPenditure                             5.7       12.2      12.2      13.1        8.4       6.6
Foreign financing                               1.3       3.7        5.6       7.2       3.6        S.0
19707    197-L   1980-85   1985-90   1990-9s
nMER shmc^TangR
G91  growth rate (X<                            6.0       4.9        2.9       2.4        5.1
GhP per capite gro.th rate tSI                  3.1        1.8       0.4      -0.1        2.6
Energy consu.otion growth rate 15>              6.7       5.6        3.4       3.0       4.9
ICOR                                            3.0       4.1        6.9       5.8       3.5
Marginal savings rate                           3.08      -0.15      0.14      0.48       0.36
Imoort elasticity                               1.84      0.13      -0.65      1.08      1.32
IV At mrket prices.
hi 1nport taxes included In services.
Cr Projected years et constant 1980 prices.
di Estimate.
Decemer 15. 1985
EMENA CPIIB
I0 39790 pl



Population       e0.6 million t<ld-1931             -                    30--30-
OIF Par Caepita   US$ 70 <1983) Plau 6 or 7
DAuvnt
Indlcetor                    (million USS at
curront pricos>                           Au                             ____________________________r_ee_
1U4                 1       lm       12u     lm  IV  lm  si 19                12    Ii       12    IU
rXTEM^L OfE
Hurchand1se experts <FOSI            2169                  2.9     1.1    10.3     5.1       5. S.1              7.8 S     .2     7.4     5.3
Primry produCts                    1280                -3.6  -11.4       *.6     3.7      S.3           4.3     3.0      .0      3.0     3.0
Phosphate rock                    S24                -S.6  -10.1       5.4     2.7      * e.0                 3.e     3         .      3.0
Others                            726                -2.Z  -12.4       5.7    .4         6.9          S.2     3.e      3.0     3.e     3.0
Intermediate & mmnufactures         919                21.9    30.0    17.7      7.0      6.5          13.3    13 .7    14.0    11.9     7.4
Marchandise Imparti tClfl            39e4                 2.9      5.S   -S.4      7.1      -4.3          2.5     2.9      3.6     3.S     3.2
foed                                660                23.1  -1S.S   -4.9    26.6    -S.0               3.0     3.1     3.2      3.3     3.3
ruals                              1021                10.6    -1.8      1.1     4.8     -2.0           2.4     2.5      2.8     2.8     2.9
Nachlnery and equ1pmnt              733                -7.7    31.4  -27.2       *.5   -1S.1           -2.0    -0.7      2.S     2.5     2.9
Othbrs                             1490                -S.     12.7   -5.1      0.e       O.?          4.1     4.2      4.8     4.3     3.3
PRICE5 (1980 e- 100
fxport price Index                                       120.7   124.4  113.9   166.7    173.7          206.1   249.3   276.7   307.3   341.0
Inport price Index                                       130.0  142.2   153.4  191.0    211.1           239.0   281.2   304.6   330.5   31s.3
Ter.s of trade Index                                     92.8    87.5    SS.6    87.3       82.3         86.2    88.7    90.8    93.0    95.2
Composition if Marchandise Trade tU AMrC nea T                                         aeres.
lat current roe-sl                   Cmcstnt 1969 nrqo tcnnst mnt 1950 urltesî
lm      lm1   m11               lm              1707S   1921-li            IlIkel    J      U-a    ls   e5
Exports                                                                                  -r.3        7.0             5.3         7.5        5.2
Prtmry ;educts                    06.9    74.4    57.3   47.2   42.6                -2.S         5.4            -0.3         1.2        3.1
Interuedlates & _nuUfactures      13.1    25.6    42.7   52.8    57.4                7.9        12.7            16.7        12.4        7.0
Xmports                                                                                  9.0         0.7             0.4         3.2        6.6
Food                              Zs.0    16.9    18.3    18.3    16.0              14.0         2.9             1.1         3.2        3.7
Petroleun                         10.8    23.6    26.0    25.4    24.3               9.6         5.2             2.1         2.7        5.6
Machtnery and equipYent           24.0 1e.9   15.0   13.5    18.5                    12.8       -7.3            -3.          1.2       13S
Others                            40.2    41.6    40.7   42.8    41.2                5.3         2.5             0.7         4.2        5.7
Share of Trade wlth                Shere of Trade with                    Share if Trade with
indu%triel Cnuntris (1            tOvelnin        nri                  Ceaital Surplus 0il Exerters *I(
lm    lm  1970                     1         121  197D l2
DIRECTIOl OF TxADE
Exports                             72.3      73.7      76.5           27.7      25.4       21.6                            0.9        1.9
Impcrts                             76.7      74.9      72.9           23.3      25.1       8.3                                       10.8
e7 Estintte
October 18. 1985
EfIA  CPIIO. 3939i



- 31 -
Population     :  20.8 milllor tmid 19b31                                                                                                             118112
GNP Per Cannta:  ULS 750 119U3I                                                                                                                   Page 7 of i
mODCCrO - tALANCE <IF PAYEhT5 ErEmuAL CAPITAL ANO DERT
Cmillion US  at  eurrmnt prces)
Indicator                                                ctual                                                     Prolected
1289g   £212f1    1282    121l    121  _a  1UI Ci              12                  m 128  12m      lm
BALANCE OF PAYNFNTe
£%ports of goods and services           4364    4132    3843    3921    3975          3988                4528    5209    6036    6978    7977
Of which:  Merchandtse f.o.b.    2414    2213    2043    2016    2169             2106                Z457    2935    3525    4205    4912
Imports of goods and serviCes           S912    6095    5912    4U88    5000         4787                5111    5648    6393    7060    7753
Of which:  MerChandise r.o.b.    4284    4363    4335    3627    3904             3637                3839    4258    4781    5368    6005
net current transfers                    12S      102      170       94       61        64                  69       75       ai      a7       94
Current account balance                -1420   -l61    -1899    -873    -964          -735               -514      -364    -277        6      318
net Direct Foreign Investment            109       73      102       47       si        56                  62       68       75      12       91
Official Grants                           97      313      124      142       16       300                   -
MlLT loans (net]                        1036    1103    1354        230      442       781                 656      564      32i      182    -121
Official                              722    1033      740      340      372       59S                 648      560       Sa    -386    -699
Private                              314       70      614    -110        70       186                   a        4      270      56e      578
Other capital (net)                       22      336      395      297     468      -212                -135    -232    -154    -179    -152
Change ln reserves                       156       36      -76      157      -13     -191                  -69      -36       28     -91    -136
International reserves                   814      510     540       376     266       457                 526      562      534      625      761
Of wlich:  Gold                       415     280      322      269      217       217                 217      217      217      217      217
Reserves as months importS               1.7      1.0      1.1      0.9     0.6        1.1                 1.2      1.2      1.0      1.1     1.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEST
Gross dSsbursements                     1711    2047    2230        9S2    1105       1565
Official Grants                       97      313      124      142       16       300
Concessional loans                   761      889      557      209      274       378
BAC                               100      126      125       49      134       177
OPEC                              584      746      401      115       79       124
IDA                                 1        1        I        1        3         2
Other                              76       16       10       43       sa        74
Non-concessional loans               854      845    1549       631      815       887
Official export credits            12       54      103       50      135        a5
18R0                               64       99      134      174      240       402
Otier multilateral                 13      123       70       23       24        47
Pri. ate                          765      570    1243       383      416       354
Suppliers credits                8       26       52        I       16        19
FSnancial credtts & bonds   758        543    1191       375      400       33a
E.ternal Oebt
Oebt outstanding and disbursed   7109    7983    9054    9445   10347    11513
Official                         3496    4373    5004    5894    6579          7450
Private                          3612    3610    4049    3552    3768          4062
Undisbursed dent                    2154    3146    2487    3658    3093          2359
Debt service
Total service payments 1J           1193    1266    1334       1124    1196        990
Interest                          614      634      581      510      548       506
Payments as t exports of G*S Z,  27.3    30.6    34.7    28.6    30.1             24.8
Average Interest rate on ne- loans (>  18.2          8.4    10.1       7.4      7.4       8.4
Official                                 3.8      3.7     6.9      S.S      6.7       n.a.
Private                                 13.4    13.7    11.8    10.S    11.8          n.a.
Average maturity of new loans CyearS)  13.7          9.5    11.0    1S.9    17.5         12.6
Official                                18.6    11.6    19.7    21.1    20.3          n.a.
Pr tate                                  7.9      7.1      6.3      7.6     6.1       n.a.
As X of Debt Outstandinc at End of Host Recent Year f 19831
maturity structure of debt outstandine
Maturities due .1thin 5 years                                     49.4
Maturities due .1than 10 years                                    80.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due wîttain ftrst year                                    5.8
Ci Esttmate
Il After rescheduling                                                                                                                       October 30  1985
2/ Services include workers  rem1ttances                                                                                                       EMENA CP II-B
ID 3939Bp2



- 32 -
ANNEX tI
STATUS OF RANK OPERATIONS
A. STATÉMÉNT OF RANK LOANS ANC IDA CRÉDITS
(As of September 30. 1985>
Loan or                                                       Amount (less rancellations1
Credit                                                                 USE Million
umbea   Yeru         Bokrc wer             purons             ank       la       Undushursed
Thirty five Loans fully disbursed                         1.047.47
Five Credits fully disbursed                                           45.16
1416    1977    K7ngdom of Morocco    Agriculture            41.0                  14.00
1602    1978    Klngdom of Morocco    Agriculture            50.0                  34.96
1681    1979    Klngdcm cf Morocco    Education              88.0                  S8.7S
1695    1979    Kingdam of torocco    Power                  42.0                  19.66
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           49.0                  12.13
1757    1980    Klngdoem of Morocco    Agriculture           44.0                  15.55
1830    1980    KIngdcm of Morocco    Hîghways               62.0                  12.38
1848    1980    KIngdar of Morocco    Agriculture            24.0                  16.85
1943    1981    CIi                     Tourtsm             100.0                  37.39
1944    1981    Kingdom of morocco    Urban Development  25.0                      19.16
2006    1982    K1ngdom of Morocco    Water Supply           87.0                  64.69
2037    1982    BNDE                    DFC                  70.0                  41.44
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC <SSI              40.0                  37.37
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            24.0                  21.97
2109    1982    Kîngdom of Morocco    Mining                  9.5                   7.63
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocce    Forestry               20.5                  17.26
2114    1982    ONAREP                  0l1 Shale            11.2                   4.16
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education              38.0                  30.84
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            30.0                  28.79
2Z45    1983    cIH                     Housing oevt.        60.0                  56.81
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocca    Agriculture            42.0                  40.89
2254    1983    Kingdom of Morocco   Nkghways                85.0                  81.79
2271    1983    ONAREP                  Cil Exploration    75.2                    38.33
2272    1983    Kingdam of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                      15.30
2367    1984    CNCA                    Agric. Credit       115.4                  56.99
2477    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Voc.Training           27.1                  27.03
2487    1985    Kîngdom of Norocco    Elec.S Mec.Ind         25.1
2508    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal Min.   27.01
2590    1986    Kîngdrm of Morocco    Agr.Sec.AdJ.--    100.0
2604    1986    Kîngdom of Morocco    2nd Ind.tTrade"  200.0
Total                                                 2675.47    45.16
of which has been repaid                             448.28      2.37
Total now outstanding                                 2227.19    42.79
Amount Sold                        20.11
of whîch has been repaid         20.11                 0.0       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        2227.19    42.79
Total undisbursed                                                           812.12
B. STATEMENT 0F IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Septemner 30. 1985)
_ USS Million
Fiscal Year                                                    Luan      Eouity   Total
1986             Frumat              Food & Food Processing   5.7                    5.7
1963/1978/1984  ONDE                 Development Bank          37.6       2.7       40.3
1966             CIL                 Canning Factory            0.9       o.s        1.4
1976            Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory                         1.2        1.3
1977/1980        Temara Cement       Cement Factory             4.7       3.6        8.3
1979             Agadir Cement ^*   Cement Factory             12.5       2.2       14.7
1980             SOMIFER             Copper Mining             13.0       2.3       15.3
1981/1983        Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory             15.8-      2 a       17.8
Total Gross Commitments                                      90.2      14.5      104.7
Less cance7lation. terminations. repayments and sales  41.4          _34        44.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                            48.8      11.1       59.9
Total Undisbursed                                             5.7       0.3 6.0
Nat yet effective.
Became effective October. 1985
Agadir Cenent h.s been cancelled.
10.04798 p2
1?. 17,85



- 33 -
ANNX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification:                         April 1982
(b)  First Bank mission to review project:           June 1982
(c)  Departure of Appraisal mission                  December 1984
(d) Negotiations                                     October/November 1985
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  May 1986
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Effectiveness:
Ratification/authorization of Project implementation agreement and
fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness of such agreement.
(b) Other Conditions:
(i) ODEP and Governwent vill implement the agreed Action Plan
(paras. 50, 55, 57, 58).
(ii) Fee payable by ODEP to Government vill be progressively increased
to a satisfactory level and by 1990, vill be equivalent to at
least 5 percent of the current net value of Government financed
fixed assets entrusted to ODEP by Government plus depreciation of
these assets and a share of the average current net value, annual
depreciation and administrative and maintenance costs of
Government financed fixed assets in operation not entrusted or
transferred to any port user (para. 66).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) ODEP vill generate sufficient revenues from port dues to cover the
Governnent fee plus ODEP's cost of maintaining Government financed
fixed assets in operation (para. 66).
(iv) Cargo handling tariffs vill be raised and maintained at such a
level as to yield an annual return of no lesa than 7.5 percent of
the average current net value of ODEP's fixed assets in operation
starting in 1987 (para. 67); and
(v) ODEP vill maintain its indebtedness vithin appropriate limits such
that estimated net revenues will be kept at least 1.4 times the
estimated debt service requirement (para. 67).



I
il
                                     j           J
j
J         -b   4,
                         o
4                             p
N.
fIJ! *Li                                                       -
v-o',
14     ÎIbb    *'NI                        /1
/     L---
4
z
4
0<
.t4       j    -
(-o
'o
                            4
t           I
J'
                                     z
       I              j
i v-r
f
0<             1H5
i  

t',
 ! r
o                  p.



MOROCCO
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT
PORT LAYOUT                                t4
ouilt-up Arecs                   `;*F2
Future Extention           p '
_~ Custame Fence
4-f- Railronds
Port Buildings
KItOEES '                 »   5d
0.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~é
Rayai NavyH arbor 
.ts                                                         L 4
' -  \   r
/,  \:.}',h&, X\.\À\
loyol Nov/{, 9çol^.ceCOMMERCE 8AS1N <
le ~ ~     ~    rf 
Fi.   Rto   ~  ~                   .$T~=.t.ir.
n f'- E _-_ S-.-- '1-' « ffi A_ b b H_ S 71'-t----.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F                    L      A                                                               -    - -- -°
0~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n -_  - _bue .-u .                           ~        flC  n
.4v ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .       lat  -~o   on    a    én "
______________  _____________   _____________________________________________________________-(J~~~~~~~~~~C



