Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5543-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
December 18, 1985
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Tbis document las a restricted distribution and mai be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      = Dirham (DB)
1 Dirham (DH)                      = US$0 0958
1 US Dollar (US$)                  = DH 10.440
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                      BritishJUS System
1 meter (m)                        = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   = 0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (kmz)           = 0.386 square miles (m-)
I metric ton (t)                   = 0.984 long tons (lg ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DPCM         =       Directorate of the Port of Casablanica and
Hohammed ia
EDP          =       Electronic Data Processing
ITPA         =      Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment
GOSP         =      Generai Directorate of Secondary Ports
MPW          =      Ministrv of Public Works (Ministère de
l'Equipement, de la Formation
Professionnelle et de la Form3ation des
Cadres)
MOT          =      Ministry of Transport
OCP          =      Office Chérifien de Phosphates
ODEP         =      Office d'Exploitation des Ports
ONCF         =      Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONICL               Office National de l'Import et de la
Commercialisation des Légumes
ONT          =      Office National du Transport
PERL         =      Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan
RAPC         =      Régie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca
SCRA         =      Société Chérifienne de Remorquage et
d'Assistance
(This report uses the acronvms of the French titles in those
cases where the Moroccan practice is to refer to the agency in
question by its acronyms).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
TUE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. lNTRODUCTION .................                                                   1
II.  TEE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...............................................   2
A.  General ........................................................   2
B.  Roads ...............................................,.,,                  2
C. Railways ............................................... 3
D. Ports . .............................................. 4
E. Shipping ............................................... 5
F.  Management, Planning and Coordination ......           ...................   5
G. Issues . .............................................. 6
H.  Bank Assistance in the Transport Sector ......           .................   7
III.  THE PORT SUBSECTOR .........................,,.                ...........   8
A.  Administration, Staffing and Training .........................   8
B.  Infrastructure and its Development .il...                 ..,.....   ll
C. Maintenance ..................,,,,,,,,,,. 12
D. Operations ..   13
E.  Financing of Port Investments and Operations .15
F.  Traffic .....................................,,,,,,,,,,,,.16
G.  Accounting, Budgeting, Auditing, Insurance .17
H.  Tariffs .......................................................  19
IV.  THE PROJECT ...........................,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,.20
A.  Objectives ..........................................                     20
B.  Description ..........................................                    20
C.  Engineering Aspects .......................................  22
D. Cost Estimate ......................... 24
E.  Implementation and Procurement .................................  26
F.  Financing and Disbursement .....................................  28
G.  Impact on Environment and Employment .....                                28
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............................  29
This project was appraised by Mrs. lona Sebastian (Economist), Messrs. Michel
Loir (Financial Analyst) and Aladin Fateen (Port Engineer, Consultant) on the
basis of a mission to Morocco in December 1984.
Thbis dom      bas a r_ricd ditludon and may bc used by recpieus only in the pefomnoe of
dher OWNiid duteL Is uotunus naY  oU othrcwibe dîdosed wihout WorMd Bnk autoizaon.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION ............................................. 30
A.   Past and Current Financial Status .............               30
B.   Financial Proiection .............                            33
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION              ..               41
ANNEXES
1.   Table  1   - Repartition of Traffic amongst Moroccan Ports ......  44
Table  2    - Investments in Port Infrastructure 1973-85 .........  45
Table  3    - Investments in the Transportation Sector, 1973-85..  46
Table  4    - Distribution of Public Investment Funds
in the Transport Sector ............................  47
Table  5    - Previous Bank Lending for Transport Sector .........  48
Table  6    - Distribution of Port Functions between ODEP
and the Port Directorates ..........................  49
Table  7    - Productivity Indicators ............................  50
Table  8    - Traffic other than Phosphates by Type of Ships
and Type of Cargo at the Port of Casablanca .51
Table  9    - Traffic Forecast at the Port of Casablanca
and Mohammedia (1985-2000) .........................  52
Table 10(A) - Detailed Cost Estimate (Part A) ....................  53
Table 10(B) - Detailed Cost Estimate (Part B) ......                54
Table 11    - Economic Evaluation of Quantifiable Benefits .55
Table 12    - Local Competitive Bidding:  Actions Required .56
2.   Casablanca Port Facilities.......,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,   61
3.   Action Plan ................................,,,,,,,,,,,.63
4.   Detailed Project Description,....................................  64
5.   Critical Path Program for Project Implementation .................  68
6.   Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement,.,.,,.,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.69
7.   Financial Performance of RAPC
Table 1 - RAPC - Income Statement, 1980-83 .......................  70
Table 2 - RAPC - Balance Sheet, 1980-83.. ...       .....,,,,   71
8.   Assumptions for Financial Projections             .     .     .      72
Table 1 - Projected Cash Flow Statement .......    ...................  75
Table 2 - Projected Income Statement .............................  76
Table 3 - Projected Balance Sheet ................................  77
Table 4 - Financial Status of the Port Subsector and its Impact
on the Government Budget: Estimates for 1984-90 .78
9.   Documents in the Project File .................................  79



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
CHARTS
i    Port Directorate of Casablanca and Mohammedia
Organization CL.rt at Appraisal Date ........................ 81
2    ODEP, Readquarters Organization ............................. 82
3    ODEP, Organization of Casablanca Port Unit .................. 83
MPP - IBRD - 18692 - Morocco
MAP - IBRD - 18693 - Casablanca Port Layout



MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrover:              Office for Port Operations, ODEP
Guarantor:             Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:                US$22 million equivalent.
Terms:                 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The project is designed to improve the operational per-
formance of the country's major port and, through its
technical assistance components, to help integrate port
activities into the country's effort to promote exports,
and to improve the management and financial viability of
the major public enterprise in the port sector. The
Bank loan would finance: rehabilitation of infrastruic-
ture in the port of Casablanca; replacement of workshop
equipment to repair cargo bandling equipment; a heavy-
lifting crane, concrete mixer and transport equipment
for the maintenance of the new breakwater at Mohammedia;
and technical assistance for project engineering and
construction supervision, and for improved port opera-
tions and management.  The project would improve operat-
ing conditions and maintenance in the ports of
Casablanca and Mohammedia. It would, in addition,
strengthen port organization and management. There are
no special technical or environmenta] risks associated
with the project. Institutional risks are acceptable
given the proposed technical assistance program.



jj -
Estimated Costs:
X of
OH Million                   USS Million a/          Base
Local h/  Foreitn  Total   Local  /  Foreign  Total    Cta
Rehabilitation                102.7      108.4   211.1      10.1       10.6    20.7        68
Equipment                      27.7       38.2    65.9       2.7        3.7      6.4       22
Technical assistanceC/        ..4         21.9   .1.3        0t 9^Z              3.1       10
Total base cost1>'        139.8      168.5   306i       13.7       1L.S -   30z      1QQ
Physical contingencyE/         19.1       22.3    41.4        1.8       2.2      4.0       13
Price cont1ngencyF             3.4        11.7    69.1        LI        1d      6.8        2i
Total conttngencies            54.S       56.0   110.5         3i               i1. OL
Total Project Cost            194.3      224.5   418.8      19.0       22.0    41.0       137
j/  Based on the official rate of exchange of US$1 = OH 10.44.
kW  Including taxes and customs duties (about US$10.0 million equivalent).
CU  Including project preparation and supervision. studies. training. etc.
4/  At July 1. 1985 prices.
gI  15% on rebabilitation works and lo0  on equipuient and technical assistance.
fi  12% annually on local expenditure incurred in 1985. 101 in 1986 and 6% in 1987.
1988 and 1989. and S: annually on foreign expenditure incurred in 1985. 7.51 in
1986. and 8e in 1987. 1988 and 1989
Financino Plan:
US$ million equivalent- -
LoCal         Foreign                   Total
IBRO Loan                    0.0           22.0                     22.0
ODEP                        19.Q           QL-2                     l9.o
Total                 19.0            22.0                     41.0
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements
US$ million       - --
FY86     FY87      FY98      FY9       FY90      FY9i
Annual          1.42      4.82     S.33      5.43      3.50      1.50
Cumulative      1.42      6.24    11.57    17.00    20.SO    22.00
Economn c
Rate of Return:           Over 30 percent.
Proiect Risks:            No special risks are associated with the project.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Morocco has a population of some 21 million growing at abouit 2.')%
per year. Its economy knew a brief period of accelerated growth iii tthe
seventies when GNP grew by 6-7% per year. However, the underlying Covern-
ment strategy, based on heavy external borrowings, proved unsustainable
when world phosphate prices declined.  Public investments undertaken during
the boom years fell short of expectations. Beginning 1976 the Moroccan
economy plunged into balance of payments and budget deficits problems and
restructuring of the economy became essential.
1.02     The Government's strategy to cope with the economic situation
consists of the following: (i) cutting the public investment program and
improving the financial performance of the public enterprises; (ii) provid-
ing the basic infrastructure and the economic institutions which encourage
and stimulate the productivity of private, export oriented investments to
improve the balance of payments; and, (iii) encouraging investments with
fast and substantial returns to improve the social equilibrium through
better performance of the economy. These steps, with support of the Bank
Group and the International Monetary Fund, are meant to restore long run
economic stability and growth.
1.03     In this context the Government has initiated measures to improve
the performance of the port subsector. The Covernment's goal is to enstire
the sector's responsiveness to the export promotion effort, and to trainsfer
more financial responsibility to the public enterprises operating the
country's ports. These measures include: (i) stepped-up maintenance of the
Port of Casablanca (paras. 4.04-4-10); (ii) simplification of customs
procedures (para. 3.23); and (iii) transfer of financial responsibility for
port operations and maintenance from the Port Directorates to the Office
for Port Operations, (ODEP). ODEP, a public enterprise under the tutelage
of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), has taken over cargo handling trom
the Régie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca (RAPC), forinerly also under the
tutelage of the MPW, and maintenance of some port facilities from the Port
Directorates, the local port representatives of the MPW.
1.04     The Port Directorates remain responsible for the maintenance of
breakwaters and dredging, and they lease port areas, control ship movements
and build new ports, (para. 3.02)- ODEP collects port dues and cargo
handling tariffs, and pays an annual fee for the use of public infrastruc-
ture for revenue earning activities. The fee is negotiated each year to
reflect the cost of Government infrastructure and of that portion of
maintenance which is urider Government responsibility.  The objective in
setting the fee is to assure gradual full cost rerovery of port investmeKits
(para. 6.15).



- 2 -
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
2.01     Morocco has a well developed transport system, including some
27,000 km of paved roads, a railway system of about 2,000 km linking most
of the large cities, nine major ports, and 14 airports handling scheduled
flights.  Roads dominate internal travel, and account for about 95% of
total passenger-km and 83% if freight traffic other than phosphates;
airports and the national airline are geared to promote tourism;ports and
railways are particularly important for the transport of various minerals,
grains and of phosphates, the country's main source of foreign exchange
revenue. The efficiency and capacity of the port oystem are key factors in
the export of phosphates, fruits and vegetables and the imports of grains,
petroleum, coal, and manufactured products. Transport services are oper-
ated by private, government owned, or mixed capital enterprises whose
tariffs and levels of service are under strong government regulation.
2.02     Priority objectives for the sector are spelled out in a Strategy
Note for the Transport Sector. issued by the Government in November 1984 in
preparation of the Consultative Group Meeting held in January of the fol-
lowing year. This Note is in the project file. The sector's objectives
are: better planning and coordination of future investments, rationaliza-
tion of the transport market, and improving the management ot the public
enterprises operating in the sector. The Note reflects the understandings
on broad sectoral objectives reached between the Government and the Bank.
B. Roads
2.03     The road network in Morocco is adequate in density to satisfy
current demand. Of the total 58,000 km of roads, 47% are paved. From 1978
to 1983 the paved road network has expanded, on average by 325 km per year,
and the unpaved roads at 190 km per year. After 1983, construction of new
roads practically stopped because of budgetary constreints. The 1981-85
Plan foresaw an investment program of about DU 3.6 billion at 1981 prices,
however, by 1983 all new investments, other than works financed under Bank
projects, were deferred beyond the Plan period. Annual expenditures,
during 1981-84, in the roads subsector stayed at about DH 400 million at
current prices, which is insufficient ta prevent an increase in the backlog
of maintenance.
2.04     Aithough the design standards of the classified roads are satis-
factory, for many roads the pavement structure has become inadequate for
the present traffic.A recent study on road maintenance carrieui out with
Bank financing under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 2254-MOR) indicates
that of the total paved network 20% is in good condition, 44% is in average
condition, and 36% is in bad condition.
2.05     The estimated budget to carry out minimum satisfactory maintenance
is in the range of DU 200-250 million per year. Current budget con-
straints, however, have reduced the maintenance allocation tu DH 136
million in 1983, DH 156 million in 1984 and DH 160 million in 1985. This
situation threatens to increase the backlog of poorly maintained roads and
makes maintenance rostlier.  The Bank is helping the Governmeîit remedy this
sitiuation with loans for road m.aintenantre and rehabilitation in the Third



-3-
and Fourth Righway Projects (Loan 1830-MOR and Loan 2254-M0R).  Both
projects are integrated into a long term Government program for the
modernization of the road network (para. 2.23).
2.06     Traffic volumes on the main highways are high.  More than 1,000
vehicles per day of which 20 to 30% are trucks, are concentrated on
5,000 km of paved roads . During the seventies, at the peak of economic
growth, traffic on many roads grew at about 6 to 10% per year.  During
1978-83, the National Transport Office (ONT), which handles the controlled
transport market, assigned about 10 million tons of goods annually to
various trucking firms. Average hauling distances are about 100 km which
is reasonable for road transport. In recent years traffic growth has
stagnated, but is expected to increase with the upturn of the economy.
Road users spend each year about US$1.6 to 2.5 billion equivalent, of which
road specific taxes represent 25 to 30%, or ten times more tax revenue than
the minimum needed for routine maintenance of the network. Fuel taxes are
adequate, and the price of fuel in Morocco correctly reflects the cost For
the import of crude oil.  Retail prices for gasoline were raised in
November 1984 to DO 6.05/liter for super, DH 5.85/liter for regular and
DH 3.45/liter for diesel fuel.
2.07     The Bank policy dialogue with the Government has focused on the
deregulation of the trucking industry and, in particular, on: (i) abolition
of the system of licensing of all trucks; (ii) allowing truckers and ship-
pers to circumvent the ONT for procurement of loads at no extra fee; (iii)
allowing tariffs to fluctuate with market conditions; and, (iv) concentrat-
ing the role of the administration on monitoring the quality and safety of
services. For passenger transport, closer inter-modal coordination is
needed both at the investment level and in the provision of services. In
particular, the urban and inter-urban services, i.e. schedules and routes
have to be better integrated. Actions toward these ends are being formu-
lated by the Ministry of Transport (MOT) within the framework of the Third
Highway Project (Loan 1830-MOR) which financed the studies on road users
costs as well as the reorganization of the ONT.
C. Railways
2.08     The railways were initially developed along the rock phosphate
routes from the mines ta the export ports of Casablanca and Safi.  They
were later extended ta the North to serve the iron ore mines in the Oujda
region and a new Line is under construction to the South to the phosphate
port of Jorf Lasfar. Passenger trains operate on most lines and a very
successful Rapid Transit Service between Casablanca and Rabat was opened to
the public in June 1984.
2.09     The 1981-85 Plan included an investment program in new lines and
rolling stock of about DH 2.9 billion, in 1981 prices. By 1984, about 50%
was fully committed for payment of past executed works and purchases of
locomotives and rolling stock. This is in line with National Railroads
Office (ONCF) average annual expenditures of about DH 60 to 90 million on
workshiops, track renewal and new line construction. In spite of the
Government efforts to cut the public investment program, the railways and
the port investments, once started, proved the hardest to reduce because in
both cases indivisible capital outlays vere involved.



- 4 -
2.10     A major portion of the investmesit program is dedicated to repair,
upgrading and replacement of existing capital. Such maintenance expendi-
tures are necessary to the extent that traffic justifies upkeep of the
capital assets. For good measure, 60 to 70% of the gross ton-kilometers
hauled by the ONCF serve the lucrative phosphate market, and about 50% of
the 1981-85 investment program pertains to that traffic . The rest of the
program is for the modernization of the system of signalling and communica-
tions, and doubling of lines. During the Public Investment Review missions
the Bank has advised against investments which were not economically and
financially justified. Government agreed to defer these investments (para.
2.19).
2.11     Rail traffic was estimated at about 28 million tons in 1983.  It
accounted for 70% of total tonnagos hauled and  and for 77.5% of the total
ton-kilometers. However, ONCF's share in the overland transport revenue is
less than 54%, because of low tarif f s imposed by the Government in exchange
for investment subsidies.  Average annual traffic has been steadily growing
from 1969 to 1984, at about 4% for freight and 8% for passengers, whereas
average annual revenues, in constant prices, have steadily declined.
2.12     At Government's request the Bank made a study on the performance
of the Moroccan Public Enterprises, including ONCF. The Bank's recommenda-
tions to improve the efficiency and the financial situation of the railway
system are followed up in the course of the preparation of the proposed
Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan (PERL). Among the reconmnendations
under review are: (i) decentralization of management decisions and improv-
ing the investment planning process; (ii) streamlining of the financial
contrDi of the railways to give it more flexibility to allocate resources;
(iii) improving the cost accounting of its operations on which to base
realistic tariff increases; and, (iv) implementation of cost saving reforms
to attain gradual financial viability without Government subsidies. Toward
the end of 1984 an agreement was reached between the Office Cherifien de
Phosphates (OCP) and the ONCF to raise phosphate tariffs to recover operat-
ing and a portion of capital depreciation costs (para. 2.22). This is a
major step i- the direction of gradually improving the railways financial
situation.
D. Ports
2.13     Three major ports in Morocco handle over 90% of the total importf
export traffic: Casablanca and Mohammedia located at about 20 km of each
other and administered as one unit, and Safi, 240 km to the southwest. (Map
IBRD 18692). Five other ports scattered along the coastline handle the
remaining 7% of the international traffic (Table 1) !'. In addition,
there are nunerous small fishing and coastal traffic ports.  During
1973-80, over two plan periods, some DH 18 billion were invested in new
ports and expansion of existing ones, and DH 3 billion in cargo handling
equipment. During the 1981-85 Plan, about DH 1.5 billion will be spent for
the construction of the new petroleum port at Mohammedia and the moderniza-
tion of the infrastructure in the minor ports (Table 2). Investments in
new infrastructure in the Port of Casablanca were deferred.
1/Ail tables are in Annex 1.



- 5 -
2.14     In spite of substantial capital investments the ports suffer from
limited storage capacity and 10w productivity, caused by outdated regula-
tions, operations and management practices. Investment policies in the
past overlooked the economic merit of alternative designs, and there was
lack of coordination between operations within tlie same port and among
ports. Pricing policies in the sector were aimed at holding down infla-
tion, rather than being used as a tool for efficient allocationi of
resources. To remedy this situation, the MPW carried out a Port Develop-
ment Program to analyze investments in ports over the next twenty years
based on their economic merits (para. 3.17). The proposed project includes
technical assistance, a study for the reorganization of ODEP and a Tariff
Study, which are designed to address Lhe above issues and help establish a
sound port organization (paras. 3.04 and 3.43). Details (if the subsector
infrastructure, organization, and traffic trends are presented in chapter
III.
E. Shipping
2.15     There are three major shipping companies in Morocco under Govern-
ment control. Together they own 84% of the total tonnage under Moroccan
flag. These are: COMANAV with 19 first generation size container ships,
RO/RO and refrigerated ships for fruits and vegetables; PETRAMAR special-
ized in the transport of crude oil and refined petroleum products,
operating 2 ships of about 90,000 dwt each as a joint venture with COMANAV;
and, MARPHOCEAN, also a joint venture ot COMANAV, the Moroccan phosphate
office (OCP) and GAZOCEAN, which operates seven phosphate rock ships of
about 10,000 dwt each.
2.16     In the late sixties, under favorable conditions of international
trade, the Government had taken the decision ta promote the national ship-
ping industry through special credits and rebates on interest paid on
investments in new ships. However, given current conditions of shipping
overcapacity the Government eliminated this program.
F. Management, Planning and Coordination
2.17     The Government agencies involved in the administration of the
transport system are: (i) the MPW, which is responsible for the construc-
tion and maintenance of roads and ports infrastructure through its Port
Directorates; it also oversees ODEP which has cargG handling, operating,
and part of the port maintenance responsibilities; (ii) the MOT, which
regulates road transport and supervises the railways, civil aviation, the
state-owned bus company and the state-owned freight forwarding agency; and
(iii) the Ministry of Fishing and the Merchant Marine which supervises
shipping. The Ministry of Planning coordinates the development plans for
these ministries and the Ministry of Finance allocates annually Government
public investment and operating funds through the annual budgets.  Special-
ized public enterprises carry out Government policies in the sector.
2.18     In practice, investment decisions within the sector and among
sectors have not been sufficiently coordinated, or adequately planned.
Complementarity between investments was not accounted for in the design and
management of a project. Consequently, the benefits from investments in
infrastructure were lower than anticipated. For instance, port projects
were designed without adequate consideration for the transport network of



- 6 -
the hinterland; or, transport facilities serving the phosphate industry
vere built sooner than neeaed and vithout adequate provisions for cost
recovery from the industry- This led to inefficient utilization of invest-
ments, lover than expected benefits and caused redesigning and other
changes late.in the investment cycle.
2.19     The 1981-85 Development Plan proposed  substantial increases in
transport investments over the two previous Plans (Table 3). [n 1983, the
rGcvernment, with Bank support, reexamined its public investment program for
possible adjustment to levels compatible with a balanced budget. The 1984
annual budget allocates about DU 1,700 million to the transport sector, of
which 29% for roads, 45% for rails, 25% for ports, and about 1% for air-
ports (Table 4). The road sector allocation is limited to maintenance and
some betterment works. Expenditures on the railways actually represent
payments on deliveries for works and rolling stock contracted in previous
years. Port investments include rehabilitation of Casablanca port and the
maintenance of a number of small coastal ports. In addition, a port
project at Agadir has been included because of favorable concessional
assistance from Spain despite a marginal economic justification based on
regional development considerations. Although the scaled-down program is
less than optimal, overall, the Government gives priority to maintenance of
infrastructure.
2.20     A slow-down in the implementation of on-going programs and invest-
ments is necessary to meet the budget resource constraint. In the coming
years efforts will concentrate on maintaining the infrastructure in place
and on increasing productivity through better management and increased
efficiency of operations. The Goveroment realizes that investments should
be economically and 'financially viable in order to attain an adequate level
of development. MPW is undertaking staff training through seminars and
technical assistance under Bank financed projects.  The Bank participated
in seminars on the economic justification of transport projects, held in
1984, in Rabat for upper echelon management and is financing under the
Fourth Highway Project experts to train the Ministry's staff in economic
evaluation of infrastructure investments.
G. Issues
2.21     Bank dialogue with the Government on sector issues and strategy to
solve them, concentrates on the following:
(M)    improving planning of investments and their coordination
between modes and across sectors;
(ii)    better utilization of the existing infrastructure through
modernization of the management of the public enterprises and
stepped up deregulation, better accountability of resources
and decentralization of decisions;
(iii)    gradual elimination of subsidies by the Government and of
cross subsidies among users, through a more flexible tariff
system and correct pricing of resources used; and
(iv)    increasing budgetary allocations for the maintenance of
infrastructure.



-7-
2.22     Steps are being taken to improve planning and coordination of
investments in the road subsector by submitting maintenance and construc-
tion prterams to prior economic analysis (Third and Fourth Highway
Projects) and, in the port subsector, through the study of long term
programs which are based on economic investment criteria for proj2ct selec-
tion. Studies are being carried out in all subsectors with Bank financing
under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects to assess the demand for road
and rail transport, the real costs of providing transport services, and to
make recommendations leading to less government control of the sector and
to a flexible pricing system, which should become an effective sector
management tool. Overall, Government policy towards public enterprises is
changing, with the emphasis on reducing subsidies, higher managerial
efficiency and the transFer of some of their operations to the private
sector. This new policy is reflected in the new organization of the port
subsector as explained in Chapter III. The PERL operation under prepara-
tion proposed, among others, financing of: (i) Transport Development Policy
Study to strengthen the planning and policy analysis capability of the MOT,
and to develop least cost solution for the routing of major transport
commodities; and (ii) Technical Assistance to the railway and the road
transport industry to increase efficiency of operations, to improve their
planning capabilities and to help them achieve financial independence.
H. Bank Assistance in the Transport Sector
2.23     The Bane provided loans totaling US$258 million equivalent to the
Moroccan Government from 1969 to 1985 for the construction, improvement and
rehabilitation of main roads under four highway projects and of rural
feeder roads under ten agricultural pc.jects (Table 5)_ No railway or port
development projects have so far been financed by the Bank- The highway
projects were designed to encourage investments with high returns to the
economy, particularly maintenance and rehabilitation, and to help build up
the staffing and organization of the agencies responsible for road
construction and maintenance and for transport coordinati.n.  The rural
roads projects have met specific needs as part of agricultural development
packages and were designed as transport and agriculture integrated invest-
ments. Bank-s involvement in financing these roads has encouraged the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform and the MPW to cooperate more
closely and consistently in determining appropriate design standards and in
making arrangements for the maintenance of these low volume roads. The
project Performance Audit Reports for the First and the Second Highway
Projects (respectively Loan 642-MOR/Credit 167-MOR and Loan 955-MOR) which
were designed to improve traffic conditions, highway maintenance and trans-
port planning, outline their successful implementation, with rates of
return above appraisal estimates despite cost overruns. Loan covenants
have been generally complied with, but progress expected on transport plan-
ning did not materialize to the extent desirable, in particular because of
split responsibilities between the ministries of transport and public
works. Disbursement lagged considerably behind the physical implementation
of the projects because of the slow processing of withdrawal requests by
the Government.



- 8 -
III. THE PORT SUBSECTOR
A. Administration, Staffing and Training
3.01     The Ministry of Public Works has overall responsibility for port
administration, planning, construction, maintenance, dredging as well as
port operations. Until end 1984 it discharged its responsibilities through
its local Port Directorates and the Régie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca
(RAPC). The latter exercised a monopoly over all cargo handling operations
'n all major ports, had a well qualified staff and was financially viable.
It paid a nominal fee to the Government for the lease of port space. The
Directorates discharged all other responsibilities of the MPW, including
all maintenance of the ports. However, since budget allocations were
insufficient, RAPC was repeatedly asked to undertake urgently needed ad-hoc
maintenance. This type of unstructured arrangements led to inefficien-
cies. With the objective to raise port efficiency, to reduce subsidies and
to restore the financial viability of the sector, Government abolished RAPC
in December 1984 and transferred all its assets to a new public enterprise,
the Office for Port Operations (ODEP), which took over cargo handling and
assumed some maintenance responsibilities previously assigned to the Port
Directorates. ODEP is a financially autonomous enterprise with industrial
and commercial character. The new division of responsibilities between
ODEP and the Port Directorates is detailed in the following paragraphs and
Table 6.
3.02     The Port Directorates are in charge of maintenance of breakwaters,
dredging, and of aLl harbor master functions: control and safety of ship
movements, berths allocation, coordination of users toward maximizing port
productivity, goods security, and leasing of port facilities to users.
They also plan investments in new nort infrastructure, paving and utilities
networks. The Port Directorates carry out their maintenance responsibili-
ties either with own staff, or it can contract out, e.g. for dredging. A
technical committee of each port chaired by the local port representative
of the MPW is consulted on all matters connected with port operations and
maintenance. The Directorate of the Port of Casablanca and Mohammedia
(DPCM), answers directly to the Minister of Public Works, while the
Directorates of the other ports report to the General Directorate of
Secondary Ports (GDSP) of the MPW, in Rabat, which oversees, plans and
coordinates their activities.
3.03     ODEP's principal functions are:
(i)    to operate in the following nine major ports: Casablanca and
Mohammedia, Agadir, Safi, Kenitra, Tangiers, Nador, Saharan
ports, Jorf Lasfar and Tan-Tan;
(ii)    to handle cargo without exercizing a monopoly; concessionary
arrangements with other entities including private operators
can be signed in the future;
(iii)    to maintain all port infrastructure except for:  breakwaters
and dredging which is done by the Port Directorates; and,
other infrastructure operated by specialized users such as
the phosphates, the grain silo operators, etc;



- 9 -
(iv)    to collect cargo-handling tariffs previously collected by
RAPC as well as the port dues previously collected by the
Directorates (para. 3.43);
(v)    to undertake at Government's request, and for its account
construction of new port infrastructure with proven financial
viability, as, for instance, the oil berths at Mohammedia and
the future container terminal projected at the same port.
3.04     The Government's long term objective is to have ODEP emerge as
either one National Port Authority, or be decentralized into a number of
local Port Authorities. As a first step, the monopoly over cargo handling
formerly detained by RAPC is abolised. Next, the study for the internal
reorganization of ODEP to be executed with financing by the proposed
project will determine the right level of decentralization to be achieved
and the feasibility of future changes in the organization, including
transfer of some activities ta the private sector and the modality and
timing of these changes (para. 3.22).
Directorate of the Ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia:
Organization, Staffing and Training
3.05     The current organization of DPCM is shown in Chart No. 1- DPCM
has the following responsibilities: security of ships and goods movements,
maintenance of the breakwaters and control towers, dredging, supervision,
control and coordination of the other entities licensed to operate in the
port area, in particular: (i) ODEP; (ii) the Société Chérifienne de
Remorquage et d'Assistance (SCRA), a private company in charge of towage;
(iii) the pilots station, a private organization; (iv) the grain silo
operator, ONICL, which leases surfaces for its installations; (v) OCP. the
phosphate exporting enterprise, operating from a pier leased on a long-term
basis; and, (vi) the customs office which operates under the control of the
Ministry of Finance.
3.06     DPCM has three Departments: central services, port operations and
engineering. Overall. although its staffing is adequate and of good
quality, DPCM has suffered a high turnover of its engineers, because
salaries are not competitive. As of January 1985, the staff responsible
for maintenance was transferred to ODEP where salaries are higher; this
should reduce the turnover and ensure proper maintenance. Moreover, all
port labor will be gradualLy retrained following the implementation of the
TRAINMAR program. This system of port personnel training modules success-
fully developed and operated by UNCTAD in several countries will be adapted
to local conditions by a UNDP team in cooperarion with ODEP with financing
by the proposed project.
3.07     The department of port operations has a staff of about 170.  In
particular, it includes two units in charge of statistics and the control
of port operators, which need to be strengthened. Technical assistance to
be financed under the proposed project will strengthen these two units in
the area of safety, coordination of port users, and supervision of cargo
handling, by improving port statistics and their analysis (para. 4.03(h)).



- 10 -
ODEP: General Organization, Staffing and Training
3.08     ODEP has offices and personnel on duty in each of the ports where
it operates, but its headquarters are located in Casablanca. Decision on
policy matters including planning, pricing, personnel management and
procurement, and supervision of both finances and operations are carried
out from headquarters. A wholly-owned subsidiary of ODEP carries out
dredging in ail ports on behalf of the Government, which provides most of
the equipment used.
ODEP Headguarters
3.09     Chart 2 shows the organization of ODEP's headquarters.  The Board,
chaired by the Minister of Public Works, on behalf of the Prime Minister,
includes representatives from 9 other ministries, customs, GDSP and DPCM-
Users are also represented, and have the right to vote. The Board meets
twice a year; between sessions authority is delegated to the Management
Committee, which meets once a month, and to the General Manager of ODEP
which is appointed by the MPW. Headquarters employs about 50 professional
staff assigned to four departments as follows:
(i)    administration and personnel, with a staff of 20;
(ii)    operations, with 20 people in marketing, planning and
economic evaluation functions; some staff has already been
trained overseas, more will be sent to courses on fellowships
financed by the proposed project (para. 4.03(d));
(iii)    machinery and equipment, has a staff of 4 people to handle
procurement matters, including the definition of a policy for
standardization of port equipment (para. 3.19); a new
division will be set up to supervise its share of the port
maintenance with staff transferred from the DPCM; and
(iv)    the f inancial department, which is made up of 3 divisions:
budget and financial planning; general accounting; and
inspection. Current staffing is limited to 4 professionals;
however, 10 more are to be hired. ODEP has started to recruit
financial staff and 2 are already in the field to familiarize
themselves with all procedures in use. Technical assistance
will be provided under the proposed project to help ODEP's
management with the following functions: (i) internal audit;
(ii) budgetary control; (iii) management of cash; (iv) cost
accounting; and, (v) inventory control (paras. 3.36 and 4.18).
ODEP in the Port of Casablanca
3.10     ODEP operating unit in the port of Casablanca had about 2200
staff, as of December 1984, distributed among 11 departments as indicated
in Chart No. 3. In addition, ODEP's payroll in Casablanca includes some
1000 dockers employed on a regular basis. The conditions for employment
are constrained by Government regulation regarding the authorized number of
staff and the salary scales. The dock labor force is strongly unionized.



- Il -
3.11     This unit includes also the Electronie Data Processing (EDP)
department which partly centralizes the accounting data, payroll and port
statistics. The EDP system is nov being revised ta integrate all aspects
of management in all ports. Consultants were hired to make an evaluation
of the needs and to devise alternative equipment scenarios. Conclusions
were submitted to ODEP in December 1984. They will be revised to integrate
processing of the port statistics needed by the DPCM and to incorporate the
conclusions of the Reorganization Study. The management information system
specialist will be hired under the proposed project to help implement these
(para. 4.18).
3.12     ODEP-s staffing and organization are adequate to carry out its
tasks. Still, the diversity of its functions and the geographical disper-
sion of port units call for better understanding of the costs and advan-
tages of this organizational scheme and of possible alternatives. The
Reorganization Study to be undertaken by ODEP with Bank financing will make
recommendations on the optimal level of decentralization. The study, and
the specialists hired under the technical assistance program wil; make
recommendations to improve personnel management, maintenance and the
reorganization of workshops for cargo handling equipment maintenance.
Better control of performance indicators will allow headquarters to super-
vise effectively the local units as regards operations, use of equipment,
personnel and financial management. The technical assistance proposed in
the project is designed to assure good coordination between the consultants
in charge of the Reorganization Study and the other experts, in particular,
those dealing with operations, finance and equipment utilization (para.
4.18).
B. Infrastructure and its Development
3.13     Morocco has some twenty ports along its Atlantic and Mediterranean
coasts (Map IBRD 18692). The existing port infrastructure, if well main-
tained and better managed, is sufficient to serve the traditional sea borne
traffic. The Port of Casablanca has a modest container terminal, served by
two berths 225 m long and 9 m deep, three Ro-Ro berths, 30 general cargo
berths, 3.5 km long, and a wharf with eight berths for handling phosphate
exports and coal imports. Details of Casablanca's port facilities are
given in Annex 2. The container terminal is capable of receiving first
generation container ships of up to 14,000 dwt, or some 750 TEU's if, but
it is poorly equipped to service modern large ships. As containerization
of general cargo continues to grow at about, 6% p.a. and, under the pressure
of world wide trends in cargo shipping technology, Morocco will need a
modern container terminal either at Casablanca or Mohammedia, capable of
servicing container ships 200-225 m long and requiring a berth 12 m deep.
3.14     The port of Mohammedia, 20 km North of Casablanca, has been
recently expanded and a petroleum terminal was built with a potential
capacity of up to 10 million tons of crude and products. The first two
crude oil berths to be completed in 1985 have an annual capacity of about
five million tons which is sufficient for the current petroleum import
needs. The port could be further expanded to include a modern container
terminal and a deep water berth 15 m deep. The newly constructed port of



- 12 -
Jorf Lasfar, south of Casablanca, is designed to take over all additional
growth in phosphate rock export and to provide port facilities for import
of sulfuric acid and export of phosphoric acid.  It, too, has a deep water
berth 15 m deep which is already used to unload high volume dry bulk cargo
ships.
3.15     The port of Agadir, serving the Souss area in the South, is often
occupied by the Royal Navy. Plans are underway to strengthen its position
as the country's principal fishing port by expanding the refrigerated area
and providing facilities to relocate the Moroccan deep ocean fishing fleet
which presently operates from Las Palmas. A new facility for general
cargo, export of minerals, copper and barytine, and for import of cereals
will be needed after 1995 to serve the south west region. The Port
Development Program a-d an economic evaluation of the new port of Agadir
support this conclusion. Still, the Government is taking advantage of
special concessionary funding through bilateral aid for the construction of
the new port, and plans to have it operational by 1989-90 (para. 3.27).
3.16     The configuration of the coastline and the regional patterns of
economic infrastructure in the hinterland limits the choice of a container
terminal te the ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia, and the construction of
deep water berths specialized for dry bulk at Mohammedia and Jorf Lasfar,
with the location of a coal terminal at Mohammedia- IFC is currently
discussing with the Government an investment scheme to bring coal at
Mohammedia through a pollution free terminal.  This location fits both
economic objectives of minimizing total transport cost and facilitating
energy conservation (para. 3.31(v)).
3.17     The GDSP in the MPW has completed a twenty years Port Investment
Program, which analyzes alternative scenarios for export-import traffic
growth and for patterns of its assignment to coastal ports. A set of
assumptions was retained to forecast traffic trends at each port, and the
corresponding investment needs were defined. In line with Bank advice, the
traffic forecasts were modified to reflect the low growth trend, and the
proposed port investment program is now accompanied by an economic justifi-
cation of each project proposal. During project implementation the Govern-
ment will continue to exchange views with the Bank on its port development
plans and overall sector policies. The Transport Development and Policy
Study proposed for financing in the PERL project in preparation would
integrate the port investment proposals into a multi-modal least cost
investment program.
C. Maintenance
3.18     Responsibility for maintenance of port facilities was, until the
end of 1984, shared by the Port Directorates and RAPC; the former for port
infrastructure and the latter for cargo handling equipment. The 1981-85
investment budgets included important allocations for the maintenance,
1/ Twenty feet equivalent units.



- 13 -
rehabilitation, and modernization of the secondary ports. By contrast, in
the port of Casablanca, maintenance of infrastructure has been severely
neglected in the past several years. As a result, roads, storage areas,
water supply. transit sheds, drainage and electrical systems have fallen in
disrepair and need urgent rehabilitation. The proposed project addresses
this issue (paras. 4.03 to 4.08). On the other hand, maintenance of cargo
handling equipment has been adequately carried out by RAPC's workshops,
supported by private repairing companies located outside the port. Spare
parts were generally available as needed and funds allocated for equipment
maintenance were sufficient. It is estimated that, in addition to the
rehabilitation works financed under the proposed project, an annual alloca-
tion of US$1.0 million equivalent in the Government's Budget and US$3
million equivalent in ODEP's budget is needed to assure satisfactory main-
tenance of Moroccan ports. An additional US$800,000 equivalent will be
annually needed to maintain the Casablanca breakwater and US$2.5 million
equivalent to maintain the other port facilities, after completion of the
rehabilitation works done under the proposed project (para. 6.11).
3.19     Since January, 1985, ODEP is responsible for maintenance of port
infrastructure, except for breakwaters and dredging, and has taken over
from RAPC the responsibility and the means to carry out maintenance of
cargo handling equipment. ODEP has four workshops, seven qualified
engineers, 15 technicians, and 200 skilled labor, to carry out maintenance
of equipment, which is adequate. Rate of equipment availability is 70% on
average, which is satisfactory; the other 30% of the equipment is under
repair or preventive maintenance. The workshop specialist to be provided
under the project as well as staff training will add to the quality of
maintenance and reduce its cost (para. 4.18).
3.20     Senior staff of the DPCM recently transferred to ODEP, although
qualified, is not sufficient to carry out adequately port maintenance.
ODEP will assign as necessary, qualified civil engineers and electrical
engineers for the maintenance of the port of Casablanca. ODEP agreed
during negotiations to prepare a detailed report for Bank review at the end
of each calendar year on maintenance works carried out during the year and
their costs, as well as works scheduled for each of the following calendar
year. This and other actions to be undertaken by ODEP during project
implementation are described in the Action Plan. Its details are givea in
Annex 3.
D. Operations
3.21     Cargo handling and stevedoring in Moroccan ports is satisfactory.
Equipment in use is satisfactorily operated, although its deployment is
sub-optimal. Most ports operate one shift per day except for Casablanca
where two shifts are in place, as needed, but the working day for steve-
dores, on ship, does not coincide with that of the dockers, on s:ore. With
better organization, productivity in handling general cargo can be
improved.  Instances of satisfactory performance are to be found in loaGing
of palletized fruits and vegetables, which vary from 20 to 25 metric tons
per hook per hour without major damages, while discharging bales of
polyester fibre reach 25 metric tons per hook per hour. On the other hand,
handling of other conventional cargo and containers is poor, as they



- 14 -
average about 350 tons and 110 boxes, respectively per day of ship service
time.  Average productivity measures attained in the port are given in
Table 7. The major issues in general cargo operations in the Port of
Casablanca are: (i) divided responsibilities and lack of coordination in
cargo handling on board the ship and on1 shore, which affects productivity
and goods safety; (ii) inefficient utilization of the railways; and, (iii)
lack of enforcement of safety regulations relating to flammable cargo and
movements of containers. A detailed report on port operations is available
in the Project File.
3.22     As a first step to solve these issues, the Government abolished
RAPC's monopoly on cargo handling. This gives the MPW flexibility. The
proposed project will finance the reorganization study, technical assist-
ance, and training benefitting boti ODEP and DPCM: (i) to investigate solu-
tions for the streamlining of cargo handling operations from ship to shed;
(ii) to coordinate port operators to improve service to the ship and to
reduce ship and cargo waiting time; to cuntrol and enforce productivity
norms and safe working practices; and to coordinate and make aware all port
users including customs, shippers and traders as to their direct role ir.
improving throughput in the Port of Casablanca and the effects it can have
on export promotion; (iii) to improve equipmer.t deployment; and, (iv) to
rationalize container movements (para. 4.18); aind, (v) to rationalize the
tariff structure.
3.23     Preeminent in improving conventional cargo operations, container
turn-around times, and cargo throughput in the Port of Casablanca is the
urgent requirement to hasten cargo documentation and clearance procedures,
including new customs procedures.  A detailed report on customs procedures
and their repercussions on cargo flows through the Port of Casablanca is
available in the Project File. It is expected that, as a result of the
reorganization of customs, the time goods are held for customs clearance
will be dropped from four to two days.  As of September 1, 1985 customs has
introduced new procedures with a view to accelerate clearances and monitor
the performance of its customs officers.
3.24     There is an imperative need to simplify, rationalize, and
standardize essential documents and procedures involved in the passing of
goods through the port. Gradually, computer intercommunications will
replace conventional transfer of information by paper documents. Under the
adjustment program supported by the Bank's Second Industrial and Trade
Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA II), the Government has established a
Committee for simplification of Foreign Trade Procedures to improve and
streamline all documentation procedures affecting passage of cargo through
the Port of Casablanca. Under the proposed project the Government agreed
to develop by end 1986 improved procedures involved in the import and
export of goods through the Port of Casablanca and to ensure that they are
published, available to the public and applied no later June 30, 1987.
3.25     Technical assistance under the proposed project will help improve
cargo and container terminal operations and will also liaise and partici-
pate in the work of this Committee to ensure comprehensive coverage of all
official and commercial interests in port procedures. In addition, the



- 15 -
system analyst provided under the proposed project would assist in inte-
grating DPCM into ODEP's data processing systems, and in developing the
data base necessary for analyzing the causes and costs of cargo delays in
the Port of Casablanca.
3.26     ODEP will undertake with DPCM's help, in accordance with an agreed
schedule in the Action Plan, an investigation of the incidence and causes
of delays to cargo, vehicles and vessels with respect to import and export
traffic through the port of Casablanca, identify and assess associated
costs, including those borne by the port and by businesses using the port,
and report accordingly, with specific recommendations to reduce these
delays.
E. Financing of Port Investments and Operations
3.27     Investments in port infrastructure were financed by Government
from various sources. Foreign loans cover some 60% of total 1980-85
investment costs. One major lender was the Saudi Fund which invested about
DHI.1 billion in the last eight years for the construction of the ports of
Jorf Lasfar and Nador. The European Community, either directly, or through
the European Investment Bank, financed DH 0.3 billion toward the develop-
ment of Jorf Lasfar, Safi, Agadir and Mohammedia. The Italian Government
invested through a bilateral aid agreement some DH 0.2 billion equivalent
for the construction of the petroleum port at Mohammedia. The Government
of Spain made in 1984 a loan of about US$150 million equivalent at highly
concessional terms for the construction of the new port of Agadir.
3.28     Port charges for services offered to ships and cargo should com-
pensate Government for operating and maintenance costs as well as recover
capital related costs. This was apparently achieved at the port of
Casablanca, because, as shown in the Table below, investments were limited
and major maintenance was deferred during 1980-84.
Port of Casablanca - Sources and Applications obf Funds
(Current DH '000)
1980      1981       1982       1983      1984
Sources
Cash from Operations         21,064    20,519    13,872    29,354        29,907
Government Budget             12,150     7,700          -          -           -
Applications
Investments, Repair          24,150    17,160    14,069    18,750        17,667
Financial Cost               11,168    11,059    10,992    13,794        14,610
Subtotal              35,318    28,219    25,061    32,544        32,277
Deficit                       (2,104)        -   (11,189)   (3,190)    (2,370)
Note: The 1984 data are provisional



- 16 -
3.29     In the other ports revenues from port charges were channelled
directly to the General Budget, and had ta be supplemented by other budge-
tary resources. Over 1980-84, revenues collected in those ports amounted
to DH 90 million while their working expenses amounted to DH 105 million.
Consequently, the Government bore the cost of all investments and compen-
sated the ports for operating losses evaluated at about DH 15 million.
3.30     Until 1985, cost recovery of Government investments relied on
applying over 20 years an 8% charge for debt servicing ta the investment
funds in the General Budget, and corrected by a coefficient corresponding
to the share of all Government foreign borrowings at a given time. Over-
all, the cost recovery was inadequate, as the amount of debt servicing
reflected a budget estimate rather than a cost estimate of the investment.
Moreover, no cost recovery was attempted for the investments in Mohanunedia,
Jorf Lasfar and Tangiers. A new system, starting January 1985 is based on
a fee paid to the Government by ODEP and evaluated for 1985 at about DH 40
million per annum. Still, this is too low (para. 6.13). In order to
ensure that the Government will gradually recover the cost of its invest-
ments, the proposed project is financing studies and technical assistance
to revise the fee and its definition (para. 6.14), and level and structure
of tariffs (paras. 3.43 and 4.18). Furthermore, port dues and other port
charges were raised by an average of 25% as of August 1985 in an effort to
align port costs with the tariffs charged to users (paras. 3.43 and 6.17).
F. Traffic
3.31     Total Moroccan import-export port traffic was about 34 million
tons by 1979, of which some 26 million tons, or 76%, passed through the
ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia. Of the total traffic, about 20 million
tons were phosphates of which some 17 million tons left through Casablanca,
and about 3 million tons crude imported through Mohammedia. General cargo
traffic amounted to about 2 million tons, of which 29% was containerized.
Traffic in the ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia grew until 1978. In 1979
it took a plunge in response to worsening economic conditions, a decline in
GNP by some 1.3%, and steadily decreasing trade volumes (Table 8). From
1980 to 1983, ports traffic grew at about 2% p.a. This growth rate is
expected to continue for the next five years, but traffic distribution
among the country's ports is changing in response to shifts in the type of
traded goods, and as a result oi a policy of decentralization away from
Casablanca. The following shifts were noticed and are expected to continue
during project implementation:
(i)    the rate of containerization doubled in 5 years, from 10% in
1976 to 19% in 1981, representing an average growth rate of
6% per year. In spite of decreasing overall general cargo
traffic, containerization is expected to further accelerate
in the eighties (Table 9);
(ii)    RO/RO traffic, which is concentrated in Casablanca, has
levelled off in spite of a promise for rapid growth;
(iii)    phosphatc related traffic has resumed its growth in 1983, in
particular the phosphoric and sulphuric acids passing through
the ports of Safi and Jorf Lasfar;



- 17 -
(iv)    solid bulk, mainly grains discharged over general cargo
berths, have reached in 1981 unexpected levels, of about 1
million tons in the Port of Casablanca alone. Population
growth and overall increase in demand for wheat have caused
grain imports to continue, although below the peak experi-
enced during the drought of 1981. Still, it is estimated
that grain imports will reach some 2 to 5 million tons per
year by year 2000. The Government intends to integrate
domestic production into the system of grain imports, storage
and distribution;
(v)    as part of the energy sufficiency plan, the Government has
converted the power plant at Mohammedia to coal and expects
to start as soon as 1986 importing across the Atlantic at the
rate of 600, to 800,000 tons per year. The imports should
reach up to 2 million tons after 1990, if the demand for the
cement plants in the region is added. The revised Port
Development Program of May 1985 proposes Mohammedia as the
optimum location of the high volume coal terminal.
3.32     The proposed port project is designed to improve the efficiency of
port operations in the Port of Casablanca under conditions of low traffic
growth, by financing port repairs and rehabilitation.  It will also help
improve productivity of the existing facilities and prepare for the tran-
sition to modern port facilities to meet the future traffic demand at least
cost to the ports system (para. 4.02).
G. Accounting, Budgeting, Auditing, Insurance
The Port Directorate of Casablanca and Mohammedia
3.33     All Port Directorates keep separate accounts which follow the
Government system of budget accounting.  In the General Budget, the
accounts are broken down into chapters and articles for recurrent expendi-
tures, and lines and sub-sections for capital expenditures with no organic
tie between revenues and expenses. The budget is approved by the Parlia-
ment and its execution is closely controlled. The Port Directorates keep
two separate accounts for commitments and for payments, which at year-end
show similar amounts, because outstanding commitments and related credits
are cancelled in accordance with Government practice. Only unused credits
for capital expenditures can be carried over with the Ministry of
Finance's approval. Accounting for the payroll is kept at ministerial
level.
3.34     The Port Director may commit funds within a DH 30,000 limit, above
which the Financial Controller of the region must give his clearance.
Funds are disbursed by the Regional Treasurer, based on applications
submitted by the Port Directorate. The Controller and the Treasurer are
both employed by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance and the
Cour des Comptes audit these accounts. Overall, the system is safe, but it
interferes with the flow of operations and it produces information of
limited analytical value to manage assets. This system of accounting does
not provide regular information on the value of fixed assets which are
recorded at their historical value without depreciation. This inadequacy
will be remedied with assistance from the proposed project (para. 6.15).



- 1.8 -
ODEP
3.35     Accounting follows the rules applicable to all public enterprises
in Morocco, and it is carried out satisfactorily. The system is decentra-
lized and accounting is fully computerized in Casablanca, Mohammedia and
Nador, and partly in Tangiers. Two sets of accounts are normally kept, the
Manager's and the budget accounts. The General Manager's accounts follow
the French Chart of Accounts, dated 1957, and are a consolidation of the
local port accounts. The Chief of Accounts representing the Ministry of
Finance, inside ODEP, is responsible for disbursements and keeps a budget
account. Based in Casablanca, he supervises delegates recently appointed
in other ports ta act on his behalf. The accounting system has improved
over the last three years, but still shows deficiencies in consistency,
accuracy, and analytical potential which will be addressed by technical
assistance tinder the proposed project. Within two years ODEP's accoursting
system is expected to be fully computerized.
3.36     Expert services will focus on: (i) codifying the accounting inter-
pretation of any particular transaction at each port; (ii) firming up of
accotnting for stores and fixed assets;  (iii) introducing a cost account-
ing and a budgetary control system; and (iv) improving the documentary
procedures. The methodology for reevaluation of all Government-financed
assets has been reviewed with the Bank and is satisfactory. The Cavernment
financed assets to be carried in the ODEP's books, as a proforma balance
sheet, will show depreciation and new additions; these assets, revalued
from time to time as appropriate, will serve as a basis to calculate the
fee that ODEP will pay to the Government for their use (para. 6.15).
3.37     The current budget follows a standard classification by chapter,
article and paragraph. The capital budget lists expenses by article and
paragraph which are integrated in a rolling five-year plan. Draft budgets
are prepared by each port manager and reviewed at headquarters, based on
the general corporate strategy and governmental guidances regarding employ-
ment policy and cost control. The draft budgets are also reviewed by a
tripartite commission which includes the Ministries of Finance, MPW and
ODEP. The final budget is submitted annually for approval by ODEP's Board.
3.38     The Ceneral Manager has extensive power to execute the budget and
commit funds, subject to clearance by the Financial Controller for expendi-
tures above DH 50,000. The Fin icial Controller is permanenitly assigned to
ODEP by the Ministry of Finance to ensure that C-overnment legislation is
fully respected, especially concerning bidding and salary policies; he also
has authority to reallocate funds between articles, whereas their realloca-
tion. between chapters must be authorized at ministerial level. The central
system works reasonably well in that no spending can be done without proper
authorization. But, budget preparation must be rationalized to ensure that
authorized spendings are fully justified economically and financially.
Technical assistance under the proposed project will provide expertise to
streamline budgeting, to create an internal audit function, and to ensure
that spending is financially justified (paras. 4.03 (d) and 4.18).



- 19 -
3.39     Each port produces monthly statements showing budget execution,
summarized by article. The accounts are consolidated at year-end and sub-
mitted to the Board for approval. ODEP has decided to adopt the practice
of auditing by an independent commercial auditar. The accounts of the
RAPC, its predecessors were already audited in 1984 by Price Waterhouse in
association with a local auditing firm. International auditing firms are
well represented in Morocco and at negotiations, it was agreed that the
bL.rower will maintain appropriate accounts, including separate Project
accounts and will have its accounts and financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that the audit report will
be submitted to the Bank not later than six months following the end of
each fiscal year, except for 1985, 1986 and 1987 when the dates of submis-
sion of audited financial statements will be extended to 9 months to al1ow
for adjustments to the accounting system, including streamlininig of its
procedures and generalization of its computerization to alt ports.
Insurance
3.40     ODEP maintains adequate insurance for its equipment and for cover-
age of risks related to custodial roae for goods in storage. It is self-
insured for its personnel. This system is adequate.
H. Tariffs
3.41     Proposals for tarift increases are reviewed by the Central Commis-
sion on Prices and approved by the Minister of Finance, based on proposals
made by the MPW and ODEP.
3.42     Port pricing policy to date failed to achieve satisfactory cost
recovery and the tariff structure is inadequate.  Uniform rates apply to
all ports, with some exceptions regarding cargo handling charges, and revi-
sion of some rates which occurred randomly. Costing data are not yet
available for adequate pricing purposes. As they are now, port tariffs:
(i) discriminate against containerized goods; (ii) do not charge the ship-
owners their fair share of infrastructure cost; and, (iii) fail to give
incentives for prompt delivery of cargo. Overall, the charging for storage
is unduly intricate, blurring the relation between the total daily cost and
the duration of storage. The sliding scale must be revised to penalize
more effectively the goods using the port for storage and the leases of
port areas should adequately reflect their current value.
3.43     After the cargo handling tariffs and port dues increase effective
August 1985, the port pricing issues will be addressed by the Tariff Study,
to be financed by the proposed project and due for completion by mid-1986.
The new port dues vill be raised and restructured to generate sufficient
revenues to recover the cost of maintenance and construction included in
the fee payable to the Government by ODEP.  The fee will be gradually
raised to ensure normal investment cost recovery by the Government. The
results of cost accounting data will be used to identify how cost centers
relate to profits, and to avoid cross-subsidization among users (para.
6.15). Moreover, by linking ODEP'S revenues to the cost of the services
rendered, and the fee payable to the Government to the value of government
assets used, the new system will encourage ODEP to enter financially sound
operations and should discourage non economic port expansion by the Govern-
ment.



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
4.01     The proposed project viii assist the Government to develop a sound
port subsector. Bank participation in the rebabilitation and maintenance
of the ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia viil support the future develop-
ment of the sector, including an appropriate port administration and
greater efficiency in operations. The main project objectives are:
(a) to improve the operational efficiency of the Port of
Casablanca and minimize port users costs including damage to
cargo and equipment;
(b) to integrate port activities into the country's effort ta
promote exports and improve management and financial viabil-
ity of the sector's major public enterprise; and
(c) to prepare for a rational expansion of port infrastructure.
4-02     The means to achieve these objectives are:
(a) higher efficiency, through: (i) maintenance and rehabilita-
tion of existing infrastructure; (ii) improved control and
administration of port operations through adequate port
statistics on productivity; enforcement of safety and secur-
ity, and gradual privatization of clearly identifiable port
operations; and, (iii) modernization of the management of the
major port operators through studies, operating expertise in
equipment utilization, financial management and training of
personnel;
(b) export promotion, better management and financial viability
through: (i) simplified customs procedures; (Hi) mo-dern con-
tainer handling operations and procedures; (iii) improved
tariff structure and better cost control; and, (iv) organized
training, including seminars to make customs, banking and
transit procedures known to all port users; and
(c) preparation for a rational expansion and modernization of
ports and their institutions through: (i) expert advice ta
promote containerization; and (ii) implementing a sound cost
recovery policy.
B. Description
4.03     The proposed project '%Map IBRD 18693) will be executed by ODEP,
but functionally it is divided into two parts: Part A addressing ODEP's
assigned responsibilites in the Port of Casablanca and Part B aimed at
assisting DPCM with its maintenance functions in the ports of Casablanca
and Mohammedia.



- 21 -
Part A includes:
(a) rebabilitation of existing port infrastructure in Casablanca
including: paved areas; drainage, W?tv-r and electrical
systems; transit sheds; ship-repair facilities; workshops;
and Ro-Ro ramps;
(b) provision of woricshop equipment to replace old and obsolete
equipment at ODEP's workshops in Casablanca;
(c) provision of technical assistance to ODEP for: (i) prepara-
tion of tender documents; (ii) help in supervision of civil
works and equipment purchases; (iii) reorganization of work-
shops; (iv) modernization of the ship-repair facilities; (v)
improvement of port operations, including container handling
and storage and improved control and monitoring through
modern data management systems; (vi) a study on the reorgani-
zation of ODEP's administration and improvement of its f inan-
cial management including budgetary and inventory control,
internal audit, and identifying port operations suitable for
privatization, cost accounting, and management information
system; (vii) a study to define a new tariff structure; and
(d) ODEP's staff training through: (i) fellowships for engineers;
(ii) development of the TRAINMAR system to improve the skills
of all levels of port labor and staff; and (iii) on-the-job
training proviced by the technical assistance specialists in
4.03(c).
Part B includes:
(e) dredging of Casablanca port to achieve originally available
depth in front of deep water berths and in the port basin;
Cf)  rehabilitation of Casabla-ca port breakwater and control
tower;
(g) provision of a heavy-lifting crane, concrete mixer and trans-
port equipinent needed to maintain the recently built break-
water at rmohammedia part;
(h) provision of technical assistance for: (i) preparation of
tender documents; (ii) help in supervision of civil works and
equipment purchase; and (iii) improvement of general cargo
operations; and (iv) review of customs procedures; and ;
Ci) DPCM's staff training through fellowships for engineers and
other staff.
Details of project description are given in Annex 4.



- 22 -
C. Engineering Aspects
4.04     Civil works included in the project are limited to rehabilitation
of existing port facilities. Similar rehabilitation works were carried out
periodically by DPCM, except for the last three to four years when budge-
tary constraints forced a slow down in maintenance and rehabilitation
works. The scope and type of the proposed works are based on investiga-
tions and studies carried out by DPCM's engineers and revised and updated
by the preappraisal and appraisal missions. Tender documents have been
prepared by DPCM's engineers, but need to be reviewed to make them accept-
able for ICB. Engineering consultants to be financed under the proposed
project prepared final engineering, and adapted the tender documents as
required for ICB based on the preliminary engineering by DPCM.
Paving and Drainage
4.05     The existing roads, storage areas and transit sheds have uneven
surfaces and forklift trucks are dropping cargo and stacking is rough.
This has resulted in damage to cargo and to handling equipment, and has
reduced productivity. DPCM has prepared preliminary studies of works
needed to rehabilitate the port, some of which have already started.
Damage to surface is uneven throughout the port. Rehabilitation work to be
carried out under the proposed project will rectify the situation. Because
of a poor and obsolete drainage system, certain areas of the port were
flooded on several occasions, resulting in severe damage to cargo and
equipment. The drainage ducts are covered by steel grates that are easily
broken. A new system is now being adopted to replace these grates by
concrete slabs. Moreover, part of the city's drainage system, including
sewerage disposal, is channelled through the port. The proposed project
will provide for a new modern, stable and efficient drainage system within
the port area.
Water Supplv and Electrical Systems
4.06     The port is divided into seven distinct water supply networks,
each with metered outlets for customers, ships, and fire hydrants.  The
petroleum berths have special vater cannons with high operating pressures.
The existing water distribution system is frequently out of order, with
significant loss of water and Low pressure.  The system needs upgrading to
meet the requirements of all port customers, including ships that have to
be simultaneously supplied with water, and new, larger supply line have to
be installed. The new system provided under the proposed project will
incorporate, as much as possible, parts of the existing seven networks and
the whole system will be integrated to provide balanced pressures, metered
outlets, and fire hydrants.
4.07     The electrical system capacity is inadequate to provide enough
light to ensure safe and efficient night operations and to reduce pilferage
and tampering with goods inside the transit sheds as well as in open stor-
age areas. The problem is particularly acute in the zone allocated to
ship-repair facilities as well as in some transit sheds and on some roads.
The system needs rehabilitation, upgrading and replacement of damaged poles
and cables.



- 23 -
Transit Sheds
4.08     Floors, doors, roofs and electrical systems of all transit sheds
need repair or replacement.  The structural steel frames need cleaning,
painting and repairing.
Ro-Ro Ramps
4.09     The port has three Ro-Ro berths adjacent to each other.  Hinged
floating ramps vere provided at each berth because of the relatively high
tidal range (3.6 m).  However, one of them has been completely destroyed as
a result of an accident. The three berths, installed about eight years ago
as temporary facilities, are dangerously close to each other. ODEP decided
to replace the three ramps by two new ones of a modern type using better
operating techniques. The engineering consultants will study the type and
size of Ro-Ro ships using Casablanca port and assess the most appropriate
type of structure suitable for these ships. The consultants will prepare
the tender documents as needed, however, detailed design and drawings will
be left to the manufacturers, as they have the best practical expertise in
this field.
Ship-Repair Facilities
4.10     The area used for repairing floating craft and sea going ships
needs major rehabilitation. Several sheds have to be demolished and
replaced. The engineering consultants will prepare a comprehensive master
plan for the area, to be discussed with the Bank and ODEP before the prep-
aration of tender documents. Work will include: demolition, new build-
ings, paving, electrical, water supply and drainage works and will be based
on actual and future needs of the port as well as of the private sector.
Workshop Equipment and Sheds
4.11     ODEP owns and operates four workshops to maintain its cargo
handling and transport equipment. In addition, it contracts with some
seven private companies located outside the port to assist in these main-
tenance operations. Under the proposed project, a workshop expert will be
assigned ta ODEP for two years to reorganize ODEP's workshops and recommend
the moast economical maintenance means and procedures, including the option
of contracting out maintenance. Nevertheless, some workshop equipment
available to ODEP is about 40 years old, in poor condition, and need to be
scrapped and replaced. The number. type and performance requirements of
equipment to be purchased under the project have been agreed with t1m
Bank. In addition, one of ODEP's workshops which now occupies an area
needed for open storage has to be relocated. The location of this shed
will be determined on the basis of a study to be carried out by the work-
shop expert provided under the proposed project.
Dredging
4.12     The available depths in front of the deep-water berths and in the
harbor are about one meter less than originally provided. Dredging works
provided under the proposed project will rectify the situation. Additional
maintenance dredging is not expected before five years.



- 24 -
Casablanca's Breakwater and Control Tower
4.13     In the past, DPCM used to regularly maintain the breakwater armor
layer by placing 100 t concrete blocks in locations, chosen merely on the
basis of visual observation, to replace blocks displaced or broken through
storm wave action. Although about 200 blocks have been needed annually in
the past, maintenance has been neglected in recent years. In addition, the
concrete batching plant is in poor condition. Rehabilitation works pro-
vided under the proposed project will rectify the situation. However,
adequate maintenance needs to be continuously provided thereafter. The two
story building now used to house the control tower needs major repair. In
addition, the communications equipment on the top of the building for con-
tacting ships and controlling ship movement is in poor condition and needs
to be replaced. The new equipment provided under the proposed project will
help determine weather conditions in Casablanca and its influence on ship
arrival patterns.
Mohammedia's Breakwater
4.14     An extension of the above breakwater was completed in 1984.  Con-
tractor's equipment used for breakwater construction is still on site, but
is expected to be removed upon termination of the contract guarantee
period, scheduled for end 1985. Suitable replacement equipment will be
needed to ensure adequate maintenance especially after heavy storms. These
will include a heavy lifting crane capable of placing 60 ton concrete armor
blocks, a concrete plant, and transport equipment to carry the blocks from
the casting yard to the breakwater. The engineering consultants will study
and propose the most suitable equipment.
D. Cost Estimate
4.15     The total cost of the project (Parts A and B) is estimated at
US$41 million equivalent, of which about US$22 million (54%) is the foreign
exchange component. Part A is estimated to cost US$26 million equivalent
of which some US$13 million in foreign currency, and Part B is estimated to
cost US$15 million equivalent of which about US$9 million in foreign
currency. Cost estimates are summarized below and details are given in
Table 10(A) for Part A and Table 10(B) for Part B of the proposed project.
Project cost estimate has been discussed with the Government and ODEP and
was confirmed during negotiations. Physical contingencies of 15% on civil
works is considered appropriate coverage since final engineering has not
yet been prepared. Physical contingencies on equipment and technical
assistance are set at 10%. Price contingencies have been provided for all
project items as follows: 12% annually on local expenditures incurred in
1985, 10% in 1986 and 6% in 1987, 1988 and 1989 and 5% annually on foreign
expenditures incurred in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8% in 1987, 1988 and 1989.



X of
DH Million                    USS Million a/              Base
Local gi   Forelan   Total    Local hi   Foreian   IïTl          Cost
Rehabilitation             l12.75       108,35   211.10    10.07        10.62    20.69       68.0
Equipment                    27.67       38.20    65.88      2.71        3.74      6.45      22.0
Technical assistanc#'         9.39       21.93    31.32       0.91       2.16      .D07      10.0
Total base costD'      1l39L8      168.48   308R28    13.69         16.52    30.21    100.0
Physical contingencyE'       19.11       22.26    41.37      1.87        2.17      4.05      13.0
Price contingencyFI          35f42       33.72    69.14      3.47        3.31       .78      2.0
Total contingencies          54L53       55.98   110.51      5.34        5.49    10.83    23.
Total Project Cost          194.33      224.46   418.79    19.03        22.01    41.04    137.0
a/  Based on the official rate of exchange of US$1 = OH 10.44.
h/ Including taxes and customs duties (about US$10.G million equivalent).
C_ Including project preparation and supervision. studies. training. etc.
&   At July 1. 1985 prices.
W   15% on rehabilitation works and 10l on equipment and technical assistance.
fj 12% annually on local expenditure incurred in 1985. 10% in 1986 and 6% in 1987.
1988 and 1989. and 5% annually on foreign expenditure incurred in 1985. 7.5% in
1986. and 8% in 1987. 1988 and 1989



- 26 -
4.16     Cost estimates for civil works are based on data provided by
DPCM's engineers, confirmed by a port engineering consultant during the
preappraisal mission and revised and updated by the appraisal mission.
Cost estimates for equipment are based on international prices for similar
equipment.  The foreign exchange component estimated at about US$22 million
equivalent represents about 54% of the total cost of the project. The
local cost includes 17% taxes on all contracts (US$7.0 million equivalent)
and 45% customs duties on imported material and equipment (US$3.0 million
equivalent). Bank financing of US$22 million equivalent covers the total
foreign exchange cost of the project. Estimates for technical assistance
include cost of equipment to be purchased, foreign and local travel, and
other items incidental to the services requiring an outlay of funds. The
project provides for some 400 staff-months required for technical assis-
tance, studies and training.
E. Implementation and Procurement
4.17     ODEP and DPCM have signed a Project Implemetation Agreement which
e-plains in detail the responsibilities under Part A and Part B of the
project in each one's change. ODEP will be responsible for the entire
project implementation. It will carry out Part A of the project with its
own engineers and technical assistance help, and will use DPCM engineers,
to carry out Part B of the project. Final engineering for works to be
executed under the project has been prepared by qualified engineers of ODEP
and DPCM helped by engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank under
agreed terms of reference. An advertisement of the works to be undertaken,
and an invitation for prequalification of bidders was placed in the
Development Forum and the Government is preparing a short list of qualified
firms. All rehabilitation works except for replacement and repair works
are expected to be awarded to the same contractor in order to ensure proper
coordination.
4.18     ODEP has agreed that:  (a) contracts under the project will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Guidelines, except for minor ancilliary works and goods for
sewer, electricity, control tower and shed repairs and replacements which
will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. These works and
goods are estimated at under US$3.5 million equivalent. Goods manufactured
in Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with Bank
Guidelines; (b) civil works construction and equipment purchase will be
supervised by ODEP's engineers assisted by DPWM's engineers and a firm of
independent consultants acceptable to the Bank, under agreed terms of
reference. Invitations to bid, proposed awards and final contracts will be
reviewed by the Bank in accordance with Bank Guidelines for procurement.
All consultants and experts have been or will be recruited in accordance
with Bank Guidelines under agreed terms of reference. ODEP will assign,
following the Action Plan agreed during negotiations, qualified engineers
in adequate numbers to work as counterparts to the supervision consultants
and the workshop specialist as well as qualified staff to the other
technical assistance specialists.
4.19     Draft terms of reference for technical assistance experts are
being reviewed by ODEP and the MPW. The terms of reference for the Ports
Tariff Study scheduled for completion by April 1, 1986 and ODEP's Reorgani-
zation Study scheduled for comoletion by July 1, 1987 have been approved by



- 27 -
the Bank. Under the Action Plan, ODEP will employ, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) port operation specialists hy July 1. 1986
for about 24 staff-months; (b) an internal audit specialist by October 1,
1986 for a period of five months; (c) financial management specialists by
January 1, 1987 for a total of 24 staff-months; (d) workshop specialists by
April 1, 1986 for a total of 24 staff-months; (e) a management information
system specialist by April 1, 1986 for a period of 12 months; and (f) con-
tainer terminal specialists by July 1. 1986 for a total of 24 staff-
months. Copies of the draft terms of reference for the above assistance
are available in the Project File.  The procurement method is detailed in
the Table below.
Procurement Method
(US$ millions)
Total
Project Element           ICB          LCB         Other           Cost
Rehabilitation Works      25.2         3.5           -             28.7
(12.9)      (1.7)          _            (14.6)
Equipment                  8.3         -             -              8.3
(4.6)                                    (4.6)
Technical Assistance        -          -             4.0            4.0
(2.8)          (2.8)
TOTAL             33.5         3.5           4.0           41.0
(17.5)      (1.7)         (2.8)         (22.0)
a/  Figures in paranthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank-
4.20     The small size of each replacement and repair job and the scat-
tered nature of this work throughout the project implementation period
would be of no interest to foreign contractors. Local competitive bidding
procedures which apply also to ODEP are generally consistent with the need
for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project. There are,
however, a few procedures which are inconsistent with Bank procurement
guidelines and others that require clarification. These procedures and
proposals to improve them are detailed in Table 12. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that ODEP will make the changes needed to make the
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.21     Rehabilitation works are expected to start in July, 1986 and be
completed in late 1988. Workshop equipment and equipment for Mohammedia
breakwater maintenance are scheduled for delivery in May 1987 and June 1988
respectively. The entire project is scheduled for completion by December
1988, but, to allow for possible slippage in execution and for ODEP's
acceptance of the goods and works, project completion date is estimated as
December 1989. The schedule of implementation has been discussed with ODEP
and was confirmed during negotiations (Annex 5). ODEP will prepare quar-
terly progress reports as well as a completion report, not later than 6
months after the Loan Closing Date.



- 28 -
F. Financing and Disbursement
4.22     The proposed loan of US$22.0 million equivalent will be made to
ODEP with guarantee by the Kingdom of Morocco. ODEP will recuperate about
US$15.0 million equivalent necessary to cover the total cost, including
taxes and customs duties of Part B of the project from the port fee due to
the Government. The respective financial responsibilities and obligations
of ODEP and DPCM related to the execution of Part B of the project are
spelled out in the Project Implementation agreement.
4.23     ODEP will secure all local funds needed for the implementation of
the project from internal cash generation. ODEP's cash generation required
to finance the project is covered by the financial covenants governing its
operations (para 6.17).
4.24     Retroactive financing of US$1,000,000 equivalent is recommended to
cover payments made after January L, 1985 for the tariff and reorganization
studies, engineering consultants' services project preparation, and for
small urgently needed rehabilitation works.
4.25     Disbursement from the loan will be on the following basis:
(a)  49% of local expenditures for rehabilitation works under Part
A of the project (US$7.52 million equivalent), 58% of local
expenditures for rehabilitation works under Part B of the
project (US$3.10 million equivalent) and 100% of foreign
expenditures;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures and 55% of total expenditures
for equipment (US$3.80 million equivalent);
(c)  70% of local expenditures for technical assistance and 100%
of foreign expenditures (US$2.20 million equivalent).
4.26     Considering that the Project Completion Date is December 1989, 18
additional months are allowed for disbursement to be completed, and the
loan closing date is, therefore, June 30, 1991. Estimated schedule of loan
disbursement is given in Annex 6; it differs from the profiles for the
EMENA Region's past port projects mainly because: (a) an advance payment of
20% of the costs of civil works and equipment will be paid to contractors
and equipment manufacturers upon contracts signature; and (b) the project
is limited to rehabilitation works and equipment purchases with no major
construction works. The six-year period for loan disbursement is consi-
dered a realistic estimate for such works, especially since no unusual
problems are expected.
G. Impact on Environment and Employment
4.27     The project "ill have no significant environmental impact on the
cities of Casablanca and Mohammedia, or their ports. All proposed improve-
ments are confined to rehabilitation L. existing facilities that have been
operating and proven safe in the same location for several years.



- 29 -
4.28     The project will generate employment opportunities during the
rehabilitation stage for some 300 skilled and unskilled labor.  Training of
the port labor force, following the implementation of the TRAINMAR program,
will upgrade their skills and gradually lead to higher productivity and
better employment conditions. Some 100 jobs will be upgraded upon comple-
tion of the project.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01     The por.. rehabilitation component in the proposed project will
improve operating conditions in the Port of Casablanca. Di-mage to cargo
and mobile handling equipment caused by uneven rolling surfaces and driving
accidents will be reduced as a result of repair and upgrading of surfaces.
5.02     Workine conditions and traffic safety will be improved as the flow
of cargo will be directed by adequate traffic markings and signalling.
5.03     Loss of cargo and damage to equipment caused by flooding during
the rainy seasons will be avoided with the new drainage system.
5.04     Improvement in the water supply will affect ship service.  With a
new water distribution system, the supply to the port and ships will be
better monitored and controlled to eliminate costly waste and abuses. For
instance, by the end of 1984, the DPCM had an outstanding debt of DR 6.0
million to the water supply company for which it could not account.
5.05     Adequate lighting alongside the berths and repair of the sheds
will improve overall port productivity, goods safety and labor's working
conditions.
5.06     Sedimentation and debris accumulated in the port basin and along-
side the berths have reduced the port's ability to receive ships of the
size calling on the port, and for which the port was originally designed.
For instance, in the last years, the 20,000 dwt grain ships were berthed
fully loaded only at high tide, and the larger container ships had to
top-off before moving to berth. After adequate dredging of the port, these
ships vill be able to dock promptly and the cost of topping-off will be
avoided.
5.07     Breakwater maintenance cannot be deferred.  The breakwaters at
both Casablanca and Mohammedia are exposed to some of the most powerful
wave forces in the Atlantic Ocean. The concrete blocks making up the
breakwaters which are displaced or destroyed have to be regularly replaced
to avoid disastrous collapse of the structure. By deferring their mainte-
nance the probability of collapse increases. The benefit of regularly
replacing the blocks is the savings in the cost of reconstructing the
breakwaters of, between US$50 to 100 million.
5.08     Replacement of workshop equipment will lower cargo handling equip-
ment down-times and technical assistance to improve equipment deployment
and utilization should reduce the costs per ton of cargo passing through
the port.



- 30 -
5.09     Morocco's private ship repair facilities have acquired a good
reputation in the shipping industry around the vorld. The Port of
Casablanca has an important dry dock area, which has deteriorated as a
result of lack of maintenance. ODEP intends to study the potential of this
area, to rehabilitate it, and possibly lease it to the private sector for
operation. The lease would offer an important source of revenue to the
Government, and the area would offer an income generating activity for the
ship repair business.
5.10     Overall, the proposed project through its technical assistance,
would strengthen the port organization, modernize management of the major
public enterprise operating in the sector, and support the Government's
export promotion efforts. The total benefits expected as a result of the
proposed project implementation cannot be quantified, but based only on the
assumptions that: (i) generai cargo waste and pilferage will be reduced by
2%, which will result in a savings of about US$1 million per year against
an average annual cost of about US$600,000 to repair and maintain over
eight years the port structures affecting goods safety; (ii) losses in
equipment, water and electricity evaluated at about US$600 thousand equiv-
alent per year will be avoided; and (iii) the cost of major breakwater
repairs, if not maintained for five years, will be avoided; an economic
rate of return of over 30% was calculated (Table 11), which proves that the
proposed project is urgently needed.
5.11     There are no special technical and environmental risks associated
vith the project.  Project costs are realistic and there is no basis to
assume that they will be significantly higher than estimated at appraisal.
Institutional risks are acceptable given the proposed technical assistance
program.
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
.A.. Past and Current Financial Status
6.01     The summary income statement of ODEP (formerly RAPC) for 1981-84
is given in Table 6.' and in detail in Annex 7.
Table 6.1: RAPC. Income Statement for 1981-84
(in current DH million)
Operating Revenues       283.4     319.7      336.1     412.5
Working Expenses        (195.0)    <213.4)    (231.2J    (268.0)
Depreciation. Provision    (à)i)    (71.7)    (fiL7)    (87_4)
Sub total            27.6       34.6      36.2       57.1
Non Operating Section     (2.3)     (7.7)     (29.3)     <86.2)
Previous Year Ad.istments    19.41             (SII      144
Sub total           <11.7>      <7.7)     <34.4)     71.8
Met revenue               1s.9      26.9        1.8     (14.73
Interest                 (3.61      15.4)     (8.21      !7-.51
Income before Tax         12.3      21.0       (6.41    (22.2)
Tax                                   .1       1.7      __7
Income after Tax          10.5      17.2       (8.1>    <22.2J
Indicatora
Operating Ratio            0.90      o 89       0.89      0.86



- 31 -
6.02      Cargo handling tariffs were raised at Casablanca in 1979, at
Mohammedia and Agadir in 1980, and at Tangiers in 1982. Pilotage and
towage dues were raised in 1982 and services at the Casablanca dry dock in
1981. As a result, in 1984, RAPC earned DH 412 million from its opera-
tions, or 46% more than in 1981 which proves that RAPC was able to weather
the adverse effects of traffic stagnation since 1979. The ad valorem stor-
age charge generated about DH 120 million in 1984 and balanced the RAPC's
finances. Overall, the most recent trend shows a very positive evolution
toward greater flexibility in pricing and growing concern about
prof itability.
6.03      The 1983 deficit was caused by the revaluation of outstanding
long-term debt, creating a non-operating loss of about DH 38 million. The
erosion of the local currency also entailed higher interest payments. The
other expenses were kept under control by RAPC as they grew at an annual
average rate of 8% over the period, compared to the local average annual
inflation rate of about 11%. In 1984, the revenues from operations of
Dh 57 million vere 58% higher than a year before but, after provisions were
made for constitution of a pension fund for staff, this was turned into an
overall deficit of Dh 22 million.
6.04      Table 6.2 gives RAPC operating revenue and the operating income by
port.
Table 6.2: Operatina Revenue and Income Earned by RAPC
1982  84
(in current OH '000 and %>
Y/
Operatina RCvenues             Income Structure
_8      198tJ3 1984       1984    1i                1284
(Dh)    (Dh)     (oh)     (X1     (%)      (X)      CE
Casablanca    207,714  207.924  236.575    57.4    63.9      35.3    65.1
Mlohammedia   -26.676   28.086   31.467     7.6    13.4      26.2    13.9
Agadir         25.233   23.364   26.392     6.4  (-17.4>   (-9.4)  (-5.3)
Safi           24.542   29.947   32.870     8.0    18.1      29.2    10.4
Tangiers       19.772   35.159   33.850     8.2   C 4.4>    45.1    20.4
Dry Dock        1.818    3.266    3.116     0.8      0.4     4.1      2.9
Nador          13.969    6.501   17.379     4.2    26.0       1.2    6.1
Saharian Ports           1.834    2.244     0.5      -     (-31.7) ( 21.9)
Kenitra                           2.962     0.7                    (-17.6)
Jorf Lasfar      2_ 5.0Z9                   6.à      -               26.0
319.724  3.3L081  411.884   100,0   100.0    100.0   100.0
1/ The income used in the estinate of the income structure is the operating
income as shown in ODEP accounts where some non operating items are included.
The above table shows that most cargo handling revenues and income are
earned in Casablanca and Mohammedia, the two project ports. In 1984, they
both account for 65% of total operating revenues and 79% of total income,
which points to the heterogeneity of the financia] structure: i) ODEP runs



- 32 -
a profitable activity in these ports as well as in Tangiers and Safi; ii)
operations at the new ports of Nador and Jorf Lasfar are progressing well
and generate financial surpluses but traffic remains at too small a level
to allow in the near future normal return on major investments carried out
there iii) Agadir was adversely affected by the falling exports of citrus
fruits but is slowly progressing toward profitability; and, iv) the
Saharian ports and Kenitra accomodate very small traffic and are a burden
on ODEP's finance.
6.05     The summary balance sheet in Table 6.3 is detailed in Annex 7.
Table 6.3:  RAPC - Balance Sheet for 1980-84
(in current DH million)
1981       1982        1983       L984
Current Assets               266.6      377.0       463.4       531.4
Less:
Current Liabilities          228.8      289.8       350.8       309.7
Subtotal                 37.8        87.2       112.6       221.7
Net Fixed Assets             244.8      329.5       348.2       444.1
Other Assets                  20.7        18.6        9.2        64.3
Capital Employed             303.3      435.3       470.0       730.1
Represented by
Equity                     246.5      293.2       300.1       476.9
Long-Term Debt              56.8      142.1       169.9       253.2
Total                   303.3       435.3       470.0       730.1
Indicators
Current Ratio                  1.17        1.30       1.32        1.72
Debt/ Equity Ratio             19/81       33/67      36/64       35/65
6.06     The equity rose from DH 247 million in 1981 to DR 477 milliun in
1984.  The outstanding long-term debt in 1984 is shown as DH 253 million,
corresponding entirely to foreign borrowings. The debt had risen sharply
since 1981 as suppliers credits were contracted to renew equipment (40% in
US$, 54% in DM and the balance in FF) and further inflated because of the
devaluation of the national currency. Servicing of the debt has been
affected by balance of payments constraints and some payments, including
interest were rescheduled under Government arrangements.



- 33 -
6.07     Table 6.3 discloses the substantial growth of current assets over
the last 4 years. It corresponds to cash accumulation totalling
DU 185 million in 1984. These liquidities are largely unproductive and
technical assistance will be given under the proposed project to strengthen
financial planning and cash management in order to increase income earned
by these assets. Among other current assets, Government debt to RAPC is
the most important, equivalent to some DH 65 million at the end of 1983, of
which DH 20 million relate to dredging. This issue has been addressed in
1984 and a plan was adopted, scheduling the payments to be made by the
Government. Total debt accwmulated by government and other public enter-
prises is evaluated at about DH 180 million, of which half is to be p;id to
ODEP before 1986 (para. 6.19).
6.08     The short-term liabilities also stand higher than normal, equiva-
lent to DH 310 million in 1984. They include suspense accounts for
DH 45 million and other short-term liabilities corresponding to taxes and
duties owed to Government, to pension rights and other debts, in particu-
lar, debts related to Agadir and the Saharian ports. Overall, the liquid-
ity position is good and the current ratio consistently improved from 1.17
in 1981 to 1.72 in 1984.
B. Financial Projection
ODEP Finances: Adjustments ta the RAPC Accounts
6.09     ODEP has taken over all RAPC assets and liabilities starting
December, 1984. In projecting ODEP's finances, several adjustments had to
be made: on the revenue side to account for the port dues ODEP will be
collecting, and on the expenditure side to take into account the extra cost
of maintenance and the fee to be paid to Government.
6.10     ODEP collects, in addition to cargo handling charges, port dues
formerly accruing to the Port Directorates. For 1985, and before the
introduction of new rates effective as of August 1 the anticipated rev:.iue
from port dues is DH 130 million distributed as follows:
Casablanca    -  DH 50.0 million
Mohammedia    -  DH 30.0 million
Safi           -  DH 20.0 million
Tangiers       -  DH 14.0 million
Other Ports   -  DH 16.0 million
These revenues include indirect taxes (12%).
6.11     In exchange, ODEP bears the maintenance costs of all Government
assets under its responsibility, including the salaries of the 450 mainte-
nance staff transferred from the Port Directorates. The staff assigned to
maintenance will execute only part of the total works needed, the rest
being contracted out. Without the backlog of repairs to be financed under
the proposed project, total maintenance costs for 1985 are estimated at
about DR 33 million, of which about 45% will be contracted out. The above
amount includes:



- 34 -
-  labor costs:         DR 14.5 million
-  cons-nables:         DH 5.0 million
-  external services:  DR 13_5 million
Agreement was reached at negotiations with ODEP and the Governnent that
they vill take all necessary measures to ensure that all port property is
maintained, and necessary repairs and renewals are made in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and commercial practices. Government will
allocate in its Loi de Finances no less than US$2 million equivalent for
the maintenance of those assets which are not transferred to ODEP or other
user, and ODEP will allocate at least US$5.5 million equivalent annually
from revenues generated frenm port dues for the maintenance of public port
assets entrusted te it.
6.12     For 1985, ODEP will pay the Government a fee equivalent to DH 40
million which is based on two components: (i) the total area rented; and
(ii) its gross revenues. This does not constitute a normal cost recovery
by Government and a new system vill be introduced under the project. The
new fee will be based on: (i) ODEP's share of the administrative costs and
of the maintenance costs borne by the Port Directorates and; (ii) the
updated value of government owned assets used by ODEP. The costs under
point (i) above are estimated as some DR 30 million nationwide 20% of which
are apportioned to ODEP as a preliminary estimate. This may be revised
following the Ports Tariff study and the results of the reorganization
study. The remaining 80% is shared by other port users, e.g. OCP, ONICL,
fishermen, the Navy, and others.
6.13     As regard payments to be made in relation to the value of port
assets, the objective will be for Government to earn a 5% return on the net
value of its investments in the ports where ODEP operates. In addition, 1%
of the updated value of Goverament port assets is added to account for
their depreciation. These assets include the breakwaters, all quays and
all dockside areas except those occupied by specialized users such as the
phosphate terminal or the grain terminal and silo in Casablanca. The value
of the government-owned assets vas derived as explained below and detailed
in Annex 8, para 8:
(i)    Total of those created before 1980, which had been valued by
the planning units of the Ministry of Transport in 1978 and
further updated to their 1985 replacement value: their gross
value is DR 6.0 billion which needs to be reduced by DR 0.7
billion corresponding to the gross value of transit sheds
and oiL jetties now transferred to ODEP. About 70% of the
gross value is considered depreciated. Furthermore ODEP is
assumed to operate 36% of the total Government assets.
Therefore, in order to assure a 5.0% return on the value of
net fixed assets created before 1980, the fee payable to the
Government should be no less than DH l8 million, including
DH 19 million to cover depreciation.



- 35 -
(Hi)    Total of those created between 1980-84, which correspond to
the port investments in the same period, equivalent to some
DR 3.1 billion, in current value.  Assuming that the accumu-
lated depreciation on these assets is about 2.5% of their
current value, that 7% relates to assets used by ODEP and a
5% return on the net fixed assets, an additional fee of DU 13
million is required, including DH 2 million to cover depre-
ciacion.
The total nor-mal fee is then about DR 67 million, after addition of the
costs of the services rendered by the Port Directorate apportioned to
ODEP. The total normal fee is roughly 50% of the planned average yearly
Government investments in the port subsector over the next 5 years exclud-
ing Agadir and the Saharian ports and would make an adequate contribution
to the Government financing plan.
6.14     The introduction of the above fee would require to increase by
about 15% the current port dues. The strategy proposed is to move gradu-
ally over a 5-year period toward a normal contribution by ODEP to the
Goverrment budget (para. 6.17).
(a) Results of the Financial Projection: ODEP
6.15     ODEP accounts will be kept separately for the functions trans-
ferred from the Port Directorates and pro-forma statements will be main-
tained showing the assets financed by Government and made available for use
to ODEP, including depreciation and additions and their yearly revaluation
in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank.  Revenues earned from
port dues will be utilized to cover maintenance costs of Government owned
assets, and the Government fee.  This fee will be progressively increased
up to a satisfactory level and by 1990, will be equivalent to at least 5%
of the revalued net fixed assets in operation transferred to ODEP plus
their depreciation and at least 5% and the depreciation of a fair share of
the revalued net fixed assets in operation such as breakwaters and other
infrastructure which benefits all users, plus a fair share of the adminis-
trative and maintenance costs borne by the Port Directorates.
6.16     Assumptions used in the financial projection and the full state-
ments are detailed in Annex 8. Table 6.4 gives a summary income statement
over 1985-91.



- 36 -
Table 6.4: ODEP - Sumnary Income Stateuent
Prolection for 1985-91
(in current OH million)
198      1986   12IL7    19S       im8      199      l9Sl
Operating RevenueS
Public port                 143.S   182.2    197.1   211.6   228.8   253.8    279.S
Commercial activities      412.5   S28.3   602.5S  676.9   762.9   8Z4,1   92190
Sub-total               556.0    710.5    799.6  888.5   991.7   1077.9   1189.5
ODeratinQ Exoenses
a. Public Port
Working expenses          48.4    75.0     81.2   87.8    95.0   103.7    112.9
Government fee           40.0    40.0      50.0   60.0    75.0    90.0    102.0
b. Commercial Activities
Working expenses         285.0   322.8    352.7  385.8   422.0   461.9    505.7
Depret'ation             8a50    107.0    129,3  144.5   15J6.4   168.       181.3
Sub-total             458.4    544.8    613.2  678.1   748.4   824.1    901.9
Appropriation fur public port  54.1    4S-0    27.0      2.2      4.5      9.0      9.0
Interest                      27.6    43.4    55.2   61.2    60.9    50.8          39.9
Income tax                     7.0    3L 0    45.    64.7    78_.3        L- !_   105.1
Net incone                     8.9    43.3    58.4   82.3    99.6   108.6    133.6
Indicator
Operating ratio              0.32    0.77      0.77   0.76    0.75       2-76    0.76
Return on average
net fixed assets in use      4-S5    7.8S    7.8S    8.2%    8.4:    7.8-         8.0-
6.17       In order to meet the above targets, the following tariff increases
are required: (i) port dues for public port activities which were increased
by 30% on August 1, 1985 must be raised by 5% each year until 1990 so that
the Government fee may grow from DH 40 million in 1985 to about
DH 102 million in 1991; (ii) the other cargo handling charges levied by
ODEP which were increased by 20% on August 1, 1985, must be raised by 12.5%
in 1986, 10% in 1987 through 1989 and 5% thereafter. This will maintain
profitability of ODEP's operations with a return of no less than 7.5% on
the average current net value of fixed assets in operation. Tariff
increases could be less if productivity increases more than anticipated.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that: ODEP's revenues from port dues
will be adequate to meet the increasing fee payments to the Government and
maintenance costs and, that: (i) all port assets transferred to ODEP are to
be revalued not later than June 30, 1986; (ii) Governnent financed assets
will be revalued similarly by June 1986; (iii) the fee paid by ODEP to
Government f rom 1986 onward is to be related to Governunent financed assets
revalued on a yearly basis so that: it will cover the depreciation of the
Government's fixed assets in operation entrusted to ODEP, plus 5% of the
average current net value of these assets, plus ODEP-s apportioned share of
the average current net value of Government financed fixed assets in



- 37 -
operation not transferred to ODEP or other users and the administrative and
maintenance costs of such assets borne by Government through its port
directorates. The fee will be adjusted to earn a return on the average net
value of Government fixed assets in operation entrusted to ODEP of no less
than 1%, 2%. 3%, and 4% respectrively during calendar years 1986, 1987,
1988, and 1989. Agreement was reached with ODEP at negotiatioi.z that it
would take all necessary measures to maintain its profitability and earn an
annual rate of return of not less tan 7.5% on the average current net value
of its assets, starting 1987.
6.18      Table 6.5 gives a suunary balance sheet over 1985-91.  The full
balance sheet is shown in Annex 8.
Table 6.5:  OpEP - Sunwnarv Balance Sheet
Proiection for 1985 91
(in current OH million)
19q      1986   12987    148A    1989    199Q    '991
Current assets            426.4   447.8   319.6   293.2   285.6   297.6   343.1
Less Current ltabilities   254-J   242.7   2ZO.1   185.0   190.3   201.1   217.3
Subtotal          172.1   205.1    99.5   108.2    95.3    96.5   12S.8
Net fixed assets           9S7.1   1261.2  1644.3  1854.2  1982.9  2103.4  2228.3
Other assets               94.-    119 -3    19.3    1.,    19.3    19.3    19 3
Total capital employed    IZ23.5  1585.6  1763.1  1981.7  2097.5  2219.2  2373.4
Represented by
Long-tenm debt             373.1   571.1   612.6   698.5   605.7   490.7   376.0
Equity and reserves       850.4  1014.5  1150.5  1283.2  1491.8  1728.5  1997.4
Indicators
Current Ratio                1.7     1.8      1.4      1.6     1.4      1.5     1.6
Debt Equity Patio          30/70   36/64   35/65   35/65   29i71   22/78   16/84
6.19      The value of assets incorporates the construction of sheds and
buildings owned by ODEP. Net fixed assets more than double their value
over the period to reach DH 2.0 billion in 1991. The investments remain
high until 1988 because of the equipment of the new ports of Jorf Lasfar,
Nador and of the oil port at Mohammedia.  After 1988, they fall back to the
level required by the normal traffic growth and the needs for replacement
and renewal. Expenses under the Bank-financed project are amortized over
25 years. which corresponds to the average life of assets to which they
relate. The projection also assumes that arrears will be progressively
settled and that from 1988 onward, commercial receivables and commercial
payables will represent 20% of revenues and 20% of cash expenses respec-
tively, down from 35% in 1985. The projection assumes that all expenses
incurred by ODEP and related to execution of Part B of the Project will be
deducted from the fee paid by ODEP to Government.



- 38 -
6.20      To maintain indebtedness within appropriate limits, ODEP agreed
during negotiations, to keep net revenues after payment of all expenses
related to operation, maintenance, Government fee. administration, and
taxes at such a level as needed to be at least 1.4 times the estimated debt
service requirement. This is as shown in Table 6.6.
Table 6.6:  OOEP - Summary Sources and Anolications of Funds
Statements Proiection for 1985-91
(in current OH Million)
l9B 1 98IM7              M      lm989          lmg 14
Sources
Internal sources      94.8   159.9   216.5  262.5   268.6   290.4  327.8
Covernment arrears    60.0    30.0    30.0    -        -       -       -
Appropriation         54.1    45.0    27.0    2.2       4-S     9.0    9.0
Borrowings           146.3   256.7   156.9  224       Z.L.7    -.0    _.aL
Total             355.2   491.6   430.4  489.5   302.8   299.4  336.8
Aoolications
IBRD Part B            0.3    19.6    60.5   70.3       4.5    -       -
Capital expenses     317.1   340.5   311.5  255.7   173.8   170.0  180.0
Payment of loans      26.1    47.5    80.8   98.3   120.0   114.9  114.7
ODEP arrears          60.0    30.0    30.0    -        -       -       -
Appropriation used     0.9    19.9    50.2   50.5       6.7
Working capital        1.7   -20.6   -19.2   13.8    16.4       7.5    7.2
DPCM loan repaid       Q        1.1    l3      6.0t   i0.6    13.3   1Z.8
Total             403.4   438.0   516.8  494.6   332.0   305.7  314.7
Cash end of year
of vear            136.8   190.4   104.0   98.8    69.6    63.3   85.4
Indicator
Debt service
coverage            2.3      2.1     1.8    1.8      1.8     2.0    2.3
Results of the Financial Projection: DPCM
6.21      The Bank loan will benefit also the Port Directorate of Casablanca
and Mohammedia (DPCM). The following financial projection shows how the
revenue generated in Casablanca and Mohammedia compares with the costs of
their operations and the impact of the Bank loan on their financial flows.
6.22      Under the new organization, DPCM loses most of its traffic based
revenues: instead it will charge ODEP a fee based on the vaLue of the local
port assets that ODEP operates. Rentals Erom other port users complete the
DPCM's revenue base. On the cost side, only ca h expenses are to be
accounted for and the financial cost which until 1984 was charged to the
DPCM's budget is eliminated.



- 39 -
6.23     In 1985, roughly 50% of the total fee paid by ODEP may be appor-
tioned to DPCM. The other revenues including rentals are calculated to
grow from DH 2.0 million in 1985 to DH 5.0 million in 1990. This rela-
tively modest increase conservatively assumes that DPCM will find it
difficult to drastically modify the financial terms of its long term
leases. Still, this is a long-term objective to be gradually reachted in
order to assure Government's recovery of the costs of investment in port
infrastructure as well as better allocation of resources in the sector.
Expenses are expected to grow at 2% above the local inflation rates.
Table 6.7 summarizes DPCM's income statement over 1985-90, and shows that
net revenue will increase from DU 10 million in 1985 to about DH 30 million
in 1990.
Table 6.7:  DPCM - Summary Income Statement Projection over
1985-90 (in current DR million)
1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
1. Revenues
ODEP fee               20.0       20.0     28.0      30.0     37.5      45.0
Others                  2_0        2.4      2.9       3.5      4.2       5.0
Subtotal            22.0      22.4      27.9      33.5     41.7      50.0
2. Operating expenses
Labor costs             7.0        7.8      8.5       9.1      9.9      10.7
Other expenses          4.0        4.5      4.8       5.2      5.6       6.1
Subtotal            11.0       12.3     13.3      14.3     15.5      16.8
3.  Fee retained by ODEP       0.7        1.1       3.0      6.0       7.6       7.3
4.  Net revenue                10.3       9.0      11.6     13.2      18.6      25.9
6.24     The investments under Part B of the Project amount to DH 155
million or some US$15 million equivalent.  The other investments correspond
to the expenses for renewal of existing equipment and major repairs; in
1985, they are limited to DH 5.0 million; from 1986 onward they will be
maintained at the required level. Table 6.8 summarizes the Sources and
Applications o' Fund Statement over 1985-90.



- 40 -
Table 6.8: OPCH - Sources and Apnlications of Fund Statement
Proiection over 1985-90 fin current OH million)
1985    12i1    1987   l98    18m    lm!
Sources
Net revenue            10.3     9.0    11.6    13.2    18.6    25.9
ODEP credtt             0.3    19.6    60.5    70.3     4.5      -
Fee retained by ODEP   -Li      1.1     3.0   -6.0      7.6      7J3
Subtotal          11.3    29.7    75.1    89.5    30.7    33.2
Applicati ons
Project lnvestments     0.3    19.6    60.5    70.3     4.5      -
Other investnents       LiR    10.O    11.O    IL.    M12.I    1z.5
Subtotal           5.3    29.6    71.5    81.8    16.5    12.5
Fee retained by ODEP             . 2_5    ZL.2    37.5    12.1    LUI
Subtotal           6.1    39.1   100.4   117.5    29.0    25.8
Total               5.2    -9.4   -25.3   -29.8     1.7    7.4
Cash to Gavernment
Debt coverage ratio    15.7     9.2     4.9     3.2      2.5     2.5
The above statements show a need for cash contribution from Government to
DPCM in 1986 through 1988, related to spending under Part B of the Bank
project, and represented by the fee retained by ODEP. From 1989 onward,,
DPCM is again a net contributor to the Government general budget. Overall,
the situation is satisfactory because: i) DPCM may resort to other borrow-
ings, as evidenced by the high debt coverage ratio; ii) direct and indirect
taxes are earned by Government on port activities there and do not appear
in the above table, thus underestimating the real revenues earned by
Government through DPCM. The impact of taxes on the Government budget is
measured in the next paragraph for all ports operated by ODEP.
The Overall Impact of the New Financial Organization
on the Government Budget
6.25      Table 6.9 below summarize the expected evolution of net income in
the port sector from 1984 to 1990, and it is shown in more detail in
Annex 8, Table 4.  Since the total Government debt servicing is not
included in this table, its results should be compared only with investment
projections for 1985-90.



- 41 -
Table 6.9:  Incame in the Port Sector, 1984-90
(in curreait million DH)
1984      1985      1986      1990
Government
(including taxes paid by ODEP)            20         22       45        141
Port Directorates                         20         15       il         56
RAPC/ODEP
Before tax                           -22         16       77        194
After tax                            -22          9       43        109
Total Income in Port Sector
Before tax                            -2         31       88        250
After tax                             -2         24       54        165
6.26     In 1984, total net deficit in the port sector amounted ta DH 2
million.  The income would become positive in 1985 and is projected to
increase by 1990 to DH 168 million, or DR 250 million including taxes.  The
principal beneficiaries would be the Port Directorates, whose net revenues
would increase from DR 20 million in 1984 to DU 56 million by 1990, and the
Government which would receive the taxes paid by RAPC/ODEP, projected to
increase over 1985-1990, from DN 7 million to about DH 85 million. As to
ODEP, its net income, after taxes, would increase from DH 9 to DH 109
million.  Compared to investments, total net income to Government from the
port sector as a whole would represent less than 10Z of the total value of
its port investments in 1984 and this percentage is projected to increase
to more than 100% in 1990.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     During negotiations the Government agreed that:
(a)  it will exchange views with the Bank regarding policies on
port tariffs and its port development plans (para. 3.17)
(b) it will develop improved procedures involved in the import
and export of goods through the port of Casablanca by end of
1986 and ensure that they are published, available to the
public and applied no later than June 30, 1987 (para. 3.24);
(c) it will take all measures necessary to ensure that port
infrastructure which continues to be under its responsibility
is adequately maintained in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and commercial practices (para. 6.11).



- 42 -
(d) the fee payable by ODEP to Government will be progressively
increased so that by 1990, it is equivalent to at least 5% of
the average current net value of Government financed fixed
assets in operation entrusted or otherwise apportioned to
ODEP by Government, revalued in accordance with methods
satisfactory to the Bank plus depreciation and ODEP's appor-
tioned share of the administrative and maintenance costs of
Government financed assets in operation not entrusted or
transferred to any port user (para. 6.17);
(e) it will establish tariffs so as to enable ODEP to meet its
obligations in respect of revenues from port dues and rate of
return covenant (para. 6.17).
7.02     ODEP agreed during negotiations that:
(a)  it will implement the Action Plan (Annex 3) (para. 3.20);
(b)  it will have its accounts audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, and submit to the Bank the audit
reports not later than six months following the end of each
fiscal year except for 1985, 1986 and 1987 for which nine
months wilL apply (para. 3.39);
(c) all contracts under the project will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement except for minor rehabilitation
works for the repair and replacement of existing structures,
related to the water system, transit sheds and contral tower
which will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertized locally in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.18);
(d) all consultants and experts for technical assistance and
studies will be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for Employment of Consultants under terms of reference agreed
with the Bank (para. 4.18);
(e) it will adequately maintain the port infrastructure under its
responsibility in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and commercial practices (para. 6.11);
(f) revenues earned from port dues will be sufficient to cover
ODEP's maintenance costs of Government financed fixed assets
entrusted to it, and the Government fee (para. 6.17);
(g) it will earn an annual return of no less than 7.5% on the
average current net value of ODEP's net fixed assets in
operation (para. 6.17); and



- 43 -
(h)  it vill maintain indebtedness within appropriate limits such
that net revenues after payment of all expenses related to
operation, maintenance, Government fee, administration and
taxes will be kept at such a level as needed to be at least
1.4 times the estimated debt service requirement (para. 6..20).
7.03     With the understandings indicated above, the proposed project
provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan to ODEP of US$22 million equiva-
lent, with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco, payable in 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



W)R(cCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT nF
A PORT PROJECT
tHt PoRtS nF CASARLAJICA Aii IRHAMEOIA
Repartltion of Traffic conqst Moroccan Parti
(Thouuand tonsl
Type af Sc;ps:          S               S            S          S               S              lOH           OC/CH          OCIS          DC           1H       r1h        OH
Genaralt Cargo
Petroleun                                 Other                        Frults &          Steel        Chemical                  Cemient 11             Ferti.                   tontaierlired           s Total                  t of
Port            ProductS       Phosphates    Codi         Minerais       Cereisi      Vegetdales        ProductS       ProductS       Mod       Clicher    Sugar       hier        amoai      Tota?          S No          It         total      Total
Internatlonal
Iladar                 -              -          -                                        $7 -                                          1>           ? 3                              3          --IJ                                   166        O,S
langiers             98               -          -            .li                         6?               iZ              6           74                       i i0     In         l'? 21515                               12          537         1,6
Lenitrd               7I                        32          l01                                     -                      17           -                               Il?         Ip                          -           32          491         1.5
Maharuidîa        4,104               .                               .,                                    14             ,           2R            -                              106                         *        2?721        4.854        14.3
Lasablamca          841         14,10?          84          215         1230            579              600            713          T83         z72          '?6      17h       1,5 O        7h0             Sl            7       21,056       62,2
Safi                   1         3.255           -          465            21                                          1,J41                                              2         125          -              *            ?        5,520        16.3
Agailr               ?64              -                      1              Qn           'I                Z5               1          29          Ion                   19          79                          3           S          960         2,8
Jorf-Lasfdr                                                                                                                                                                                                     -            -
I Sua-total       S,991         17,45>         116          134          1.672         '.059              6P?          1.89          367         JAI          236      339      ?,163         787             36           6        33.586       99,2
Flshing 
Sen  eaina             -                    -                                              .                 .             .            .            .           .                                                                                    . -
Al lioceila            6                                                                                    2                           -           3P           -        -           -          -              -            -           46         0,1
HiDIq                  '              '           '           '              '             '                '              '                                                          I                                    100             1     0°004
Lardche                *                                                                                                   *          8.4            *                     *       0,S           -              -            6             9      0,03
r I Jadlda             -              .           .           . 
Esaouira               -              -           -           -              -             .                .              .            .            .           .                 0,3           .              .          100          0.3      0.001
Tan-Ta d                                  -                                  -             -                -              .            -           -            -                  1.5          -              -          100          1.5      O.OS
fariaya                               -          .            --                                                                        -                                             -                         ----
Lauyoune              35            118           -           *                                             *              -            -            -           .                   ?1          .              -            -          194         0,6
Dahkla                                                                                     -1                                                                                                                            -  100          19       0.06
? Sub-total           41            138           -                          *             *.4                                                     la *  S                           43                                     t6          ?10         0,8
Grand total       6.03?         18,095         116          934          1,672         1,059              68.          1,6R9          375         419          236      139      2,206         7P7             36            y       33,856         100
In s                                 18         53         0,3               3             S                3              2            S           I            1      0,7          7         n,?                          -           100         100
S *  Spaclalared
OH * Horogeneous cargo
OC * Conventtonal cargo
MG * Gneeral cargo
Source& National Port Development Plan, SOCREAH, Februîry 1983
49220



- 45 -
ANEX 1
Table 2
MOROCCn
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT
HE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND nOHAIMEDCA
Investments in Port Infrastructure 1973 85
(OH million)
1973 1977                              1 978  980     _           _        1981 1985
Actual t as                           Actual as t
eau                Planne    Actual   or Planned          lanncd   Actual   oLPlanned           Planneg       Actual t1
(1>       (2>        (2>1(1)          (3)       <4>        <4)/(3)            (S>          <6>
A. INTERNATUI1AL
Existina Facîlities
Casablanca                82        75          92              152       136         89               319            136
Moha_media                                                      139        99         71
Tanglers                  15        12          80               23        22         96                27             30
Safi                      24        19          80               65 bi    64          98               lis             88
Agadir                    39        34          88               28        27         96               102            104
Kenltra                    0        iL          80               13        il         _5                16             iD
Sub total                180       157          87              440       379         86               630            404
New Facilîttes
Nador                    110 C/    59           54              201       190         9S                69            112
Jorf Lasfar              136       125          92              424       424        100               600            690
Mohamnedia                                                                                             400            800
Agadtr                 -          -                                                                       -           21
Sub total               246        184          75              624       614         98             1.069          1.903
Total A                  tu        141                        1           223        922             1.89            _2117
B.  FISHING ANO COASTAL
Existino Facilities          9         9         100               75        75 d1                        41            154
New Facilities
Tan Tan                   39 gi    23           60              223 QI   199          90                35             41
Tarfaya                   30 ai    18           60              112 g.   100          90                S0             54
Laayoune                                                                                               180            363
Kebha                                                             6         6        100                 19
Ras Kebdana               ___                                                     -            - _                     3_
Sub total                 69        41          60              340       30S         90               318            485
Total B                   78        5f          tL494152in
C.  OTHER MAINTENANCE           NA         NA                           NA        NA                           NA            131.0
Grand Total              518       392           R            L.4.ZS    LJ2            92            z              Lazz
j/ 1981 prices. Excludes thte supplementary cost of invectment for a coal lmporting port facil'ty on the Atlantic Coast
b./ Phosphate port facilities tncluded.
c/  The cost estimate of the first stage of construction t5 not avallable in the Plan documents
and the amount indicated is a mission estimate.
4/  Actual not avallable.
ei/ Bank staff estimates.
fi  As of December 1984
Source: Plan documents. Bank Staff estimates-



- 46 -                                                            APIEX 1
Table 3
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
111E PORTS OF CASA8LAhCA AHO MOHAISEOIA
Investmmnts la tbh  Transoortatlon Sector, 1973_85
(DH Billion)
1S73-1977 Plan                                  1978-80 Plan                           1981-85 Plan et
plannea                       Actual
(Revise"             1 of    as S 0l S of                               S of    Actuel as S                  S of
in 1975)   Actual    Total   Plannea    Planned!f   Total   Actual    TotUl   of Planned          Vlanned    Total
Roads
Roaws                     1.339      1,243      13       86            849        10      S38       7           63          3,537        13
Terminais. etc.             -         -          -       -              27        0        15       0           56             81        o
Vehlcles: PublIc            -       42004/   45          -             384        5      316        4          82              98         0
PrîvateY/         -         -         -        -               -   -    - 3 604         48           -            70DO_/      25
Sub-total                        S 443      58        -          4,860        58    4,469       59          -           10,716       39
Infrastructure            1.267       693        7       55            958       il      651        9          68           8,898       32
Roll1ng stock (public)      bl4       445        5       72            140        2       175       2          125            598        2
E,aab-total           l,18        1 1138     l2                   1.098       13      8Z6       il          75           9.496       34
Air
Infrastructure              36b       257        3       ai            229        3      219        3          96             584        2
Alrcraft (public)            -        466        5       -             200        2       200 '     3           -             484         2
'ub-tOtUl                 -        723       8                      429        S      419        6          -            1.068        4
Ports à Snlpp1ng
Infrastructure (lEPNJ )                                       )      1.495       18    1,381       18          92           2.104        8
Cargo handllng. etc.        l 75      688        7       89   )
(WAPC)                )                                     )       223         3      169        2          76             699        2
-h1ps. publlc secter         -      1.045       il       -             166        2       166 i     2          -              574         2
-hips. pr1vate sector                 271        3                      70        1        70f      I          -            2.837        10
buD-total                         .004      21        -           1,954       Z3   1i786        24          -            6,214        2
Rlscellaneous
(stuales. traln1ng.
bulîoings)                    -         13H       1       -              43        1        36       0          84             166          1
TUTAL                     -      9   U6   IUO            8          M'4'i   100    7 536!'   100           9,a/         21 660/       100
- No Information avallable.
ai  191u prices.
Dj  incluaes carr,-over from previous Plan per1od.
ci  incluaes passenger cars for comparab1llty wlth ratlway passenger car expendltures.
aj  Approximation estimatea by Bank staff.
et  no Information imailable by which to alfferentiate between plannea and actuel.
5ource;  Plan aoo=ents.



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Table 4
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Distribution of Public Investment Funds in the Transport Sector
(million DH)
Budget           Proposed
Planned        aubmitted        expenditures
1981-85          1983              in 1984
A.     Roads               4,320.00           630.50            485.00
B.     Rails               2,869.60           793.70            750.00
C.     Ports               2,661.00           527.00            411.00
D      Airports                 - _ _90.00                       24.00
Total               9,850.60        2,041.20           1,670.00
% of the Total
A.     Roads                  44               31                29
B.     Rails                  29               39                45
C.     Ports                  27               26                25
D.     Airports               -                 4                 1
Total                 100             100                100
Source: Priorities for Public Investment (1981-85), June 1983.
Ministry of Finance, February 1984.
CIR missions, November 1983 and May 1984.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOANEOIA
Prevtous Bank Lending for Transport Sector
A. Hiqhway Proiects
Proiect Name                   Date Sianed     Loan Amount lUSS million)
First Highway (Loan 642- rw                11/69
Roads  (Credit 167-NR)                                     14.3
Transport Planning                                          0.3
Second Highway <Loan 955-0R)               1/74                  ZI.&
Roads                                                      27.0
Transport Planntng                                          0.7
Urban Traffic                                               1.3
Third Highway (Loan 1830-4fR>              5/80                  f2 ]
Road Infrastructure                                       60.9
Transport Planntng                                          1.1
Fourth Highway (Loan 2254-HOR)             10/83                 85 0
Roads                                                      81.3
Transport Planning                                          3.7
B. Rural Roads Constructed or iuroved under Agrlculture Sector Proleçts
Loan        Total
Date           Road         Amount       Loan
Proiert Rame            S70ned       Lenoth (km)    Roads        bZunt
(US$ mililon) (USS million)
Sebou Il Gevelop ent         6n74           420            6.9          32.0
Meknes Agrtcultural Oget.    6/75           485             2.5         14.0
Souss Groundwater            6/75            150            1.1         18.5
Doukkala irrigation          2/76            193            5.4         42.0
Doukkala Il Irrigatlon       6/77           222             5.0         46.5
Fes-Carla-Tissa
Agriculture                9/78           414            24.5         65.0
Vegetable Production
and Marketing             11/79           250             2.0         67.4
Loukkos Rural Devt.         12/80           122            7.5          34.0
mlddle Atlas Agricultural
Devt-                     03/82           331            6.0          29.0
Forestry                    04/82           180             2.7         27.5
Oulmes-Ronuuani Agrt
Devt.                      r8             22 1
Total erounded)                           3.058            67.0        406.0
Source: IBRD Appraisal Reports
January 1985



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MDH M EDIA
Distributlon of Port Functions between
OOEP and the Port Dtrectorates
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10
PORT FACILITIES
Infrastructure
Construction               0    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O
Major Repairs              x    x    x    x    x    x    x    x   x    x
Maintenance                X    X    X    X    x    x    x    x   x    x
Dredgtng                   O    °    0    O    O    0    0 °        O °
Transit Sheds
Construction               X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
NaJor Repairs              X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Maintenance                X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Handlina EutIoment
Ifvestment                 X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Major Repairs              X    %    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Maintenance                X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
SERVICES TO SHIP
Signalling                 O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O
Harbour-master             O    O    O    O    O    O    O    o    O    0
Pilotage                   P    X    x    X    X    X    x    x    P    X
Towage                     P    X    X    P    X    X    X    X    P    X
later Supply               X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Dock Yards                 X
Slipways                   X    X    X    x    X    X    X    X    X    X
Line Handling              X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
SERVICES TU CARGO
Stevedoring                P    P    P    X    P    P    P    X    X    X
Cargo Handling Ashore      X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Storage                    X    X    X    X    P    X    X    X    X    X
ORfY DOCKS                    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
1.  The numbering of colmuns refers to:
1 - Casablanca        2 - Agadir        3 - Safi      4 - Mohammedia
5 - Kenitra-Mehdia    6 - Tangiers      7 - Nador
8 - Saharian Ports (Dakhla. Tarfaya and Laayoune)
9 - Jorf Lasfar       10 - Tan-Tan
2.  X - ODEP;      P - Private
O - Directorate of the Port of Casablanca-Noharmedia and other
Port Directorates
Source: Ministry of Equipment. December 1984



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PRJWECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA ANO MOHAMMEDIA
Productivitv Indicators
1.       ProducttvitX Der gana and selected items:  Metric tons Der shift of 8 hours (net>
Caroo   tte                 J12EZ                       Variation (in S)
Citrus fruits (boxes)              96.1         97.2                1.01
8agged sugar                       80.0        101.0               26.2n
8agged chemicals                   49.0       59/S                 21.4X
Bales                              30.0         43.3               44.31
Grain in bulk                     253.7        312.0               20-6S
Steel products                    176.5        206.7               17.1X
Timber                             89.0        117.0               31.5S
Packaged wood                     106.0        115.0                8.5S
2.       Average oroductivity
Cargo      Gross produc-
Total of     hauled      tivtty                           S of
gangs       tons        per gang         Net produc-    idie
Y£Mr      employed      l@OOù}     and shift        ,ttvitv         ttLe
1982       32.430        3638        112.2             142.4         21.2%1
1983       24.988        3107        124.3             156.1         20.4X
3.       Port nerfornance uttilzation of berths Rer cateoory of shin and carco (1983)
Average       Average    Average                      Tons
load          waiting    service    Average no.        per day
Cargo/                  per ship       time       time        of gang per      of servtce
Ship                    (ton Oo0l9   (hours)      (hoursl    shtni/shft        ttme
Citrus fruits            1883          26.4        77.6            3.8          582
Timber                   1059          10.1        73.5            2.9          346
Steel products           1437           6.0        77.8            2.7          443
Fertilizers              1948          12.4       120.4            2.7          388
Bagged cement            1422          10.9        71.5            2.4          477
General                   785           9.7        65.8            2.7          286
Containers               1518           6.2        31.8            1.4         1146
Composite index: non containerized general cargo: 385 tons per day of service time.
Source: ODEP. Port of Casablanca. December 1984



TraffIc othar than ehomohatàs bg Tvaa of Shius anld-Ivnp of Caron at tha Part of Camablanea
(tons)
L Lf Shiacs                          l2m                                               12 Jlm  lm nu
Conventional                     2,S4",388       2,610,894    2,364,583         2,12S,817       1,755,925         1,630,494
Féoder                               9,399           2,518         6,944               71              11M              410
Ro-Ro                              176,882         248,017       267,3S2          279,212         219,938           206,6ff
Container                          161,218         445,868       450,647          454,181         508,231           S3,655
Reefer                             382,541         438,091       361,479          320,630         u61,086           464,026
Barge carrying                       LIU             Liu           là-                  - a                            -
Total carlo conventionul
and unitiaed                   3,479,241      3,818,548    3,452,2S2         3,179,911        3,045,298        2,835,281
Cersals on quay                    129,000         273,000       311,000          293,000         382,000           863,000
Sugar raw                          272,000         221,000       204,000          195,000         280,000           272,000
Minerals and coual                 14.000          2S4.000       z.2100           296400.Q        275.00            2SL ooo                            -
Total dry bulk carriers            555,000         748,000       746,000          784,000         937,000         1,391,000
011 tanker                         789,237         765,668    1,090,952           >85,895         927,239         1,073,127
Other tankers                      120.244         124.0Rt       117Lk6a         J22A161           159,806         17.321
Total liquid tankers               909,481         899,751    1,208,820           982,056       1,087,04S         1,230,448
Total general                   4L943.722       Li4lijOl       L.47.U072       4.9L45.967       s.o69-3Sl       s.I5i29
£nj,iru:  Feasibility study for the construction of a container terminal, SOGREAN, Frbruary 1983



- 52 -
AEX 1
Table 9
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Traffic Forecast at the Port of
Casablanca and Mohammedia (1985-2000) -'
(Million tons)
Traffic TIe                           1985          1990           2000
Cement, sugar and oils                 0.4           0.3          0.3
Vegetables and fruits                  0.5           0.5          0.5
Sub-Total specialized cargo        0.9           0.8          0.8
Steel products                         0.6           0.2          0.4
Wood                                   0.5           0.7           0.7
Fertilizer                             0.3           -            -
Sub-Total homogeneous cargo        1.4           0.9          1.1
Sub-Total various
conventional cargo               0.9           1.0          1.0
Containerized                 1.0           1.45         1.77
(number of boxes)          (90,000)     (132,000)    (161,000)
*   Ro-Ro                          0.1          0.15          0.2
Sub-Total general unitized         1.1           1.6          2.0
Grand Total                  (4.3)         (4.3)        (4.9)
I/ Excludes phosphates.
Source: Feasibility study for the construction of a container terminal,
SOGREAH, February 1983.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10 (A)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Detailed Cost Estimate
(Part A. ODEP>
DH Million                   USS Million  1/          Percentage of
Locasl 2    Forelan   [otal   Local 2/  Foreian   Total          Base Cost
A. Rehabilitation
1.  Paving and drainage        25.71       24.71      50.42      2.52      2.42      4.94          26
2.  Mater supply system        10.06        9.67      19.73      0.98       0.95     1.93          10
3.  Transit sheds               7.99        7.67      15.66      0.78       0.75     1.53           8
4.  Electrical system           6.98        6.70      13.68      0.68       0.66     1.34           7
S.  Ship repair facilities   12.46         11.97      24.43      1.23       1.17     2.40           13
6.  Ro-Ro ramps                11.61       11.15      22.76      1.14       1.00     2.24          12
7.  ODEP workshops              S.O9        4.81      9.81      0.49       0.47     0.96           5
Sub total A           79.81       76.8    156.49        782       Z7.S     15.34          ai
B. Eau.oment
8.  ODEP workshops              4.08        5.63       9.71      0.40       0.35     0.95           S
C. Technical Assistance
9. Project preparation
and supervision          1.38        3.22      4.60      0.13       0.32      0.45           2
10.  Studies y/                  2.60        6.06       8.66      0.25       0.60     0.85           4
11.  Training 5/                 1.22        2.85       4.07      0.12       0.38     0.40           2
12.  Experts 5/                  2.94        6.87       9.81 01 29          0.6L7     0.96          -à
Sub total B            8.14       1T.O0      27.14      0-79       !.87     2.66           14
Total base cost f/   92.o3         101.31    193I 34    2J.QI      9.q4    18.95         lu
13.  Physical contingency Z/  13.19         13.96      27.15      1.29       1.36     2.66          14
14.  Price contingency  /       23.07       20.07      43.14      2.         1.97     4.23          ZZ
Total contingencies  36.26        34.03      70.29      L53.34 L.I2                       2
Total cost           128.29      135.34    263.63    12.36        13.28    25.84          136
1/ USS 1 = ON 10.440
Z/ Inclading taxes and customs duties.
2/ Includes a port tariff study and a study for reorganizing OWEP.
4/ Includes training and fellowships for and ODEP personnel as well as TRAINMAR program.
SJ Includes experts for port operation. container terminal. workshops. finance and system analysis.
f/ As of July 1985 prices.
Z/ 15% on rehabilitation and 10% on equipment and technical assistance.
I/ (a) local costs: 12% on 1985. 10% on 1986. and 8% on 1987. 1988 and 1989; and (b) foreign costs: 5%
on 198S. 7.5% on 1986 and 8% on 1987. 1988 and 1989.
Source:  Bank staff. October 1985



- 54 -
Table 10(8)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT RF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PoRTS OF CASABLANCA ANID MHAMEOIA
Detalted Cost Estt ate
(Part B. OPCN)
DO  Mlllion                USS Million  1/        Perc ntage or
Lpcal I/   Foreign   Tloal   Li0. V   Fore1oc  Totil          sage Case.
A. Rahabllitati0n
1.  Dredging                      11.40      15.74    27.14    1.12        1.S4      2.66         23.6
2.  Casablanca Breakwater         10.96       15.14    26.10    1.07        1.49     2.56         22.7
3. Control tower                   .S57      0.79       1.3S  0.L.0i       07Z       lii          -1.2
Sub total A               2k2,3      31.67    S4.60    2.J5         3.1     5l            47AS
B.  £uiu
4.  Mahedla breakwater Y          23.59       32.57    56.16    2.31        3.19     S.-S         48.9
C. Teahoial Assistance
S. Project preparatlon
and superv1sion             0.85       1.97      2.82    0.08       0.19      0.27          2.4
6. Tra1n1ng y                      Li.4       I.M5      1.36    0.0        mm0.       .13          la1
Sub total B                1 26     2_93 4.18    0 12              *20       01 4          3L6
Total base cost           47L77      6717   11494                  6 sa     11 26i       1000
7.  Piysical contingency fi        5.92       8.30    14.22    0.S8        0.81      1.39          12.3
8.  Prlce contingenCy Z(           L.3 i     1L-çi   2600    1 2           L 3       25           2".I
Total continOencies      1lZ7       21!95    49L22   lm           Li          t 235
Total cost                66.04      89.12   15S.26    6.47        8.73    15.20         135.0
If US$ 1 = ON 10.440
V Snclud1ng taxes and custons dutles.
2/ Equlpunt for maintalnlng recently constructed breakwater.
SI Sncludes training and fellowships for GPCH and 0OEP personnel as well as TRAIIMR progran.
S/ as of October 198S prices.
fil ISS on rehabilltat1On and 10Z on equlpment and technical assistance.
7l la) local costs: 12X on 1985. 10X on 1986 and 6X on 1987. 19S8 and 1909: and <b) fore1gn costs: 5 on
1985. 7.5S on 1986 and 8X on 1987. 1988 and 1989.
Source: Bank staff. October 1985



ANNEX 1
Table Il
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS 0F CASABLANCA AND NOHOAMEDIA
Éconmie EÉvaluation or  uantiftable Beneftts
LUSLIHiUIoeI
Cests
_ mui ffients                                   Investments
Avotding     Avotding Ceneral                       Breakwater                                         Met
Breakuater    Cargo Camage and        Technical      Maintenance    Selected Civll                     Annual
xtsa    ....Jmosrt..    Other Lasses         Assistanuf     E[auiLe.t          Warks         alaintmoance    enef1ts
1905                       1.5 3/               .210           1.44                                              .1S
1106        -               .15                 .446           3.04              .94                            2.9
197         -              1.5                 1.170                            1.2                             -.9
190        -               1.5                 1.170                            1.2                              .9
1909       S 'i            1.5                  .140                            1.4                             4.9
1990      1o 21            1.5                                                                   .500          il
1991                       1.5                                                                  .500            1
1992       -               1.5                                                                  .500            1
ECR - 47S
1 Expected loss at Casablanca if we assume wîth a probability of 10% that the
breakuater .111 suffer a USSSO million damage wvthout maintenance for S
coosecutlve years.
Il  Expected loss at Mwfamdia if we assume with a probability of loK that the breakwater
.111l suffer a USS100 mîllton damage without naintenance for 5 consecuttve years.
US$6SOUton of general cargo x2 million tonryear subject to damage. loss. pilferage
x S% prflabllity of loss. etc. x 21 losses and damage plus other waste and lasses
of about US$600 thousand per year avoided with the project.
Sour: Bank staff est1-ate. December 1984



MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOIAMIEDIA
CIOCL.RY  . -  NUNCC5P!.QALLEMfRGYJSI
the lisue rfised by tlhe t Ilowing article would be resolved by mans of spemctie e.coPtmons rother thon by
m3diflcatlon in the Ocr.e.  This would be ensured throuoh approprlate provisions ln the SAS mui Loan
doeemntation to usae existlng local procedures acceptable for procuremmnt ot ItemS f nanced by the *aruk Crou.
Acceptable
à 16-471           33          *td evaluatton              lids my> not b. altéer   Ne blidar smilou  ke
coi.lttee y sa'ot only   afLer btd epenlne            reqsed or pbrmltted to
seek clarifications        te. G. C .46)              alter his bld atter bld
from bIdders. tutmy                                   openin  (à. C. 1.46>
mlso request bidders
to sadify theilr bld
after bld openîn,.
'n
o '



Clarirlcations andlor understandlngs wtll bu sought on procedures to be Yollawed for procurbmnt of sank
financed cofitrActs with respect to the follIowlng provsIion%.
ProceAwes to W Included
Ourle            ^rLtcim                 lisue                     Cov'inL                   tn doeI.fltatlon
.74649         I             Procedures reviewed         Procedureç appltCable to    Migre Project mntity sr«ures
209 61         I             apply only to               procurement of Itemn to        Bank fInanced Items under
155-66         1             procurefnt for the          be carrbed out by              *CO. SA* shouli tiarify  Wthetor
CCAG           I             qoverviIent s Account.       Project entlty                ad ten    fit tOtesit the d" cri"
tparnstatal. privati          and CCAc ssuly to the Project
enterorisel should be         entity and condtttions under
açcertained.  Althoueh        whIch.the Irocodures therein
In orectlce the decrees       or ether proceOdues ère
are aoplled to paristals,    acceptable.
the bah%% on whtch they
Are Applied should be
clAriried.
2-76 479       21-5 Limited LCI upon                     Thl% Is be conSldered        1I  li.Ited ICI  s tao b  uned.
dieect tnwîtation           accePtable for imali           SAR and loan documentatlon
(appel d'offres             amounts.                      should suechty termi and
restreint) 15                                             conditions <cut-off threshold)
Permiltted for                                             under which ht wll be appited.
contracts under
OH I million. timits
can be raised by Prime
Mmnister.
oooe
Ln



ClmrtricstIoni andior understandinqi w1ll be sought on procedures to bu tolltod fer roreureeont it *me
ftnanced contracts with respect to the folloulng provisioni.
Proebwu te  é lnelift
OecL!eg          Actila                                       C    rLsue  colt             ta          kAffl
3 76-47        26 and       *ld omenîn,  I5             Public openlng shouli k       SAS ced loeff dîueftstln
Il           closed to public            required 18.C. 23.46.         should re,uto thit Invitations
ul*Is In vtaitIon to                                      te bld lisectrV  pble  Moine
btd otherutse                                             et bits il.0. 1.01.
spec fies.
io s  i5      SrFor worhs, b0d bond                     Ir comoanles dIspensu d       SAS and loin dscintetn                                              c
{CCaGj                      ts opilonal and uy, be    troa  providing btd-bnds    te seecttp th0t ail                                                     c
rcquired In btddtng        ère to pitl "t .t t           elîolble bludts shoulI
documents.                  ln blddn, bld-bondt          urowlod bld-bonds or
should be r.euired oaer      dl?ferantlatm°n Vaectre
tl te tO     pailt te aIl    owiluatltu  er«ess
bldders <1.6. LC  Ç à 3.341 wOuld k  uued ln bld
oêuit lin.
1og bS         n1           Unlesq  otherwlse           Purchse Oft ooods             Sie cM lien. duietotlwi
CCAO                         prov ded In                provîded by bldders           uhouid *tM'tf  tht oO         p 
'nhernatlmeml              froe, and o*rduced to        bk  rovlded by bldetrs *ri.
aoree nts, aIl             or sugplled froe  ther   «l   otecurtd le or suillid
uoods reouired for         sources eieîgble under        trou _Il sow tes eligble ydtr
wovhs oust le Of           d.C  11 S      1,I4 sholi     *C
Noroccan orlin.             be persItted.
O b
M1



cAtcGQRnLLP aO"LSHS..m ouIlMG.Sw.1aL                PtIauG
C14rifteattons and/or under%tandinis will be scught on oroceduirel to bu followed opr roecurt _t of fnk
tInmtted contrAtcS wILh re5Sect tO the followin plrovI%on0.
Prodiurs te b  Ineludui
Omcreu           fr.t. C   le             L55ue                 Comunt                        =* 1scmmkatIto
209 65         1              the CCAG apply               Genera) condittons             Si and. ft n eassary,  loin
ICCACI         I              only to civtl works.         <cahier des chares)            docuLentîtlon îhould el0it1v
ISI 66         I                                          *oltcable te oeeds              wbat monmrol tuwltlsoS
shouId be                       usty t. goeds *d servIeso.
*scertained.  Although         and Setent te uhleh dglhleuble
in practice the               condltIons ore îecestble.
CCAG appear td be uSsd
for qaods As well as
worb,, tIhe bits on,
ind extent to whiCh,
they are applicable
Is uiec ear.
2 76-079       ?S             Adwertistng pertod           15 days is fenerilly           SA* and loin doeuentatton
mAy be as short As            insuttictent tlr to          sho4ld speciPy un
IS das.                     en4ble bldders to               idvertluingo prlod et
obtAtn docuefnts and           sufficl<nt  Igoth to  nble
prepare and submit             bldders te obtain docmunts
report%                        and    oir*e and subkit
reseonses (bc 1.1  and rmlwre
bIdding procudure to amply such
min tow.m
3.16*41q                      0Idders maiy e'ther          ent%coume procedure            SO  ad loin docuentation
submît à procosed            1s unclear nd deft4ts          should spccty that bIdders be
price (offre de ortwx        comoetittve protesl.           requ)red te sublt prie sPVgrs
or i discount on                                            In thelr bds.
the orice estabItshed
by the  overwment
dyrAbalsl .
oo cr 2C
n %
O N



the *orrower will be encouraged te nwAf  tmproveonts In the tollowtn  provtllons tO efSure botter CO   titoen
and r4r trestment Of afl bldders.
0tmr,t            A.LU tLç                                       CwjJnt                        ProcadurC
2-y6.47q       30.35          BId opentnp through           iher  two en*vlopp             Overttuo chenee mheuld bi ta
two-%tro  rocess with        systb  uied. delays            off envelo   ysItem
firit enveloue to            In oPening second              <UC. 2 l>.
orovtde documentation        *nvelope discourmges
and second envelope          btddtng  nd cen leed
priceu                       to abuses.
Second envelopf tO b,
opened 1t Contractor 1s
qualitied on bisis o*
Information In VirSt
ooe Cr 
fb 19 tu
O x



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Casablanca Port Facilities
Introduction
The port of Casablanca, constructed about 60 years ago, is well
protected from the south west wind during winter as well as from the north
east wind during summer.  Protection is provided by two breakwaters: the main
breakwater 3.18 km long, and the secondary breakwater 1.15 km long. Water
depth is 12 m in the leading channel and 9 to 12 m in front of the deep water
berth. Tidal range is 3.6 m.
Berths
Deep water berths totalling about 5.4 km and include:
)    breakwater berths include three berths each 150 m long and 9 to 12 m
deep for big vessels and dangerous cargo, and one dolphin berth 11 m
deep for oil tankers;
(ii)    Tarik pier include two berths totalling 225 m long and 9 m deep for
container ship and three berths for Ro/Ro ships;
(iii)   commercial pier includes 13 berths totalling 1,600 m long and 9 to 10
mn deep for general cargo and grain;
(iv)    Sidi Belyout berth totalling 220 m long and 8.5 m deep for general
cargo;
(v)    Citrus pier includes 15 berths totalling 1,470 m long and 9 to 9.5 m
deep for exporting citrus and vegetables;
(vi)    Rive berth totalling 200 m long and 9 m deep for general cargo and
scrap iron; and
(vii)   Phosphate pier includes eight berths totalling 1,110 m long and 9 to
12 m deep for exporting phosphates and vegetable oil and importing
coal.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Support Facilities
-   Transit sheds 126,000 m2
-   Open sided sheds 75,000 m2
-   Open storage areas 300,000 mz
-   Offices 50,000 mz
-   Roads 19 km
-   Railroads 25 km
-   Electrical cables 25 km
-   Transformer stations 48
-   Water supply system 22 km, 8kg/cm2
Cargo Randling Equipment
These include:
-    one floating crane 150 t capacity in bad operating condition
resulting in its capacity being limited to 25 t;
-    one new floating crane 50 t capacity;
-    tvo floating cranes 30 t capacity one has to be scrapped and one in
reasonably working condition but needs rehabilitation;
-    two tug boars 150 and 225 hp, one out of order and one needs repair;
-    5 barges 2-50 t and 3-300 t capacity all in good condition;
-    one crane on rails (Titan) on the main breakwater 100 t capacity in
reasonable condition;
-    two container quay cranes on rails 25 t capacity in good working
conditions;
-    7 straddle carriers 30 t capacity for 20 ft and 40 ft containers all
in good working condition;
-    67 quay cranes on rails 5 and 6 t capacity of which 29 have to be
scrapped and the rest in reasonable working condition but some needs
repair. 26 additional cranes are being negotiated;
-    8 mobile cranes 6 t capacity in moderate working condition;
-    19 forklift trucks 10 t capacity, 6 of them in bad condition and the
remaining 13 in good working condition;
-    170 forklift trucks 2 1(2 to 4 t capacity, 502 in moderate condition
and 502 in good working condition;
-    194 tractors 70 to 80 hp, 54 in moderate condition and the remaining
140 in good working condition;
-    22 cars, 4 cylinder, 8 to 15 hp, the majority of which is in good
working condition.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Action Plan
1.       ODEP will prepare for Bank review at the end of each calendar year a
report, in such detail as the Bank may request, on maintenance works carried
out during the year and their costs, as well as works scheduled for the next
calendar year (para. 3.20).
2.       ODEP will undertake, starting October 1, 1986, a comprehensive
investigation of the incidence and causes of delay to cargo, vehicles and
vessels in respect of import and export traffics through the port of
Casablanca and Mohammedia, identify and assess associated costs, including
those borne by the port and by business using the port, and report
accordingly, with specific recommendations addressed to named organizations
and interests (para. 3.26).
3.       ODEP will assign qualified engineers in adequate number to be agreed
with the Bank to work as counterparts to the supervision consultants and the
workshop specialist, as well as qualified staff to the other technical
assistance specialists (para. 4.18).
4.       ODEP will employ, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) a port operation specialist by July 1, 1986 for a period of 24 months; (b)
an internal audit specialist by October 1, 1986 for a period of five months;
(c) financial management specialists by January 1, 1987 for a total of 24
staff months; (d) a management information system specialist by April 1, 1986
for a period of 12 months; and (e) container terminal specialists by July 1,
1986 for a total of 24 staff months; (f) workshop specialists by April 1, 1986
for a total of 24 staff months (para. 4.19).
5.       ODEP wi'l prepare and furnish to the Bank for review by December 31
of each year, starting in 1986, a detailed action plan for the next year
setting forth its institutional, organizational, planning and financial
objectives and the actions to be taken to achieve these objectives;
thereafter, it will carry out the plan, taking into account the Bank's
comments and furnish to the Bank by June 30 of each year a report on progress
achieved in carrying out these action.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Detailed Project Description
A. Rehabilitation Works
Details of rehabilitation works, all in Casablanca port, are given in
paras. 4.03 to 4.08 and para. 4.1L.
B. Equipment
Workshop Equipment
Saome workshop equipment available to ODEP are about 40 years old, in
poor condition, and need to be scrapped. The proposed project vill provide
replacement for such equipment. These include:
(a) For the mechanical workshop: three lathes, three milling machines,
one grinding machine, one raaial drilling machine, two-winding lathes, one
test bench, one cable winch, one compressor, two 5 t and 10 t cranes, two
hydraulic press, one mobile maintenance unit and spare parts for the abave
equipment.
(b) For crane maintenance: two 100 t hydraulic press, three drill press,
15 vices, two portable generators, one bending machine, three hoists, three
bend testing machines, and greasing and lubricating sets as well as spare
parts for the above equipment.
(c) For the body shop: a sheet bending machines, a circular saw, two
pumps and jacks, a chopper, two drill stands, two velding machines, six vices,
tire repair machine and spare parts for above mentioned equipment; and
(d) Miscellaneous tool.
Delivery of all above mentioned equipment are scheduled for
April lc87.
Mohammedia Breakwater Maintenance Equipment
The engineering consultants responsible for project preparation vill
assess and propose the most suitable equipment to ensure adequate continuous
maintenance to the breakwater at the least cost. These are expected to
include:



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
a gantry heavy lifting crane on rails along the unprotected length of
the breakwater capable of putting 60 t concrete blocks at
breakwater's toe;
a concrete mixer (or two smaller mixers) capable of providing the
appropriate number of concrete blocks at the least cost;
forms needed for casting the concrete blocks;
a gantry crane, (or a mobiLe crane whichever is more economical) 60 t
capacity to put the concrete blocks on trailers commuting between the
concrete casting yard and the breakwater; and
tractors and trailers in adequate numbers and capacities to transport
the concrete blocks from the concrete casting yard to the breakwater.
C. Technical Assistance
The proposed project will provide for consulting services, port
specialists, and training program and fellowships to help ODEP in project
executing and, in particular:
(a) Consulting services for project preparation;
(b) Consulting services for supervision of rehabilitation works and
equipment purchase;
(c) consulting services to carry out a port tariff study mainly with the
objective of adjusting the tariff structure to be based on cost of
services;
(d) consulting services to reorganize ODEP's structure and administrative
procedures;
(e) financial management specialists for 24 staff-months to:
Mi) review the present financial accounting system and ensure its
compliance with the national accounts code and international
standards;
(ii) devise a cost accounting system, integrated with the financial
accounts, and based on the tariff structure, which will provide
adequate costing data to enable management to make timely
decisions regarding port tariff rates;
(iii) establish budget preparation and control system;
(iv) prepare necessary manuals on: (il' to (iii) above;
(v) help in recruiting netessary additional staff, undertake the
training of all staff in the financial and commercial
departments, and assist management in the use of all above
mentioned systems; and



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
(vi)    prepare quarterly progress reports on their assignment.
(f)  internal audit specialist for a period of five months to establish
effective control and audit systems and prepare necessary manuals
thereof;
(g) Port operation specialists for 24 staff-months to:
(i)    devise and install efficient port operation and cargo handling
procedures;
(ii)    train permanent staff and, where necessary, casual port labor,
in these procedures and in equipment operation;
(iii)    prepare necessary documentation in conjunction with the
financial management specialist; and
(iv)    prepare quarterly progress reports on his assignment.
(h) Container terminal specialists for 24 staff-months to:
(i)    review the quality and efficiency of staff and container
handling equipment available to ODEP and recommend measures to
improve their productivity;
(ii)    advise on the most appropriate procedures and techniques to
handle, transport, store, and stack containers;
(iii)     assess training needs for staff and labor and implement an
on-the-job training programs to be discussed and agreed with
ODEP; and
(iv)    advise on the design of the future container terminal at
Mohammedia under contract with Soros Association and financed by
ODEP;
(v)    advise on marketing of containerizable cargo;
(vi)    prepare quarterly progress reports on their assignment.
(i) Workshop specialists for 24 staff-months to:
(i)    reorganize ODEP's workshops in order to provide the most
efficient and least cost maintenance works;
(ii)    design and implement a preventive maintenance scheme for ODEP's
cargo handling equipment and provide guidance as to repair
procedures;



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
tiii)     compare cost and standard of repair works as provided by ODEP
with those providing private companies and advise ODEP on the
most appropriate and economical means of repairing its equipment
in future;
(iv)    design and implement on-the-job training programs for ODEP's
skilled and semi-skilled labor and recommend training programs
abroad for ODEP's engineers; and
(v)    prepare quarterly progress reports on their assignment.
(j) Management information system specialist for a period of 12 months to:
(i)   devise and implement systems to collect all data related to port
productivity, cargo delays, causes and costs of such delays,
cargo safety on the quays and cargo turnaround in the sheds:
integrate DPCM data management system into ODEP's system; and
'ii)    coordinate work with the port operations and containers
operating specialists; and
(iii)     participate to the works of Commission for Trade Facilitation to
be established under FITPA agreements;
(iv)    prepare quarterly reports on progress made on each task assigned-
(k) Training
(i)    training abroad for two civil engineers to attend Delft
University (Holland) for one year to study maritime engineering;
(ii)    training abroad for 10 civil, mechanical and electrical
engineers, each for 3 months mainly through visits to different
ports;
(iii)    training abroad for five managers and port operation staff
mainly through visits to different ports; and
(iv)    on-the-job training for skilled and semi-skilled labor to be
carried out by the technical assistance experts provided under
the proposed project.
(v)    development of the TRAINMAR system for training of port staff
and labor.



MOROCCO
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
19S5                         1986                        1981                         1988                         1989
3      4                                          22  3  4            _ 2  3   2      3      4              2      a      4
A PROJiCI PREPARAIION                         _H
a CSIL WORKS
C EQUIPMlN1
*uMrJ                                                                                                                          . .  -q~      
D IECHNICAl ASSISIANCE
/ri Ûç,ora'ur` S~c.ui)                                                         --                          -       - _                 ._-
CoflCoi'o. l efrrr,irotilrx t-                                                               -                            -       -is t  _  _  _
,ttL)&Y%x specall:A,l15                                                         _ 
NcM~~~~~s'~~~~> S~~~~~ocrc~~~~~~r,?  -      -      -      -       -      -      -       - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Wm  cn  -2 11
|0 a' s--                                                                                    ._1._.___      -                                                             w-  -                                 | -



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year and Quarter
Quarter           Cumulative
1985/1986, Quarter ending
December 31, 1985                               0.10                 0.10
March 31., 1986                                 0.90                 1.00
June 30, 1986                                   0.42                 1.42
1986/1987 Quarter ending
September 30, 1986                              1.94                 3.36
December 31, 1986                               0.73                 4.08
March 31, 1987                                  1.10                 5.19
June 30, 1987                                   1.05                 6.24
1987/1988, Quarter ending
September 30, 1987                              1.65                 7.89
December 31, 1987                               1.21                 9.10
March 31, 1988                                  1.01                10.11
June 30, 1988                                   1.46                11.57
1988/1989, Quarter ending
September 30, 1988                              2.35                13.92
December 31, 1988                               1.18                15.10
March 31, 1989                                  0.97                16.07
June 30, 1989                                   0.93                17.00
1989/1990, Quarter ending
September 30, 1989                              0.92                17.92
December 31, 1989                               0.90                18.82
March 31, 1990                                  0.85                19.67
June 30, 1990                                   0.83                20.50
1990/1991, Quarter ending
September 30, 1990                              0.64                21.14
December 31, 1990                               0.48                21.62
March 31, 1991                                  0.25                21.87
June 30, 1991                                   0.13                22.00
Source:: Bank staff
March 1985



- 70 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAIMEDIA
Financial Performance of RAPC
RAPC - Income Statement: 1980-84
(in OH million)
Revenues
Cargo Handl1ng             )                 90.7       97.0        81.2    112.2
Storage                    )                112.5      124.5       143.7    175.8
Charges on 011                   2 237.5     21.4       21.7        21.9      22.5
Charges on Ores            )                  9.6       13.2        13.8      17.0
Flshing Port                       8.4        9.3        9.2        10.5      10.7
Pilotage. Towage           )                  5.1        6.9        10.3     16.3
Other                      )       3.0       34.8       47.2        54.7     58.0
Sub-total                  248.9       283.4      319.7       336.1    412.5
Oneratina Exoenses
Consumables                       17.8        19.7      26.0        26.3      35.4
Labor Costs                      129.4      141.2      150.0       15S.6    162.0
Other                             29.4       29.3       32.1        44.7     63.8
Taxes and Dut1es                4. 8          4-.8     --L56.3A
Sub-total                  181.4       195.0      213.4      231.2    268.0
Depreciation. provision          .5L         60.8       71.7        68.7     87.4
Total                      232.9       255.8      285.1      299.9    355.4
.on-Operating Section                (3.6)       (2.3)  )             (29.3)   (86.2)
Previous Year Sectlon                (9.0)       (9.4)  )  (7,7)       (5.1)    14.4
Interest on L.T. Qebt                 0.0         3.6       5.9         8.2       7.5
Gross Incoe                           3.4        12.3      21.0        (6.4)   (22.2)
Incame Tax                           10.3         1.8       3.8         1.7
Met Income                           (6.9)       10.5      17.2        (8.1)   (22.2)
Inicators
Working Ratio                      0.73       0.69       0.67        0.69      0.65
Operating Ratio                    0.93       0.90       0.89        0.89      0.86
Return 1J                         -3.0X       5.7%       8.0X        0.OX    -3.7X
1/ Calculated on average net fixed assets in use. and after tax.



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORr OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Financlal Perfoannnce of RAPC
RAPC - Balance Sheet: 1980 84
(in DH million)
lm8         lgal       l         -%         IU
Current Assets
Cash                         59.4        81.6       133.4      186.7      184.7
Recelvables                 139.9       162.0   )             235.7      273.3
Suspense Accounts             2.8        15.7       235.8       34.0      60.5
Inventory                     6.          7.31 7.               7,0       12 9
Sub-total             208.5       266.6       377.0      463.4      531.4
F1xed Assets.
Gross Value
- Clvil Works               131.8       140.7       14S.3      152.7     171.7
- Equlpment                 421.8      449.6        574.7     629.5      793.0
- Other                      52.4        548.        S4.5      59.4       7Q0 
Sub-total             606.0       645.1       774.5      841.5    1034.7
Less: Depreciation          357.1       40.3        445.0     493.3      59Q.6
Net Fixed Assets            248.9       244.8       329.5      348.2     444.1
Work In Progress                36.1        19.3        17.0        6.5       4S.0
Investments                      1.7         1.4         1.6        2.7       19.3
TOTAL ASSETS          495.2       532.1       725.1      820.8    1039.8
Current Liabilities
Payables                    161.2       186.3         n.a.    254.3      264.5
Suspense Accounts            20.1        42.5         n.a.     96.5       45.2
Sub-total             181.3       228.8       289.8      350.8      309.7
Lonc-Term Debt                  76.5        56.8       142.1      169.9     253.2
Government Equity           236.9       236.9       241.5     257.0
Subsidies                    45.3        50.3        73.7      75.5      496.3
Provision                    34.8        28.4        29.9      27.6       62.8
Accumulated Losses          179.6)1      69l1)      151.90    L60.0)    L82.2)
Sub-total             237.4       246.5       293.2      300.1      476.9
TOTAL LIABILITIES    495.2        532.1       725.i      820.8    1039.8
Indicators
Current Ratio                 1.15        1.17        1.30       1.32       1.72
Debt Equity Ratio             24/76       19/81       33/67       36/64       35/65



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE FORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.       Traffic will increase at an average yearly rate of 2% throughout
the 1985-1989 period, and oE 5% thereafter. The same trend will apply to
revenues as defined above plus DR 10 million corresponding to dues on oil
traffic at Mohammedia which were not collected until now.  Traffic
generation in the new ports of Nador and Jorf Lasfar is taken into account.
2.       Labor costs will be revised upward to follow the cost of living
index and reflect regular promotions and additional recruitments; they are
assumed to grow by 5% above the yearly inflation rate. The other working
expenses, increase in accordance with the local inflation rates. In 1988,
the working expenses will be further increased by DH 4.0 million in
relation to maintenance at Jorf Lasfar. This cost will be revised after in
accordance with the above.
3.       Under its new attributions, ODEP will finance: (i) the
rehabilitation works at Casablanca under the project; (ii) the oil jetties
at Mohammedia which cost of DH 100 million will be incurred in 1985 and
1986. The former investment will not require borrowings other than the
Bank loan to be repaid over a period of 20 years including a 5-year grace
period. The latter will be entirely financed by foreign loans with
interest at 9%, a 3-year period of grace and 14 repayment annuities. Over
the 1985-89 period, suppliers credit will be used to finance some 48% of
the total investment programL for cargo handling equipment at an interest
rate of 10%, a l-year of grace and repayment over 6 years.
4.       The projection of finance related to commercial activities is
bas d on the ODEP estimate with the following corrections: (i> revenue to
grow 2% on average per year until 1990, instead of 3%; (ii) the working
expenses to be converted in current dirham using local inflation rates plus
5% in the case of labor costs. The investment program until 1987 is
designed to eliminate shortage of capacity in some ports and after 1987, to
replace the scrapped equipment.
5.       Repayment by Government of its overdue debt will be made in
accordance with the plan submitted by Government. Those repayments will
extend over 3 years, totalling DR 120 million. ODEP will use those funds
to pay its own arrears.



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of :3
6.       ODEP will make appropriation of funds generaLed by the public port
activities for future major rehabilitation works during the early years of
the project, when related expenses are still low. The total provision will
be equivalent to local funds needed to finance the projecL. The taxation
rate applicable ta gross income earned from commercial activities is 44%.
The other income is not taxable.
7.       Financial statements for FY 1984 were used as the basis for
financial projections with some adjustment being brought to the value of
fized assets for the following reasons:
a) the projected balance sheet only incorporates those assets which
are ODEP property;
b) whether or not ODEP wilL be given the governmenit assets which they
are assigned by law to renew, replace and expand at their cost is still
being discussed between the two parties and the decision should come within
the next 6 months.
The projection assumes that the assets referred to in b) above
will become ODEP's property and will be depreciated accordingly.
The adjusted balance sheet as of January 1, 1985 is taken as
follows (in Dh million):
Assets                                Liabilities
Gross Fixed Assets               1,700       Equity, reserve              788
Less:                                        Long-Term Debt               253
Accumulated Depreciation         900       Payables                     310
Net Fixed Assets                   800
Other Assets                        19
Inventory                           13
Receivables                        334
Cash                               185
Total assets                                                  1X351
8.       The fee is deternmined as follows:
a) Total assets in the various ports where ODEP operates were
idenitified and revalued to a total of Dh 9.065 hillion.  The corresponding
.reakdown is:
Casablanca          Dh 3.041 billion
Mohammedia          Dh 1.119 billion
Agadir              Dh 0.875 billion
Tanger              Dh 0.540 billion
Kenitra             Dh 0.225 billion
Safi                Dh 1.071 billion
Nador               Dh 0.244 billion
Jorf Lasfar         Dh 1.570 billion
Saharian Ports      Dh 0.380 billion



- 74 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
b) The above total is reduced by: i) the assets owned by ODEP
such as in Mohammedia and Tangiers where the infrastructure and equipment
was financed by RAPC from which ODEP took over:  they amount to Dh 0.8
billion, ii) the assets used either by other operators such as ONICL and
OCP, the fishing activities and the Navy: they amount to about Dh 1.0
billion, iii) the assets which are still Government property, but will be
transferred to ODEP as explained in Para. 7 b) above: they amount to
Dh 0.7 billion. Those deductions relating to ports other than Jorf Lasfar
and Nador bring the total gross value down to Dh 6.6 billion.
c)  Further deductions are made in relation to the breakwaters:
only part of their value is apportioned to ODEP to account for two
factors: i) their apportionment to other operators, ii) their
indivisibilities in ports still at an early stage of development. The
coefficient are:
-Casablanca         33%               to ODEP
-Mohammedia         10%               to ODEP
-Agadir             30%               to ODEP
-Safi               33%               to ODEP
-Nador              10%               to ODEP
-Jorf Lasfar         5%               to ODEP
The overall reduction is equivalent to Dh 3.8 billion.
d) The other assets in the new ports of Jorf Lasfar and Nador are
also reduced by the use made by other operators. The reduction is about
Dh 0.6 billion.
The gross value of assets on which to base the ODEP's fee is
therefore Dh 2.2 billion. For alL infrastructure depreciation is made at
1%. The low rate is justified by the upkeep and rehabilitation works that
ODEP undertakes.



75 -                           ANNEX 8
STAFF APPARAI.1 REPORT 0P
A PORT PROJECTI
TM  PORTh OF CASAULA AIU-  N       IA
Projected COU Flou Statunt
lui9    î9 H6             1908 IS811       1lm0     1991
SUIICES Of FUOS
Rutmntlon ot Fn (09CM)          0.811    9.bb7   26.18   35.70I  12.546   13.Z17   12.752
Lacs Af ttr TU                  8.960  40.465   b4.9gb   78.443   95.6ao  104.724  129.232
Dupracitter                    1S.O0  107.04  129.219  144.44  156.414  168.480  11.211
Appropr. for Public Part       54.093  4U.0X   27.000    Z.208   4.511    9.022    V.022
Subtutal          148.869 202.080 240.182  280.817  269.151  295.blO  332.278
OPOI Loon                       0.183   11.162   34.S9Z   40.594    2.5H    0.00    0.000
IIRD Loten I0EP]                1.161   20.538   52.311   54.196    7.123   o.0oo    0.000
Suppliers CrdaL                10.Oo   200.000   7a.000  130.000   20.0O0    0.000   O.OD0
turWean Len                    715.000  25.O0    0.00D0   0.000    O.O      0.000   0.0D00
foiunrmht Arrers               b0.OOO   30.000   30.000
--_--   --  .    ____   ---..-.  ------_---- ---_-------- ----._---_-
Shtetoi           206.344  286.700  166.903  224.790  29.03    0.000   O.0O
TUTAL SOUCES           355.213  488.780  427.085 485.607  290.854  295.510  332.278
...............................................................
APPLICATION OF FUINOS
____________________
. Iivetuants
-----------
18RD Projmct                    2.00h   40.462  102.501  104.741   13.841    O.OO   0.0W
MandlInq Equlpent             240.000  275.000 2.000  151.000  160.000  170.000  180.000
11i Berths                     15.00    25.000    0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000   0.000
-----------------__--,----------------------------------- -----
Saibtatl          317.0S5  340.462  311.501  255.74' 173.841  170.000  180.000
2. DP04 Praject                     0.324   19.5Sb  60.510   70.282   4.531    0.000   O.ODO
------------
3. Panent of Arreurs               60.0Do   30.00O   30.000    0.000   0.00    0.000   0.000
._________________
4. P*>nt DMCN Loan                  0.6/6    1.133    2.980   6.013   10.595   13.2/6  l2.M52
----------------_-
b. Loun #ua>nt
______________
IERS Loan (OU)                  0.O0   0U.OD    0.000   0.000   4.511    9.022    9.022
SuapeIers Credlt                0.000   11.667  45.0O0   56.667   10.333  81.667  81.661
Euraepen Loen                   O.ODO   0.0D    0.000    7.140    7.140    1.140   1.140
bet Prier ta 1985              26.100   35.800   35.B00   34.500   30.000   17.100   16.900
ubtaetaI           26.100   47.467  8B.8D0   98.307  119.984  114.929  114.129
6. UtIlaatioen of 4ppropr.          0.924   19.924   50.190   50.545    6.710    0.0W0    0.000
______________________
7. barking Capital
_______________
increase/(oecreasuj             -1.735  -21.4CO   19.159   13.8H4   16.332    7.521    7.112
TOTAL APPLICATIoU           403.374  437.182  516.022  494.772  332.001  3a5.126  314.593
VAgIATIU OF CASH
Cash - OegimiIng of teur      185.000  136.840  180.436  9s.701   89.S36   56.389  46.173
Cash - incr/(SecrJ            -48.160   51.590  -9.137  -9.165  -33.147  -10.215   17.684
Cash - En et Saur             136.840  180.430   98.701  09.536   56.389  46.173  63.858
RATIOS
Sebt Service Caenrage             2.3      2.1      1.8     1.8      1.7      2.0      2.3
Sauna:  EP *& Sain
April 1985



- 76 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
MORUCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT PROJECT;
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOtAMnEDIA
Projected Income Statement
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
-------------------------------------------------------------
A. PUBLIC PORT
___________
(Tariff Increase)              (30%)    (5%)    <5%)    (5%)    <5%)    (5%)    (5%)
Uperating Revenues
-b6eeral bues                141.160  179.316  193.807 208.038 224.966  249.622 275.097
-Fishing Port Dues             2.350   2.912   3.265   3.553   3.841   4.214   4.425
-------------------------------------------------------------
Sub-Total          143.510  182.228  197.072  211.591  228.807  253.836 279.522
Operating Expenses
-Consumables                   5.000   8.250   8.745   9.270   9.825   10.418  11.040
-Labor Costs                  14.500  25.013  27.753  30.820  34.213  37.976  42.152
-Other Costs                  13.500  22.275  23.612  25.029  26.528  28.127  29.808
-Tax on Sales                 15.356  19.498  21.087  22.640  24.482  27.160  29.909
Sua-Total           48.356  75.036  81.196  87.759  95.048  103.681  112.908
-bovernment Fee               40.0uO  40.000  50.000  60.000  75.000  90.000  102.000
-Appropriation                54.093  45.000  27.000   2.208   4.511   9.022    9.022
_____________________________________________________________
Sub-Total          142.448  160.036  158.196  149.967  174.559  202.703 223.930
b. CuMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES
(Tariff Increase)              (202)   (12.5%)   (10%)    (10%)   (1O%)    (5%)    (5%)
Operating Revenues
-Cargo Hanaling. Storage     275.110 346.950  395.307 443.169 497.727  537.707 594.308
-Lharges on Uil               25.630  32.400  39.353  44.105  50.312  54.714  60.421
-Charges on ures              34.540  49.275  54.945  61.746  69.179  73.958  79.043
-Pilotage, Towage             11.220  16.200  17.820  21.236  26.054  28.300  33.677
-Uther                        66.000  83.430  95.040  106.668  119.670  129.427  142.634
-------------------------------------------------------------
Sub-Total          412.500  528.255 602.465 676.922  762.943 824.107  910.084
Operating Expenses
-Labor Costs                 185.000  212.750 236.060  262.145 291.005  323.010 358.530
-Uther txpenses              100.000  110.000  116.600  123.600  131.000  138.900  147.200
-------------------------------------------------------------
Sub-Total          285.00U  322.750  352.660  385.745 422.005 461.910 505.730
-uepreciation                 85.0o0  107.048  129.299  144.464  156.414  168.488  181.271
-------------------------------------------------------------
Sub-Total          370.000  429.798 481.959 530.209 578.419  630.398 687.001
C. Interest on Long-Tern Debt      27.562  43.390  55.194  61.259  60.915  50.835  39.903
D. Consolicated Income
Income Before Tax             16.000  77.259  104.187  147.078  177.857  194.008 238.772
Less; Taxes                    7.040   33.994  45.842   64.714  78.257  85.363  105.060
---__--------------------------------------------------------
Net Income            8.960  43.265  58.345  82.363  99.600  108.644  133.712
RATIOS
Uperating Ratio                  U.82    0.77    0.77    0./6    0.75    0.76    0.76
Return on Average NFA ()          4.5      7.8     7.8      8.2      8.4     7.8      8.0
Source;OuEP & 5ank
November 7, 1985



- 77 -
ANNEX 8
Table 3
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND NMHAISEDIA
Projected Balance Sheet
1985     1986     1987    1988    1989      1990    1991
--------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
1. CuRRENT ASSETS
______________
Cash                          136.840  190.398  104.021   98.832   69.605   63.309   85.362
Accounts Receivable           276.528  243.145  199.884  177.703  198.350  215.589  237.921
Inventory                      13.000   14.300   15.730   16.674   17.674   18.735   19.859
______________________________________________________________
Subtotal          426.367  447.843  319.635  293.208  285.629  297.633  343.142
2. FIXEO ASSETS
____________
Gross F.cd etsets             1942.085 2451.756 3059.397 3498.702 3882.465 4285.413 4722.538
Less; Depreciation            985.000 1190.548 1415.091 1644.460 1899.542 2182.002 2494.194
Net Fixed Assets              957.085 1261.20B 1644.306 1854.241 1982.923 2103.410 2228.344
3. WORK IN PRtGRESS                75.000  100.000    0.000    0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000
4. uTHER ASSETS                    19.325   19.325   19.325   19.325   19.325   19.325   19.325
____________
--__----------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL ASSETS          1477.777 1828.376 1983.266 2166.774 2287.877 2420.369 2590.811
L [ABILITIES/EQUITY
5. CURKENT LIAbILITIES            254.263  242.740  220.068  185.003  190.319  201.097  217.329
6. LONG TERM DE8T                 373.061  571.132  612.643  698.533  605.671  490.743  376.014
7. APPROPRIATIUN                   53.169   78.245   55.055    6.718    0.000    0.000    0.000
8. EQUITY AND RESERVES            788.325  797.285  840.550  898.895  985.769 1094.391 1212.057
9. REVALUATIUN SURPLUS              0.000   95.709  196.605 295.263  406.518  525.493  651.698
1O.NET INCOIE                       8.960   43.265   58.345   82.363   99.600  108.644  133.712
______________________________________________________________
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY        1477.777 1828.376 1983.266 2166.774 2287.877 2420.369 2590.811
RATIOS
Current Ratio                   1.677    1.845    1.452    1.585    1.501    1.480    1.579
Debt Equity Ratio                  30       36       35       35       29       22       16
70      64       65       65       71       78       84
Working Capital           37.000   35.265   14.704   -4.4-4    9.374   25.705   33.226   40.451
Variation of Work Capital          -1.735  -20.560  -19.159   13.828   16.332    7.521    7.224
Source: OUEP & Bank
November 7. 1985
(58770)



- 78 -
ANNEX 8
Table 4
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Financial Status of the Port Subsector and
its Impact on the Government Budget: Estimates for 1984-90
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
A. Port Directorates
1.   Revenues
ODEP fee                       -    40    40    50    60    75    90
Other                         75     5      6     8    10    12    15
Sub total               75    45    46    58    70    87   105
2.   Expenses
Administration                28    12    15    16    18    20    22
Maintenance                   26    18    20    21    23    25    27
Sub total               55    30    35    37    41    45    49
3.   Net revenues                  20    15    il    21    29    42    56
B. RAPC/ODEP
Income before tax           -22    16    77   104   147   178   194
Tax                                  7    34    46    65    78    85
Net income                   -22     9    43    58    82   100   109
C.  Total Net Revenues/Income
Before tax                   -2    31    88   125   176   220   250
After tax                     -2    24    54    79   111   142   165
D. Net Revenue to the
Government BudRet
(including taxes paid
by ODEP)                                  22    45    67    94   120   141



- 79 -
ANNEX 9
Page l of 2
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PORT PROJECT:
THE PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA
Documents in the Project File
1.     Draft terms of reference
1.01   Engineering consultants for project preparation and supervision.
1.02   Port tariff study.
1.03   Reorganization of ODEP.
1.04   Specialists:
- Financial management
- Internal audit
- Port operation
- Container terminal
- Workshops
- Management information system
2.     Studies
2.01   La Gestion d'un Terminal à Conteneurs (Application au cas du
Terminal du Port de Casablanca), Seminaire, octobre 1984.
2.02   Etude sur la réorganisation du terminal à conteneurs, Casablanca,
by A. Soti, 1983.
2.03   Port of Casablanca.  Procedural and documentary constraints by
John Raven, Consultant, December 1984.
2.04   Casablanca Port Project Operations, David Cullen, Consultant,
December 1984.
2.05   Etude du Plan Directeur Portuaire National et de l'Organisation du
Secteur Portuaire, SOGREAH, July 1982, Vol. 4.
2.06   Etude de faisabilité de l'extension du Port de Casablanca, SOGREAH,
April 1983, July 1983, Vol. 2.
2.07   Projet Stockage des Cereales, Ministère de l'Agriculture, Décembre
1981.
2.08   Etude du contexte eu schéma de développement, SOGREAH, February
1983.
2.09   Port and Inland Cereals Storage Prefeasibility study, December
1982, USDA.
3.     Documents of RAPC
3.01   Activité de la RAPC, 1983.
3.02   Plan Directeur Informatique, SOMARE, December 1984 (3 volumes).
3.03   RAPC - Montuly traffics - August 1984.
3.04   RAPC - Study of cargo delays in the Port of Casablanca.



- 80 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
3.05   RAPC - External Debt situation.
3.06   Programme RAPC présenté en financement BIRD.
3.07   RAPC - Financial statements 1981, 1982, 1983.
3.08   RAPC - Organization and staffing, 1984.
3.09   RAPC - Budgets 1980, 1981, l982, 1983, 1984.
3.10   RAPC - 1983 traffics.
3.11   RAPC - 1983 activity report.
3.12   Law of 1963 creating the RAPC with subsequent reglementation.
4.     Documer-ts of the Port Directorates
4.01   Annual Reports, Ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia.
4.02   Drawings of the ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia.
4.03   Port Directorate - Casablanca and Mohammedia - Budget Accounts:
1981-1982-1983.
4.04   Port Directorate - Casablanca and Mohammedia - Financial data.
4.05   Direction des ports secondaires.  Financial data.
4.06   Performance indicators.  Port of Casablanca 1983.
4.07   Port Investment Program 1983-87, MPW, December 1984.
5.     General Government Documents
5.01   TRAINMAR (Training Maritime), Edition 1983.
5.02   Project TRAINMAR Maroc, Rapport Phase I, December 1984.
5.03   Contract between Moroccan Government and UNDP for Ports and
Maritime Transport Training, March 19, 1984.
5.04   Projet de guide des importations.
5.05   Cahier général de la taxation portuaire en vigueur, décembre 1984:
(a)  Tarifs consignation et manutention
(b) Cahier de taxes RAPC
(c) Tarifs manutention applicable à tous les ports du Maroc
à partir du ler novembre 1984
(d) Tarif de pilotage en vigueur en 1984 aux ports de
Casablanca et Jorf Lasfar
(e) Tarif SCRA applicable à compter du 8 avril 1983 et 4 mai 1984.
5.06   ODEP - Draft and final Law for its establishment.
5.07   ODEP - Draft Decrees specifying tasks.
5.08   Presentation of the new law to parliament for the creation of REP
made by Minister Kabbaj (REP appears in the final law as ODEP).
5.09   Office des Changes.  Régime des importations.  Juin 1982.
5.10   Ministère des Transports - Note sur la Strategie de Developpement
du Secteur des Transports au Maroc, Novembre 1984
6.     _reaisal and Appraisal Bank Mission Notes and other Background
Documents
6.01   Mission notes including definition of the role of the "Cellule
d'information des Transports Maritimes" established in the
Ministère de la Marine Marchande.
6.02   Preappraisal documents Vol. I, Vol. Il, Vol. III.
6.03   Training Program in the MPW proposal to the Port Project Appraisal
Mission.



MOROCCO
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT
Pod Directorate of Casablanca and Mohammedla
Organizatlon Chart at Appralsal Date
M'niisrv of
Public Wefks
|  ,ecx;rtmenl at 1                | ~~Cenilul SertVces                     L |   lgnnetd |°
-Budget 
Ai.counl?ng        Socretarit         c- Siudîes
_es.hnica Afftlîts
.  I                                               l                 - L>urnnTorîonI                     _
mOSfo(                                                                  $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr .cvs  ziatts sêejîcob
-Sn,p                   ;- r ,e - s          _                                                                                ltu  - E,ec ir.cN  - o,eiormefr S~
MoIvvumel1r%         -  ,Rruetul              _  <>""                                         L_, Ighrrolises            ^M,Ir.ler%anCe Yt
-   gflt,orof                                                                                                            ;iAecoorr ent &
M,air Fenar,ce sit
Otne< CIvil Werts
- Se>r.ces for
L   tool. _ron,
Avo.îa j,nk -   t



MOROCCO
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT
Office (or Port Operations (ODEP)
1. Orgonizaoton at the Headquarter
EL2
.Ur&,(, à, AJICJ fi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .USMI .Arnoe
tan
E 3 ~~~~.ie. j~            ~      voo
H3                                                '~~~~~~~~~~~~IcCO
t    A1   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaur.
~~ EOeWe'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  i'nrs,8x3tob«Ys  r ^  *@elEcweedits~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oeÈ -11



MOROCCO
CAALANCA PORT PROJECT
Omce for Port Operations (ODEP)
Il. Organization of Casablanca Port Unft
|cenrer fawCasual|m                         one 
L-~~~~~~Pf OircI
finuriciai a     Dopirtmnent              & Elugot à          Coirgo Haraing  | |Eouipmient a                     Ote       l l       Cnoe
Management              Accountbng             Porrans                 Bocurrnenl             à Stotoge             Maintenlnce                cne                  ecnai
_  Depcwtrn,ne         DepMonmenl         _  d rDrerations           Depottmient         _  Deçanment              De_apoment
loi Airs               cast Cing           -  Comrrefcia_ Pt-nn ing &                        Pronng                 Qu- v Craners          Maintenance            Mantenance
Refiterront        -Finance                  Attairs                fhageting           -  Steveonmng              Mcbl                - çieefGIys           -Cpoterats
F',wmKn             -Accoumfirg            - Sfudtes               _ Procuremlen'         _ 5totoge                 Equîprnen
-   ollning                                _  llalhc &               A                      Custodv of              Ceneal
Stlitstici             Purchosrs &            cCod                   Maintenance
rattirîg                                      CIvernîce              Sçecialî-ed
invoicîng              c Contrco           - Cfolni                  facilites
ILegaI Ajloi,s                                SonwoS                 Wciirxsho
Controt                àStaojes
LraîtCfl               SerflceW
Worto Eik-27115                          '



«13 V          i             l v ! R5U IL_MOROCCO                                 MORCCCO
,ÂE^éGe*  5 ,; 61,»   CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT                                              ,ABLANCA PORT PROJECT
Wy-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AOGAR
-h t IBnE A-   Mm oeds                                                                                         k l    AJN /) .ç.,1
--omnaa onArI lPmin) jS.iIA..r                                                                                                            .  -,\                       "nloa hnaiplplGml]517 f21\ s-~ d  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn  rr'ar  A'te S Ao  hhr,fvo h fomrn$-or~s
A   X    L    A    Al   I   i   .  Ih  l -  -         _                        z    /     e             ,. .`.1s   >t     /        k~~~~~~~ A  L 
CAi   AAhA        .i. RYpoi.,,                                      RASA' IAIOjAAI A h  A  U  R                                       . AN           ,   A
&--~~MA                           1 T- A9 N    1vt Ad-
-                                                                                                                              SI   ,f W-]|\_                   _
,,~~~~~~~~___  IiAC., /           h t.AtU  R SIS TA,.    AS Nh I  A                       AM AI UARI'     A IIA,,  AAAA        \                                  A.
r   i    7                            7~     ~     ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~'  i   _  k(  19



MOROCCO
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT
PORT LAYOUT                                                                                                                                                    t
Built-up Areo                                                            .
rn   Future Exleniion
_.--  Customi Fonca
4--Roilroads
Port Buildings                                     °
KILOMETERS        i
Royol Novy                      Harbor                                                                 _ 
_O- .fiere
Equipmnenf ~
Deportment  ,
~~~<2'di                        C~~~~~~~~uitons 
Fishig-S
morkel ~~              ~         ~                              ~-
I                                                                                                                                                   t .~ .. -    t.t..~   M    wt. a. #M 
Fishng  Ro-Ro                                                                                          W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl.O~~- n.- --   -
c                                                                                                                                                 - - n~~. rt. ~Harbo
121. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     --~      " , w.w                .'



