Doanment of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13594
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA PROJECT
(LOAN 2657-MOR)
OCTOBER 11, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average           US$1  =  Dh 10.4
Intervening Year Average         US$1  =  Dh 8.6
Completion Year Average          US$1  =  Dh 9.5
GLOSSARY
DP                        Ports Directorate
DPCM         :            Casablanca-Mohammedia Ports Directorate
ERR                       Economic Rate of Return
ICB                       International Competitive Bidding
LCB          :            Local Competitive Bidding
MOT          :            Ministry of Transports
MPW                       Ministry of Public Works
ODEP                      Office d'Exploitation des Ports
RAPC         :            Regie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca
SAR                       Staff Appraisal Report
TRAINMAR                  UNCTAD Training Program for the Maritime Sector
UNCTAD                    United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
VTS                       Vessel Traffic System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 11, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Morocco
Port of Casablanca and Mohammedia Project (Loan 2657-MORI
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Morocco - Port of Casablanca and
Mohammedia Project (Loan 2657-MOR)". The PCR was prepared by the Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office and Part II contains the Borrower's observations. The US$22 million
equivalent loan was approved in February 1986 and closed on June 30, 1993, two years behind
schedule.
The project was to improve port performance by rehabilitating infrastructure and supplying
new maintenance and cargo handling equipment, and to strengthen, through technical assistance,
ODEP, the major public enterprise in the port sector.
The PCR contains an adequate account of project preparation, implementation and results.
The project started slowly, mainly because of protracted procurement procedures. Further delays
were caused by adjustments to the project scope and by the need for supplementary investigations
during works execution. All physical works were satisfactorily completed and the two extensions of
the loan closing date were justified. Project components related to technical assistance, studies and
staff training were also satisfactorily completed. The Project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its
sustainability as likely, and its institutional impact as substantial.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K5pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................ - .u
Project Objectives ........................                                                       ii
Implementation Experience  ........................  ii
Results ........................                                                                 iii
Sustainability .......................                                                           iv
Findings and Lessons .......................                                                     iv
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                          ......... 1
A. PROJECT IENTITY   ........1..........................  I
B. BACKGROUND .                    ..................................... 1
Transport and the Economy ..................................  1
Port Facilities  .        .........................................  1
Port Organization  .           .......................................  2
Traffic ............................................... 3
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES  ................................  3
D. PROJECT DESC IP               ON   ................................  4
E. PROJECT DESIGN  AND ORGANIZATION  .................... 5
Engineering Aspects  .          .....................................  5
Cost Estimate  ..........................................  5
Project Organization  .         .....................................  5
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ...........................  6
Part A  ..............................................   6
Rehabilitation Works .................................. 6
Technical Assistance and Studies  ..........................  6
Training  .     .........................................  7
Additional Project Components  ...........................  7
Part B    ..............................................  8
Rehabilitation Works .           .................................  8
Equipment ........................................ 8
Technical Assistance and Studies  ..........................  8
Training .......................................... 8
Additional Project Components  ...........................  8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



Table of Content (Cont'd)                                                  Pages No.
G. MAJOR PROJECT RESULTS ..........................    9
Achievements of Project Objectives ...........................   9
Achievement of Physical Targets ........................... 9
Institution Building ..........................  9
Project Costs ..........................                                       10
Disbursements ..........................                                      10
Economic Reevaluation ...........................                             10
Financial Performance.. .  ........................ 10
Environmental Impact .......................... .                             12
H. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ............................ 12
I. BANK'S PERFORMANCE ...........................                             12
J. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ...........................13
K. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP ...........................    14
L. CONSULTANT SERVICES ...........................                             14
M. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA ................... 14
PART HI: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE. . . . 15
PART mH: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................. .. 27
Table 1:       Related IDA Credits and Bank Loans ........... .. 28
Table 2:       Project Timetable  ................... .. 29
Table 3:       Cumulative Loan Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Table 4:       MIS Disbursement Information .............. . 32
Table 5.1:     Project Costs - Part A      . ...............                     . 34
Table 5.2:     Project Costs - Part B      . ...............   . 35
Table 5.3:     Detailed Costs of Added Components . . . . . . . . . . .  .36
Table 5.4:     Total Project Costs: ; ;   ;  .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Table 6.1:   Project Financing - Part A.                                      38
Table 6.2:     Project Financing - Part B. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 39
Table 6.3:     Total Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 40
Table 7 :      Status of Covenants ..................                            . 41
Table 8 :      Economic Reevaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
Table 9.1:     ODEP Income Statements ................                           . 43
Table 9.2:  ODEP Balance Sheet .44
Table 9.3:     ODEP Source and Application of Funds .45
Table 10:  Project Studies .46
Table  1:      Mission Data .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
Table 12 :     Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
IBRD - 25842
IBRD - 18693



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA PROJECT
(Loan 2657-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Port of Casablanca and Mohammedia
Project in the Kingdom of Morocco. for which a loan 2657-MOR in the amount of US$ 22 million
equivalent was signed on May 9, 1986. The Borrower was the Office d'Exploitation des Ports (ODEP),
the Kingdom of Morocco being the Guarantor. The Loan became effective on December 30, 1986 and was
closed on June 30, 1993 after two extensions (original closing date: June 30, 1991). The loan has been
fully disbursed except for US$44,292 equivalent which have been cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the
Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department I, Middle East and North Africa Region. The
Part II was prepared by the Borrower in cooperation with the Direction des Ports de Casablanca et
Mohammedia (DPCM) under the Ministry of Public Works.
Preparation of this PCR started during the two last Bank supervision missions in January
and June 1993, and was based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and data provided
by the Moroccan authorities to the completion missions.






ii
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA PROJECT
(Loan 2657-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives
1.            Project objectives were to improve operational performance of the country's major port
by rehabilitating port infrastructure and supplying new maintenance workshop and cargo handling
equipment, to integrate port activities into the country's efforts to promote exports and to improve the
management and financial viability of the major public enterprise in the sector, the Office d'Exploitation
des Ports (ODEP), through technical assistance to ODEP and the Direction des Ports de Casablanca et
Mohammedia (DPCM).
Implementation Experience
2.            The project was divided according to the different administrative responsibilities in Part A
(ODEP) and Part B (DPCM). However, the Loan Agreement asked for a single project management
responsibility, which was to be assumed by ODEP as the Borrower, and complemented by an agreement
dated January 23, 1986, between the Guarantor and the Borrower, by which the Borrower agreed to carry
out Part B of the project for the account of the Guarantor. In this agreement ODEP and DPCM defined
the sharing of administrative and technical tasks for the Part B of the project: the technical management of
Part B remained with DPCM while administrative and financial management were to be carried out by
ODEP together with its own Part A. On the financial side, this agreement also stated that the expenses
borne by ODEP in implementing the Part B of the project, i.e. cost of the borrowing and local
complementary funding, will be deducted from the annual fee payable by the Borrower to the Guarantor
for the use of port assets in connection with its operations.
3.            While this arrangement seemed a clever solution to include both ODEP and DPCM in the
project design when taking advantage of the managerial flexibility of ODEP as an autonomous enterprise,
and actually lived up to the expectations to a large extent, some drawbacks appeared mainly towards the
end of the implementation period:
(a)    the two-steps system for procurement of Part B operations, technical decision-
making by DPCM and administrative/financial process by ODEP, brought in
some instances additional delays to the procurement and subsequent payment
process to the suppliers and contractors; and



iii
(b)    the resolution of contractual problems with suppliers on Part B contracts became
sometimes difficult to manage since the final decisional power remained with
ODEP while DPCM was handling the daily relationship in the field.
We may accordingly take into account these difficulties when thinking of bringing two
separate implementing agencies under the same loan umbrella.
4.            The loan closing date had to be extended twice due to procurement delays, mostly
incurred at the beginning of project implementation, and to changes in some components. Main changes
were prompted by severe operational issues experienced before project effectiveness and requiring
anticipated action under several components, which ODEP then decided to finance out of its own budget.
Other changes came, for instance, as a result of the Navy bringing in its own shiprepair facilities, which
upset the rationale behind the shipyard rehabilitation component, which was finally dropped.
Results
5.            The project has been very conducive in helping ODEP and DPCM to achieve major
improvements in port operations and management, through the implementation of the rehabilitation works,
the different studies, the technical assistance and the training provided. In particular, the active Bank
involvement in port reorganization and shaping out of ODEP throughout preparation is worth mentioning.
By providing advice and working closely with the Government in this field. the Bank helped the country
reach a good decision which translated into a significant improvement of the sector's efficiency.
6.            The rehabilitation works enabled the ports of Casablanca-Mohammedia to improve
significantly the handling and storage conditions of the goods shipped through the ports, thus reducing
losses and increasing the overall efficiency of transit operations. The strengthening and maintenance
works carried out on the breakwaters and the dredging of the port basins allowed the ports to keep on
operating without any disruption, which could have proved unlikely, should these works not have been
done on time.
7.            The project studies contributed to lay down some major elements of the port management
framework. The tariff study provided a detailed analysis of the port operating costs, along with a fully
new tariff structure and a working pattern to elaborate the subsequent updates. The ODEP organization
study set up a management and operating structure which was later implemented and led to the present
operating scheme. Both actions were conducive to increased operational and financial effectiveness of
ODEP as an autonomous enterprise.
8.            The technical assistance aimed at helping ODEP and DPCM to implement more efficient
practices in traffic management, including monitoring of ship calls, cargo handling techniques and the
relationships with customs in order to facilitate the traffic flows through the port system. A specific
operation has been added to the project scope during implementation to assist ODEP in designing and
implementing a computerized port management information system. These actions can clearly take credit
for part of the results achieved during the project period in terms of port productivity, as epitomized by
the outstanding increase in cargo handling productivity and the significant decrease in the dwelling time of
containers in the port area.
9.            Economic performance of the project is actually quite satisfactory, the quantified gains
coming from the operational improvements and from the adequate maintenance of port assets being



iv
assessed to yield a 29% economic rate of return on the costs incurred, compared to more than 30%
estimated at appraisal.
10.           ODEP's financial condition appears quite healthy. First, ODEP generated gross internal
funds of about DH 37 million in 1985 and DH 289 million in 1991, and a net cash flow of about DH 69
million in 1985 and DH 176 million in 1991, which covers in average more than 42% of its investment
program. and 3.6 times its debt service over the review period. Both ratios are above loan agreement
requirements fixed at about 40% and 1.5. Second, debt over equity and debt over debt and equity ratios
are kept within an acceptable limit of about 42% by end of 1991. Finally, ODEP's rate of return on net
fixed assets is about 11.5 % based on historical value and about 7% based on revalued assets close to the
loan agreement requirement of 7.5%.
Sustainability
11.           There is little doubt the project will continue to generate the economic benefits expected
throughout the economic life of its physical components and very likely beyond. Actually the basic
institutional studies carried out and the technical assistance provided laid down an operational framework
which already proved appropriate in bringing about significant physical and financial productivity
increases when implemented. The superstructure upgrading and rehabilitation works clearly contributed to
improved performance of the port, duly acknowledged by many of its customers, and the introduction of
an effective assets management system under the project offers a good guarantee of adequate maintenance
in the future. Furthermore, the project achievements will be complemented and further secured during the
implementation of the Port Sector Project now underway.
Findings and Lessons
12.           Due partly to the long period of time spent between project identification and loan
effectiveness (four and a half years), the structure of the project components had to undergo some
significant adaptation throughout the project implementation period, some components being deleted while
new ones were endorsed. Although the overall process clearly improved project effectiveness, it would
have been quite useful to have held a formal mid-term project review in order to update the project
schedule according to the actual circumstances in the field. This could have made the project supervision
and administrative monitoring easier to carry out, and would have given a clear picture of the project
renewed architecture, which is especially useful when the supervising staff changes during project
implementation.
13.           The project adaptation was also responsible for delay in project completion, because of
the changes and updating made necessary due to the long period of time between appraisal and
implementation. As a consequence, it entailed late procurement actions which in turn made time extension
necessary. This delayed procurement, together with a somewhat lengthy local administrative process,
resulted in disbursements lagging behind schedule alongwith project implementation, and picking up in the
last two years only. Under these circumstances, however, the project management by the Borrower was
always thoroughly carried out and can take credit for the successful achievement of the final project
schedule.
14.           The administrative arrangement implemented for managing the two parts of the project
under ODEP single monitoring, which worked fairly well during most of the project implementation,
proved a limited efficiency when it had to deal with compliance problems involving suppliers for Part B
managed by ODEP on behalf of DPCM. It may be questionable whether such a double-headed



V
arrangement (one technical, one administrative) is actually suitable since it seems prone to complicate
matters when any contractual difficulty occurs between a contractor/supplier and the executing agency.
15.           The main lesson of this operation is the obvious impact of the Borrower's commitment,
which existed from the outset, on the successful achievement of the program and on the quality and
sustainability of the project outcome. The outstanding local leadership and competence, and the perfect
meeting of minds between ODEP's general management and the overseeing Minister, further contributed
to enhance the quality of project management and ownership. Despite the project's evolving schedule
during implementation, and the related difficulties to be consequently overcome, the continuous
involvement of the Borrower, from the top management to the field units, made possible an optimal
allocation of the resources made available and finally ensured the best possible utilization of the loan's
proceeds.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA PROJECT
(Loan 2657-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
-      Project Name     Port of Casablanca and Mohammedia Project
-      Loan No          2657-MOR
-      Loan Amount    US$22 Million
-      RVP Unit         Middle East and North Africa Region
-      Country          Kingdom of Morocco
-      Sector       :  Transportation
-      Subsector        Ports
B.    Background
Transport and the Economy
1.            The Moroccan transport sector plays an important role in the development of the
economy. It provides direct support to industrial and agricultural development, plays a key role in
encouraging exports, and reducing the cost of imports, and supports the growth of tourism. The land
transport system is well-developed and includes some 28,000 km of paved roads out of a total network of
some 58,000 kim, and a railway network of about 1,800 km, of which about 970 km are electrified, and
240 km are double-track. There are 11 commercial ports, and about 20 airports handling scheduled
flights.
2.            The government agencies involved in the administration of the transport system are:
(a) the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), which is responsible for the construction and maintenance of
roads and ports infrastructure through its Road and Port Directorates; it also oversees cargo handling and
port operations which is the responsibility of the Office for Port Operations (ODEP); (b) the Ministry of
Transport (MOT), which regulates road transport, and supervises the railways, civil aviation, the
state-owned bus company, and the state-owned freight forwarding agency; (c) the Ministry of Fishing and
the Merchant Marine which supervises shipping; and (d) the Ministry of Interior as the supervising body
for local authorities, which are increasingly involved in the planning and maintenance of local road
networks.
Port Facilities
3.            Morocco's port infrastructure has been rapidly expanded to cope with increasing demands
on maritime transport and maritime activities. Until 1961 Morocco had only nine ports. It has now a
total of 20 ports along its coast line of 3,500 km. There are 11 commercial ports forming three main
groups: a northern group comprising Tangiers and Nador; a central group comprising Kenitra,



2
Mohammedia, Casablanca, and Jorf-Lasfar; and a southern group comprising Safi, Agadir, Tan-Tan,
Laayoune. and Dakchla. Agadir, Nador, and the main port, Casablanca, are well diversified. Some ports
are somewhat specialized: petroleum products are handled essentially at Moliammedia, phosphate products
at Jorf-Lasfar and Safi, and passenger traffic at Tangiers. Commercial ports also provide facilities for the
Navy. In addition, there are nine small ports devoted to fishing activities and pleasure navigation. These
ports are: Ras Kabdana, Al Hoceima, Jebha, M'Diq, Larache, El Jadida, Essaouira, Tarfaya, and Sidi
Ifni. Recently. four ports have been developed exclusively for pleasure navigation. These ports are:
Asilah, Restinga, Smir, and Sables d'Or.
4.             The 1 1 commercial ports have a total of 150 berths with an overall length of about 21,500
meters and an average length per berth of 150 meters. All ports use either mobile or fixed cranes (about
160) for vertical lifting of general cargo. Specialized equipment is available for solid bulk commodities,
such as minerals and cereals (nine gantry cranes). Miscellaneous cargo handling equipment comprise 548
tractors and forklifts, 70 loaders including portable belt loaders, 30 grain loaders, and 29 units of
container handling equipment.
Port Organization
5.             In December 1984, the Government carried out a reorganization in the port sector. The
prominent feature of the new organization was to transfer all commercial port activities from the civil
service to an autonomous enterprise. However, the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) retained overall
responsibility for port administration, planning, construction, maintenance, dredging as well as safety of
port operations. Since 1985, MPW discharges its responsibilities through the Ports Directorate (DP) in
Rabat and the Office for Port Operations (ODEP). DP is under the civil service. DP is in charge of port
planning and port policies. It also oversees port investment programs, coordinates non-commercial port
activities, and regulates port operations. ODEP is a financially autonomous enterprise with an industrial
and commercial character which took over cargo handling from the former Regie d'Acconage du Port de
Casablanca (RAPC). Its responsibilities encompass a wide spectrum of port operations, especially cargo
handling, and maintenance.
6.             The Ports Directorate is in charge of maintenance of breakwaters, dredging, and all
harbor master functions: control and safety of ship movements, berth allocation, coordination of users
toward maximizing port productivity, goods security, and leasing of port facilities to users. DP also plans
investments in new port infrastructure, mostly breakwaters and quays. DP carries its maintenance
responsibilities either with its own staff, or through contracting out, e.g. for dredging. DP discharges its
activities through local representatives of MPW at the port level. However, at Casablanca, the local
representative of MPW is a directorate, the Casablanca and Mohammedia Port Directorate (DPCM). This
special status is warranted by the size and importance of the port of Casablanca and the proximity of the
specialized oil port of Mohammedia.
7.             The Ports Directorate has four departments: operations, engineering, studies and
planning, and lighthouses and beacons. The Casablanca and Mohammedia Port Directorate has four
Departments: administrative services, engineering, Casablanca port operations, and Mohammedia port
operations. The local representatives of MPW and DPCM have the following responsibilities: security of
ships and goods movements, maintenance of the breakwaters and control towers, and dredging. They also
have a supervisory role over the other entities licensed to operate in the ports areas, in particular:
(a) ODEP; (b) the towage companies; (c) the pilots stations; (d) the grain silo operator, ONICL, which
leases areas for its facilities; (e) OCP, the phosphate exporting enterprise, operating berths or piers which



3
are leased on a long-term basis; and (f) the customs office which operates under the control of the
Ministry of Finance.
8.             ODEP's principal functions are:
(a)   to operate the following 11 commercial ports: Casablanca and Mohammedia,
Agadir, Dakhla. Jorf-Lasfar, Kenitra. Laayoune, Nador, Safi, Tangiers, and Tan-
Tan;
(b)   to handle cargo without exercising a monopoly: concessionary arrangements with
other entities including private operators can be signed;
(c)   to maintain all port infrastructure except for: breakwaters and dredging which is
done by the Ports Directorate, and other infrastructure operated by specialized
users such as the phosphates operator. OCP, and the grain silo operator, ONICL;
(d)   to collect revenues from cargo-handling tariffs as well as the port dues; and
(e)   to undertake, at Government's request, and for its account: (i) construction of new
port infrastructure with proven financial viability; (ii) maintenance and repair of
port facilities in the ports of Al Hoceima, El-Jadida, and Essaouira; and (iii)
maintenance and repair of lighthouses and beacons in ports operated by ODEP.
9.             ODEP is managed by a Board of Directors with a strong ministerial representation. The
Board, chaired bv the Minister of Public Works, on behalf of the Prime Minister, includes representatives
from nine other ministries, customs, DP, and DPCM. Users, such as ship operators, freight forwarders
and prominent shippers, are also represented by six directors having the right to vote. The Board meets
twice a year; between sessions, authority is delegated to the Management Committee, which meets once a
month, and to the General Manager of ODEP who is appointed by MPW. The Management Committee is
chaired by the Secretary General of MPW. It includes representatives of the Ministries of Finance,
Interior, Merchant Marine, Commerce and Industry.
Traffic
10.            Total Moroccan import-export port traffic was about 34 million tons in 1984, at the time
of appraisal. It reached over 39 million tons in 1992. Imports accounted for 21 million tons (54%) and
exports for 18 million tons (46%). In addition, domestic coastal traffic (mainly petroleum products)
reached 1.8 million tons, up by 31% from 1991, bringing the overall port throughput up to 40.8 million
tons. This total traffic volume includes about 50% of solid bulk cargo, 31 % of liquid bulk products, and
19% of general cargo among which 4% are containerized. Four major ports handle 83% of the total port
traffic. These are: Casablanca (39% of total traffic), Mohammedia (19%), Safi (12%), and Jorf-Lasfar
(13%).
C.      Proiect Obiectives
11.            The main objectives of the project were to improve operational performance of the
country's major port. to integrate port activities into the country's efforts to promote exports, and to
improve the management and financial viability of the major public enterprise in the sector. These
objectives were to be reached through the carrying out of a program to: (i) rehabilitate the Port of



4
Casablanca and improve its administration and operations; (ii) maintain the breakwater of the Port of
Mohammedia; and (iii) prepare a plan for the rational expansion of the infrastructure of the Guarantor's
ports and improvement of the management and operations of such ports.
D.      Proiect Description
12.            After negotiations, the project comprised the following components:
Part 1: ODEP
(a)   Rehabilitation and upgrading of existing infrastructure of the Port of Casablanca,
including paved areas. drainage, water and electrical systems, transit sheds, ship
repair facilities, workshops, and roll-on/roll-off ramps;
(b)   Carrying out of a program to upgrade the ports maintenance capability of the
Borrower, including the provision of workshop equipment for the Borrower's
workshops in Casablanca;
(c)   Carrying out of a review of the Borrower's organization, operations, administrative
and financial policies, and procedures in order to identify, evaluate, and implement
appropriate measures to improve the Borrower's organizational structure,
administrative and financial management, and technical operations;
(d)   Carrying out of a study of the structure of port tariffs in order to identify, evaluate
and implement appropriate measures to improve the structure of such tariffs; and
(e)   Provision of fellowships and on-the-job training for the Borrower's engineering and
other staff, and development and application of a suitable training system to
improve the skills of the Borrower's port staff and labor force.
Part B: DPCM
(a)   Dredging of the Port of Casablanca to increase the available depth in front of deep
water berths and the port basin by about one meter;
(b)   Rehabilitation of the breakwater and of the control tower of the Port of
Casablanca, and provision of communications equipment required for said control
tower;
(c)   Carrying out of a program to maintain the breakwater of the Port of Mohammedia,
including the provision of a heavy-lifting crane, concrete mixer, and transport
equipment required thereof;
(d)   Carrying out of a review of procedures for the transit of goods through the
Guarantor's ports and general port operations in order to identify, evaluate, and
recommend appropriate measures to streamline such procedures and improve
management of general port operations; and



5
(e)   Provision of fellowships and on-the-job training for engineering and other staff of
the Guarantor responsible for port operations.
The project was expected to start formally on July 1986, and to be completed by
December 31, 1991.
E.     Proiect Design and Organization
Engineering Aspects
13.           The scope and type of the proposed works were based on investigations and studies
carried out by DPCM's engineers and revised and updated by the preappraisal and appraisal missions.
Tender documents had been prepared by DPCM's engineers, and reviewed by the Bank to make them
acceptable for ICB. Engineering consultants financed under the project prepared final engineering, and
adapted the tender documents as required.
Cost Estimate
14.           The total cost of the project (Parts A and B) was estimated at US$41 million equivalent
during appraisal, of which about US$22 million (54%) was the foreign exchange component. Part A was
estimated to cost US$26 million equivalent of which some US$13 million in foreign currency, and Part B
was estimated to cost US$15 million equivalent of which about US$9 million in foreign currency (Table
5.4: Total Project Costs). The actual final level and distribution of costs between the project components
appear somewhat different from the SAR estimates, reflecting the steps taken in the course of the
implementation to adapt the project to the evolving needs of the Borrower, as we will see hereafter in
Chapter F.
Proiect Organization
15.           The project was divided according to the different administrative responsibilities in Part A
(ODEP) and Part B (DPCM). However, the Loan Agreement asked for a single project management
responsibility, which was eventually assumed by ODEP as the Borrower, and complemented by a Project
Implementation Agreement dated January 23, 1986, between the Guarantor and the Borrower, by which
the Borrower agreed to carry out Part B of the project for the account of the Guarantor. In this agreement
ODEP and DPCM defined the sharing of administrative and technical tasks for the Part B of the project:
the technical management of Part B remained with DPCM while administrative and financial management
were to be carried out by ODEP together with its own Part A. On the financial side, this agreement also
stated that the expenses borne by ODEP in implementing the Part B of the project, i.e. cost of the
borrowing and local complementary funding, will be deducted from the annual fee payable by the
Borrower to the Guarantor for the use of port assets in connection with its operations. This arrangement
was designed to ensure the coordination of tasks between the two entities operating in the same port, when
taking advantage of the managerial flexibility of ODEP as an autonomous enterprise.
16.           ODEP agreed that contracts under the project would be awarded on the basis of ICB in
accordance with Bank Guidelines, except for minor ancillary works and goods for sewer, electricity,
control tower, and shed repairs and replacements which would be awarded on the basis of LCB. These
arrangements have been consistently respected throughout the project implementation.



6
17.            Loan covenants covered the usual requirements related to orderly project execution, as
well as the requirements to submit to the Bank annual audit reports on project accounts nine months after
the end of each fiscal year. These covenants were to a large extent satisfactorily complied with (Table 7:
Status of Covenants).
F.      Proiect Implementation
18.            The loan became effective on December 30, 1986, the original implementation timetable
providing for the loan to be closed on June 30, 1991 and for the project itself to be completed by
December 31, 1991. As a consequence of a somewhat slow procurement process in the early stages of the
project, of the technical adjustments brought to the project scope during implementation , and of the
supplementary investigation required by the rehabilitation component, the loan closing date had to be
extended twice and was finally set on June 30, 1993 (Table 2: Project Timetable).
Part A
Rehabilitation Works
19.            The rehabilitation of existing port infrastructure in Casablanca, which included: paved
areas: drainage, water and electrical systems; transit sheds; and ro-ro ramps were fully carried out
according to the project's original design. Due to the actual urgency of this task, ODEP in fact undertook
the paving works even before the loan became effective and finally financed it on its own resources,
therefore making possible to add some complementary operations at a later stage (paras.27/29).
20.            The modernization of ODEP workshops was finally abandoned due to the change in
ODEP's maintenance policy. ODEP actually shifted from the previous policy of full in-house maintenance
to a scheme in which most of the maintenance is contracted out to private service providers. This appears
in fact fullv in line with the policy now advocated by the Bank as far as port equipment maintenance is
concerned, and the results of it in this very case demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of this way of doing.
21.            The works pertaining to the rehabilitation of the ship repair facilities were finally
cancelled after a first technical design study has been carried out, due to the fact that the potential market
conditions were significantly altered in the meantime when the Navy brought in the port of Casablanca a
floating dock to take care of its own ships. The economic rationale of the original project, clearly
established at the outset, was then threatened, all the more than the cost estimate of the rehabilitation
program exceeded by far the first cost assumptions. A new market survey was therefore judged necessary
before launching any significant upgrading program, and the corresponding study was put to tender and
awarded in the spring of 1993. However, since the study timetable did not comply any longer with the
loan time frame, ODEP decided to finance it from its own resources.
Technical Assistance and Studies
22.            Tender documents were prepared with the assistance of foreign and Moroccan
consultants. Specific technical assistance programs were carried out in the fields of port operations and
maintenance, including containers handling and storage, according to the project description. Specific
interest was paid to reducing the dwelling time of goods on the port area, in relation with discussions with
Customs in order to reach an agreement on streamlined clearances procedures. Some significant
improvements were actually achieved, but the negotiations with Customs are still a long way to go before
coming close to developed countries standards in terms of smoothness and efficiency. As a matter of fact,



7
this very issue is still being addressed in the Port Sector Project now underway, which provided for
specific actions in trade facilitation and improvement of administrative procedures. Generally speaking,
the technical assistance worked in close cooperation with ODEP executives and found a very efficient
understanding with its Moroccan counterparts.
23.           The development of the SIPOR port computerized information system has been
undertaken by ODEP with the assistance of a Moroccan consultant. The works began in December 1987
and the commissioning of the different operating softwares took place between January and September
1993.
24.           The study on the reorganization of ODEP's administration and of the financial
management procedures has been carried out between October 1985 and May 1988. It laid out the
principles and organization schemes ODEP followed in implementing its revised operational and
management pattern, which is in force since then.
25.           The study of the new ODEP tariff structure has been carried out between February 1984
and December 1988. thus exceeding by far the original 11-months time frame. This has been the
consequence of numerous additional analysis carried out by ODEP and the Consultants at a time when
ODEP has just been established and was willing to draw a comprehensive picture of its tariff framework
in order to set up a clearly cost-related tariff policy. The study actually met its objectives and provided
ODEP with an in-depth analysis of costs and revenue centers, together with a computerized tool to
translate the financial and commercial policy targets into the corresponding tariff schedule. This formed
the basis of the new tariff policy now implemented by ODEP since 1988.
Training
26.           The training of ODEP's staff has been carried out under the project partly through local
implementation of the UNCTAD TRAINMAR program, partly through periods abroad for engineers and
managers, and partly through on-the-job training for skilled and semi-skilled labor carried out by the
technical assistance experts.
Additional Project Components
27.           A berth in Casablanca fishing port was found in need of urgent repair and has been
rehabilitated between December 1987 and September 1988 using some of the loan proceeds made available
due to ODEP own financing of the paving of operating areas.
28.           During the preparatory works undertaken to define the following Port Sector Project now
underway, the need to set up a dedicated access to the new planned container terminal was acknowledged.
It was therefore agreed to use some of loan proceeds to finance the building of an access bridge at the
location of the present Gate 4 of the Casablanca Port. Later on, since some more funds were made
available when the shipyard rehabilitation works were cancelled, it was agreed to use them for financing
the complementary access roads to the bridge. These works were carried out between January 1991 and
September 1993.
29.           Finally, it was agreed to use the last available funds to help finance the fitting out of the
Casablanca Port Training Center and the related training equipment. This operation complemented in fact
quite well the training efforts already financed under the project (para.26).



8
Part B
Rehabilitation Works
30.           The dredging of the Casablanca port basins to achieve originally available depth, and the
removal of ship wrecks, have been carried out between February 1989 and May 1990 according to the
project design.
31.            The control tower of the port of Casablanca has been rehabilitated and fitted out between
November 1989 and December 1991. Two successive contracts were required since the first selected
contractor went bankrupted during the works and left them uncompleted.
Equipment
32.           The handling equipment required for the maintenance of the Mohammedia breakwater,
including cranes and transport means for concrete blocks, has been procured in separate packages between
1987 and 1991. Among the supplies, two tractors finally had to be rejected because they repeatedly failed
to meet the technical requirements asked for in the tender documents. Since this final decision occurred
late during the last project year, it has not been possible to initiate a complementary purchase to replace
them.
33.            The Casablanca control tower has been equipped through the implementation of a vessel
traffic system (VTS) enabling the harbor master's office to manage the port maritime traffic with an
increased safety. The corresponding phone network and related equipment has been supplied
simultaneously.
Technical Assistance and Studies
34.            An expert in general cargo and containers operations worked in Casablanca from
September 1986 to August 1988 and provided a technical assistance in the field of ship calls management,
handling operations, and administrative streamlining. Specific technical assistance was also provided by a
foreign port to follow-up on the implementation of the new VTS system in the Casablanca control tower.
35.            Studies on the strengthening of the quaywall of Casablanca Moulay Youssef breakwater
were carried out and tender documents prepared. The corresponding works are now being carried out
with financing provided under the ongoing Port Sector Project.
36.         The study of the strengthening of the Moulay Youssef breakwater itself has been carried out
between September 1992 and September 1993. Stability tests of the proposed new breakwater profile in a
swell race were carried out in a Moroccan laboratory to optimize the technical solution. The
strengthening works themselves are possibly to be financed under the ongoing Port Sector Project.
Training
37.         Engineers and executives from the DPCM followed the training actions referred to in
para.26 above, which were managed by ODEP for both entities' staff.
Additional Project Components



9
38.         The Operations Division of the DPCM was computerized through the supply of three
personal computers and benefitted from the related technical assistance and training from the supplier.
39.         Due to the maintenance requirements of the Mohammedia breakwater, it was agreed to
finance under the project a first maintenance contract for the making and laying of concrete blocks to
strengthen the breakwater's armor.
G.   Maior Proiect Results
Achievement of Proiect Objectives
40.         The project has been very conducive in helping ODEP and DPCM to achieve major
improvements in port operations and management, through the implementation of the rehabilitation works,
the different studies, the technical assistance and the training provided. The results achieved in terms of
increased productivity contributed to reduce the unit costs of the port transit operations, while the new
organizational and financial framework allowed the port managers to answer in a more relevant way the
users' needs without jeopardizing the port's financial balance. This in turn helped to integrate the port
activities into the country's efforts to promote exports.
Achievement of Physical Targets
41.         The rehabilitation works were all completed according to the project design, and some
additional works were made possible due to the rescheduling of some operations. These works enabled
the ports of Casablanca-Mohammedia to improve significantly the handling and storage conditions of the
goods shipped through the ports, thus reducing losses and increasing the overall efficiency of transit
operations. The strengthening and maintenance works carried out on the breakwaters and the dredging of
the port basins allowed the ports to keep on operating without any disruption, which could have proved
unlikely, should these works not have been done on time. All the pieces of equipment were delivered
according to the project schedule, except two tractors for the DPCM which had to be returned to the
supplier for insufficient performance.
Institution Building
42.         The project studies contributed to lay down some major elements of the port management
framework. The tariff study provided a detailed analysis of the port operating costs, along with a fully
new tariff structure and a working pattern to elaborate the subsequent updates. The ODEP organization
study set up a management and operating structure which was later implemented and led to the present
operating scheme. Both actions took part in the increase of operational and financial effectiveness of
ODEP as an autonomous enterprise.
43.         The technical assistance aimed at helping ODEP and DPCM to implement more efficient
operating practices in traffic management, including monitoring of ship calls, cargo handling techniques
and the relationships with customs in order to facilitate the traffic flows through the port system. A
specific operation has been added to the project scope during implementation to assist ODEP in designing
and implementing a computerized port management information system. These actions can clearly take
credit for part of the results achieved during the project period in terms of port productivity, as epitomized
by the outstanding increase in cargo handling productivity--25% on average over the period--and the
significant decrease in the dwelling time of containers in the port area--minus 40% on average.



10
Project Costs
44.         The final cost of the project exceeds by 18% the original SAR estimate, including
contingencies (US$48.6 million versus US$41 million). The difference is unequally distributed between
the Parts A and B, the Part A reaching US$36.6 million (41 % above SAR), whereas the Part B reaches
only US$12 million (21 % below SAR). This is in fact the translation of the institutional trend noticed
over the period, making ODEP a prominent actor of the port development, while the DPCM becomes
more confined in the infrastructure maintenance. It must be noted, however, that in terms of allocation of
the loan proceeds. the Part B exceeded its initial allocation due to the high proportion of expenses in
foreign currency, while the operations financed under the Part A showed a much higher proportion of
expenses in local currency than originally foreseen. The overall cost overrun is in fact due to the
operations carried out by ODEP with its own financing before the loan effectiveness, which made possible
the addition of complementary components to the project schedule (Tables 5.1 to 5.4).
Disbursements
45.         Table 3 compares actual with projected disbursements. The main delay in disbursement is
attributable to a slow start up during the first two years. Disbursement has been picking up in 1992 and
1993, but finally fell short of US$44,292 due to the late last procurement operations, which amounts to
0.2% of the total loan. This amount was cancelled on November 24, 1993 (Tables 3 and 4).
Economic Reevaluation
46.         The economic analysis carried out at appraisal was based on the assumption that the
rehabilitation works will improve operating conditions in the Port of Casablanca, reducing damage to
cargo and mobile handling equipment as a result of repair and upgrading of surfaces. Working conditions
and traffic safety were to improve as the flow of cargo would be directed by adequate traffic marking and
signalling, while loss of cargo and damage to equipment caused by flooding during the rainy season would
be avoided with the new drainage system. Improvements of the water supply network were to help
eliminate costly wastes and abuses. Adequate dredging of the port would eliminate the need to top-off the
largest calling ships and save the corresponding additional costs. The benefits of regular maintenance of
the breakwaters would save the cost of reconstructing them after major damages.
47.         The project actually met its objectives since the port witnessed an increase of 25% in
average in operations productivity over the period, a significant part of this result being linked to the
project implementation. The project benefits can be easily assessed for the water supply component, the
water consumption having been divided more than three times over the period. As far as the cargo
damage is concerned, we can rely on the ODEP reports on yearly damage and losses statistics, which
shows that the damage and loss rate has been falling steadily since 1988, down to a very low 0.02% of
total cargo value in 1992. We can therefore assume that the assumptions made at appraisal about a
possible decrease of 2% of losses and pilferage on the general cargo only have been confirmed. The
breakwater maintenance will also avoid the cost of heavy reconstruction estimated according to the
occurrence probability stated in the SAR. The project would have therefore yielded a global rate of return
of 29%, to be compared to more than 30% estimated at appraisal (Table 8).
Financial Performance
48.         ODEP had been regularly audited since its creation in 1985. The first two audits were
limited to identifying issues in the accounting systems and procedures. ODEP's management made up the



11
financial and management accounts on the basis of auditors' recommendations and had solved
approximately all issues identified by end of year 1993. However, despite the ODEP's effort in improving
its overall management and accounting procedures, the Auditors have a qualified opinion which is likely to
be cleared in 1994. According to auditor's reports minor discrepancies persist in the accounting system,
mainly those related to risk allowances linked to previous RACP's accounting, confirmation of debt and
arrears from lenders and suppliers, and public domain fees evaluation.
49.         Taking into account auditor's remarks the summarized financial statements show that: (i)
ODEP's operation profitability and financial equilibrium are satisfactory; and (ii) ODEP meets its financial
covenants stated in loan agreement as measured by working and operating ratios, debt service coverage
ratio and rate of return ratio. ODEP's consolidated financial statements for the period of 1985-1991 are
presented in Tables 9.1, 9.2, and 9.3.
50.           Operating revenues consist of about 62% on port dues on goods and ships and of about
26% on wharfage and use of infrastructure. The two components increased respectively from 409 million
DH in 1985 to 618 million DH in 1990 corresponding to an average of 7% increase per year and from
101 million DH to 266 million DH or 25% increase per year. During the period under review the overall
revenues are 20% higher than appraisal estimates and increased by 12% per year reflecting a combination
of tariff increases implemented in 1987 and 1991, and port traffic increases of about 2% per year. The
operating expenses are 44% higher than appraisal estimates. Salaries, maintenance, and depreciations
represent ODEP's major operating expenses. They increased from DH529 million in 1985 to DH926
million in 1991 or 10% per year, compared to revenues they represents about 90% of the total revenues.
Therefore, the net operating income is lower than forecasted but still at a satisfactory level.
51.           During fiscal years 1985 and 1991, ODEP has generated an added value from its
operations of about 62% in 1985 and 65% in 1991 of its total revenues, and a net operating income of
about 12% and 9% of total revenues respectively compared to appraisal estimates of 10% in 1985 and
25% in 1991. The financial statements show that ODEP has had better control over its working and
operating expenses which increased only by 10% compared to 12% increases in revenues. Accordingly,
ODEP's performance during the period was satisfactory but less efficient than expected, working and
operating ratio were about 64% and 91 % respectively, compared to projected ratios of 56% and 75%. Its
net operating income steadily improved from DH61 million in 1985 to DH90 million in 1991 with the
exception of 1989 that shows a drop in tendency (DH76 million compared to 81 in 1988) where
adjustment of RAPC and ODEP accounts was made.
52.           Regarding financial performance ODEP represents a healthy enterprise. First, ODEP
generates a gross internal funds of about DH37 million in 1985 and DH289 million in 1991, and a net
cash flow of about DH69 million in 1985 and DH176 million in 1991, which covers in average more than
42% of its investment program, and 3.6 times its debt service over the review period. Both ratios are
above loan agreement requirements fixed at about 40% and 1.5. Second, debt over equity and debt over
debt and equity ratios are kept within an acceptable limit of about 42% by end of 1991. Finally, ODEP's
rate of return on net fixed assets is about 11.5% based on historical value and about 7% based on revalued
assets close to the loan agreement requirement of 7.5%.
53.           The above ODEP's financial results take into account an annual payment to the
Government of a concession fee which amounted to DH 40 Million in 1987 and DH 55 Million in 1993.
This concession fee is defined based on the reevalued value of Government-owned assets (breakwaters),
maintenance, depreciation of these assets, and maintenance dredging costs of the ports' accesses. All



12
other port assets (infrastructure and equipment) have been transferred to ODEP, which has been
maintaining and renewing them with its own resources since 1987.
54.           In conclusion, the actual and forecasted financial performance of ODEP are satisfactory.
However, watchful monitoring will be carried out during the ongoing Port Sector Project to ensure that
ODEP's overall financial performance remains sound and that the minor problems raised by its Auditors
are solved.
Environmental Impact
55.            The project had no adverse environmental impact resulting from the rehabilitation works
carried out. Furthermore, the improvement of the drainage system will have contributed to a better
monitoring of the surface pollution in the port area.
H.     Proiect Sustainability
56.            There is little doubt the project will continue to generate the economic benefits expected
throughout the economic life of its physical components and very likely beyond. Actually the basic
institutional studies carried out and the technical assistance provided laid down an operational framework
which already proved appropriate in bringing about significant physical and financial productivity
increases when implemented. The superstructure upgrading and rehabilitation works clearly contributed to
the strengthening of the port performance, as acknowledged by many of the port customers, and the
implementation during the project of an effective assets maintenance policy ensures this progress will be
fostered in the future. Furthermore, the project achievements will be complemented and further secured
during the implementation of the Port Sector Project now underway. This linkage of activities over time
ensures the project initiatives will be carried forward and their beneficial effects consequently sustained.
1.     Bank's Performance
57.            The Bank's contribution to the project was substantial. Missions and staff inputs are
summarized in Tables 11 (Missions) and 12 (Staff Inputs). Bank staff worked in close cooperation with
the Borrower's teams to initially define the project size and contents, and to adapt the original version to
the financial possibilities realistically assessed by the Borrower. Furthermore, it appears worth noting the
active Bank involvement, during the project preparation period, in the administrative reorganization of the
port sector and the creation of ODEP. By providing advice and working closely with the Government in
this field, the Bank helped the country reach a good decision which translated into a significant
improvement of the sector's efficiency. In the course of implementation, the Bank agreed to amend the
project scope by withdrawing or adding components reflecting new technical and commercial evolution of
the sector and provided advice on the best possible use of the loans proceeds made available by these
changes. To ensure continuous progress over time, the Bank agreed to undertake the appraisal of the now
ongoing Port Sector Project to expand and complement this first operation in the port sector, and carried it
out in parallel with the supervision of the Casablanca/Mohammedia Port Project. As a consequence, the
Port Sector Project loans became effective a few months ahead of the expected closing date of the first
project, therefore ensuring a smooth continuation of the modernization efforts.
58.            Due partly to the long period of time spent between project identification and loan
effectiveness (four and a half years), the structure of the project components had to undergo some
significant adaptation throughout the project implementation period, some components being deleted while
new ones were endorsed. The project was identified in May 1982 and preappraised in March 1983 as the



13
first Bank Port Project in Morocco. As such, it was first designed to address altogether institutional
management, existing operational shortcomings and physical development issues. But this ambitious
project scope asked for a corresponding high level of financial involvement from the national Moroccan
budget, at a time when austerity budgetary measures were to be implemented by the Government. As a
result, lengthy discussions took place both within the Bank and between the Bank and the Government in
order to define the adequate project scope given the financial constraints the Government had to cope
with. This explains why the appraisal mission was deferred three times and only took place 20 months
after the preappraisal, when agreement was finally reached on the postponement of the physical
development component of the project--the building of the Casablanca container terminal--which was later
included in the ongoing Port Sector Project.
59.           A legal issue cropped up during the run-up to loan negotiations about the possibility of
making two loans, one to the Government and one to ODEP. The Bank eventually preferred a single
loan, leaving the Government decide who should be the Borrower. After having at first stated that the
Government would be the single Borrower, the Moroccan delegation asked during negotiations the loan to
be made to ODEP, the Government being the Guarantor. Finally, loan effectiveness took place seven
months only after loan signature because of delays in Morocco in getting the required legal documentation
ready.
60.           Although the overall adaptation process during implementation clearly improved the
project effectiveness, it would have been quite useful to propose to hold a formal project review in order
to update the project schedule according to the actual circumstances in the field. This could have made
the project supervision and administrative monitoring easier to carry out, and would have given a clear
picture of the project renewed architecture, which is especially useful when the supervising staff changes
during project implementation. Such changes did actually occur during the last two years of the project,
but without significant detrimental effect on the project monitoring by the Bank.
J.     Borrower's Performance
61.           The high level of involvement of the Borrower at every step of the project cycle, together
with the true commitment of the implementation team towards the project's success, proved quite
conducive to meet the project's initial objectives. The Borrower set up a specific unit to manage the
project and follow-up the administrative relationships with the Bank, and appointed a Project Coordinator
who carried out his task quite efficiently. Quarterly progress reports improved steadily throughout project
implementation, reaching finally a very satisfactory standing, and were always presented on time.
62.           The project adaptation was responsible for delay in project completion, for it entailed late
procurement actions which in turn made time extension necessary. This delayed procurement, together
with a somewhat lengthy local administrative process, resulted in disbursements lagging behind schedule
along project implementation, and picking up in the last two years only. Under these circumstances,
however, the project management by the Borrower was always thoroughly carried out and can take credit
for the successful achievement of the final project schedule.
63.           The administrative arrangement implemented for managing the two parts of the project
under ODEP single monitoring, which worked fairly well during most of the project implementation,
proved a limited efficiency when it had to deal with compliance problems involving suppliers for the Part
B managed by ODEP on behalf of the DPCM. It may be questionable whether such a double-headed
arrangement (one technical, one administrative) is actually suitable since it seems prone to complicate
matters when any contractual difficulty occurs between a contractor/supplier and the executing agency.



14
64.           The main lesson of this operation is the obvious impact of the Borrower's commitment,
which existed from the outset, on the successful achievement of the program and on the quality and
sustainability of the project outcome. The outstanding local leadership and competence, and the perfect
meeting of minds between ODEP's general management and the overseeing Minister, further contributed
to enhance the quality of project management and ownership. Despite the project's evolving schedule
during implementation, and the related difficulties to be consequently overcome, the continuous
involvement of the Borrower, from the top management to the field units, made possible an optimal
allocation of the resources made available and finally ensured the best possible utilization of the loan's
proceeds.
K.    Project Relationship
65.           Relations between the Bank and the Moroccan authorities were extremely friendly and
effective. The Borrower made determined efforts to observe the Bank procurement requirements and to
seek Bank's advice on technical issues whenever they cropped up. In every occasion the Bank sought to
respond to the Borrower's request as promptly and thoroughly as possible.
L.     Consultant Services
66.           The quality of work provided by all consultants was generally good and on time, with
limited exceptions which did not jeopardize the project effectiveness. This include design consultants,
management consultants, and technical assistance experts. The management studies, tariffs and
organization, proved quite valuable in laying out the principles that will have governed ODEP's
management orientation during the enterprise's modernization phase.
M.    Proiect Documentation and Data
67.           The SAR provided a useful framework for the Borrower and the supervision missions,
and the Loan Agreement was quite adequate and appropriate for achieving project objectives in the key
organizational and financial areas. The project files kept in ECA/MENA Information Center are adequate
and complete. However, as mentioned earlier, an update report on the changes brought to the original
project scope might have been a useful complement to the existing documentation.
68.           Data for preparation of the PCR were generally available, and ODEP provided a
comprehensive Completion Report to be found under the Part II of the present document.



15
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORTS OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA PROJECT
(Loan 2657-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
SUMMARY
I.  EVALUATION OF BANK ACTIONS DURING PROJECT PREPARATION
AND IMPLEMENTATION, NOTABLY THOSE CONCERNING LESSONS FOR
FUTURE APPLICATION
1.1   Bank actions prior to the signing date of the loan agreement:
1. 1. 1. Loan effectiveness date
1.1.2. Assessment of the conditions of loan negotiations set by the Bank
1. 1.3. Assessment of negotiations
1.2   Bank actions during project implementation
1.2.2. Assessment of disbursement methods
1.2.3. Assessment of a closing date for the completion of the Project
II.   EVALUATION OF ODEP'S ACTIONS DURING THE PROJECT
PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
2.1   Establishment of a project monitoring unit
2.2   Establishment of guidelines for loan administration
2.3   ODEP's participation in various activities of the National Commission for the
Facilitation of International Trade Procedures
2.4   Actions taken by ODEP to carry out the main project components financed
under the loan:
2.4.1 Studies



16
Tariffs
Organization
Port Computerized Information System (SIPOR)
2.4.2 Assistance
in workshop management and equipment maintenance, and
in financial management, internal auditing, and budgetary
control
2.4.3 Training
-     TRAINMAR Project
-     Overseas Training
2.4.4. Civil Works
-     Network rehabilitation
-     Construction of two ro-ro ramps
-     Complete renovation and modernization of warehouses
-     Construction of an access bridge to the port
III.   ASSESSMENT OF ODEP-WORLD BANK RELATIONS DURING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   Assessment of Bank missions
3.2   Assessment of procurement procedures



17
ASSESSMENT OF ALL BANK ACTIONS DURING PROJECT PREPARATION
AND IMPLEMENTATION, NOTABLY THOSE CONCERNING LESSONS FOR
FUTURE APPLICATION.
1.1   Bank actions prior to the signing date of the loan agreement:
1.1.1 Loan effectiveness date
The loan became effective two years after the first project appraisal
mission (December 1984). Meanwhile, ODEP launched several
components originally financed by this loan: ODEP's organization and
tariff studies.
These components' expenditures were fully financed by ODEP,
including the part eligible for financing under the loan, which placed a
burden on ODEP's cash flow. This situation should be avoided in the
future mainly by reducing the delay between the different steps up to
loan effectiveness.
1.1.2  Assessment of the conditions for loan negotiation set by the Bank
Among the conditions for loan negotiation for which considerable time
was spent during negotiations was the concession fee that ODEP would
be required to pay the State in exchange for using the port assets.
In fact, this fee excluded deductions for the works executed by ODEP
at the State's request.
This calculation should be made using a coefficient that takes into
account the volume of traffic reported in relation to the space efficiently
used.
1. 1.3 Assessment of negotiations
Negotiations took place in a pleasant, cooperative atmosphere.
1.2   Bank actions during the project implementation.
1.2.1  Assessment of disbursement modalities
Based on finance charges incurred as a result of the opening of
documentary credits (CREDOC), it is advisable for the Bank to accept
the special commitment request without confirmation of the opening by
the borrower's bank. The supplier's bank can confirm the CREDOC
on the basis of IBRD's commitment to pay.



18
1.2.2 Assessment of the implementation schedule
Since this project was the first for which ODEP requested Bank
financing, the Bank could have recommended a feasibility study of the
Casablanca and Mohammedia project with a view to confirming the list
of subprojects to be completed. This step would have prevented the
delay experienced.
11. EVALUATION OF ODEP'S ACTIONS DURING PROJECT PREPARATION
AND IMPLEMENTATION.
2.1   Establishment of a project monitoring unit
A unit was set up to monitor the various phases of the Casablanca and
Mohammedia project. Its tasks were to:
-     ensure that all procurement actions, such as tendering and bid
evaluation, were in conformance with the Bank's guidelines, and
draft progress and completion reports for projects financed by IBRD.
2.2   Establishment of guidelines for loan administration.
To ensure the satisfactory management of all actions involved in the carrying
out the project, some accounting guidelines were set up to allow for immediate
retrieval of information on commitments for parts A and B of the project.
2.3   ODEP's participation in the various activities of the National Commission for
Facilitation of International Trade Procedures (FITP).
The National Commission for FITP was organized in 1985. It brings together
entities engaged in international trade, including ODEP. ODEP's role within
this Commission focusses on the review of port procedures and
recommendations to simplify them.
Due to the actions taken by ODEP to simplify port procedures, the dwelling
time of the containers in the port was reduced from 21.5 days in 1988 to 15.5
days in 1991. A seminar on simplification of procedures for international
trade was organized in April 1992 by ODEP for the various foreign and local
operators.
2.4   Actions conducted by ODEP following the completion of the main projects
financed by the loan:



19
5.4. 1 Studies
a) Tariffs
The completion of this study allowed:
- a 5% tariff adjustment on all services in 1987;
- the revision of port duties on ships in 1990 (structural change, level
increase by 39%, foreign currency requirement for foreign
shipowners);
- the decrease in rates and ad-valorem tax for cargo handling in 1992;
and
- an improvement in port duty tariffication in 1992: all invoice
statements calculated in ECUs for all shipowners (both Moroccan and
foreign), the establishment of a minimum duty to be levied for the
prevailing port traffic, and tariff adjustments on all services (5%).
Following this study, some proposals were made:
- a per unit tariff on handling and storing containers and TIR trucks,
and removal of the ad-valorem tax;
- restructuring of port duties on ships (cubic meter instead of the ship's
capacity, and introduction of duties according to type of ship); and
- progressive elimination of the ad-valorem tax for other traffic, as this
kind of user tax is difficult to justify.
Besides its accomplishments, this tariff study proved to be a rewarding
experience for ODEP, as well as for its new organization, i.e., the
establishment of Autonomous Production Centers (CPAs). From the
outset, the simulation model of the tariff study provided a useful tool
for distributing the costs of the various services and apportioning costs
and revenues during the implementation period.
b) Organization
The study launched in 1985 was part of ODEP's plans to present a
better image of the ports to its partners.
The restructuring of ODEP was accomplished jointly with an
international consulting firm and the active participation of
the entire staff. This reorganization led to the setup of two tiers



20
management.
- a general management responsible for defining the strategic
framework; and
- entities responsible for action monitoring and for meeting operational
objectives (CPAs).
To ensure the survival of its new organization, ODEP placed
considerable importance on the development of its human resources by:
- adopting new personnel management rules with productivity
incentives;
- implementing a human resource policy based on motivation,
responsibility, and the rejuvenation of executive staff; and
- formulating an ambitious training policy.
In concert with these actions, ODEP launched a set of actions aimed
at transforming itself into modern, viable enterprise; to wit:
- the drafting of an enterprise's charter; and
- the reinforcement of management structures and tools.
c)    SIPOR
The completion of a Port Information System (SIPOR) resulted in the
following procedural enhancements:
1. The decentralization of all administrative and documentation
operations (included invoicing) towards Autonomous Production
Centers, permitting the creation of a "client space" specialized in
documentation services independent of the physical delivery of goods.
This speeds up operations by closing the gap between the client and the
operational centers.
2. The widespread use of the Guarantee System to cover port
operations, which allows to pull cost recovery operations out of the
critical path of port operations. The management information system
will show an adequate amount to be deposited by bringing it near the
level of each ODEP's monthly client invoicing amount. Tariff
simplification should permit the development of an automated recovery
system with all local banks.



21
3. The development of a service to provide users with information on
port procedures, ship calls, and the status of their goods.
4. The issue of an acknowledgement stamp prior to the importer's
obtaining a delivery slip should significantly reduce the transit time of
the goods in the port.
Aware that a management information system is only as sound as its
environment, since SIPOR completion, ODEP consulted with port
operators in order to integrate their informational needs. This defined
a means of interface in external data collection and in the provision of
services that would benefit all port operators.
These external interfaces cover three areas:
1) ship calls management
2) import procedures
3) export procedures
2.4.2  Assistance
Based on the diagnostic study of the workshops' initial conditions and
their organization, experts proposed several scenarios to improve the
maintenance function at ODEP.
In light of these proposals, ODEP has developed an action plan to:
- set up a new maintenance operation organization through the
establishment of an equipment unit within ODEP;
- set up a filing system to support maintenance supervision; and
- equip the workshops.
2.4.3  Training
a) TRAINMAR Project
To strengthen the port modernization effort, ODEP created a permanent
Port Training Center (CFP). Built with UNDP assistance, CFP is
affiliated with TRAINMAR network.
This center is endowed with qualified personnel and state-of-the-art
training equipment. CFP serves as a clearinghouse and keeps port staff
abreast of all the changes taking place in the sector through seminars,
one-day workshops, and other actions on various subjects related to



22
port operations (seminar on containerization, port security, user fees,
improvement in cargo handling techniques, port information). Besides
these actions, CFP has trained the Algerian and Mauritanian port
personnel within the framework of inter-Maghreb cooperation.
In tandem with these actions, ODEP staff (engineers, managers, and
supervisors) has benefitted from local and overseas study tours.
2.4.4 Works
a) Water supplv network rehabilitation
Prior to ODEP's takeover, the situation of the prevailing networks
could be summarized in the following fashion:
1) Lack of an specialized entity responsible for management of the
water supply network.
2) Lack of rigorous monitoring of water consumption as a way to
prevent leaks.
3) Full depreciation of distribution pipes.
4) The number of regular hydrants and quay hydrants could not meet
fire safety demands and ship water supply needs.
To overcome these inadequacies, ODEP adopted a strategy to improve
network management, i.e., leak detection and repair, in the port of
Casablanca. The annual consumption of 2,450,000 m3 in 1985 to
700,000 m3 in 1992 can only be explained by the intensive
rehabilitation efforts made for, inter alia, main pipes, secondary pipes,
and quay hydrants.
These efforts were directed to:
1) the creation of adequately staffed and equipped water supply
services.
2) the launching of diagnostic studies on the network and the various
problems causing their dysfunction.
3) the signing of maintenance contracts for the yearly maintenance of
the network.
4) the establishment of a unit to monitor daily water consumption,
record detected pipe leaks, and repair them immediately.



23
b) Construction of two ro-ro ramps
The increase in traffic from 336,691 tons in 1986 to 684,598 tons in 1990, on
the one hand, and the condition of the ro-ro ramps, on the other, brought on
the following problems:
- excessive ships' waiting time;
- delay in exporting goods; and
- frequent crashing against the docks due to inadequate installations to
accommodate the new ro-ro vessels.
The opening of two new ramps had a favorable impact on port operations by
- increasing ro-ro traffic in terms of both ship arrivals and tonnage;
- increasing capacity at berths to accommodate ro-ro traffic;
- making it possible to accommodate larger ro-ro vessels;
- satisfying the demands of maritirne agents and port operators;
- increasing hourly output, enabling both import and export operations
to be carried out simultaneously;
- reducing ships' waiting time;
- increasing the capacity to handle heavy cargo, up to 100 tons;
- reducing the ramps' occupancy rate; and
- enhancing the ramps' availability.
c) Complete renovation and modernization of the warehouses:
Prior to the completion of rehabilitation works, the general conditions of
the warehouses showed considerable damage, which adversely affected
operating conditions; to wit:
- waterproofing of old covers;
- lack of a rainwater removal system in the warehouses;
- cargo structure damage due to rust;



24
- difficulty to manoeuver gates;
- insufficient lighting;
- office not adapted to the needs;
- lack of security;
These shortcomings prompted ODEP to take the following steps:
- treatment of the metallic structure by sanding and painting;
- cover repairs;
- gutter repairs;
- renovation of gates and replacement of rails;
- lighting repairs;
- office improvements;
- installation of warning and fire safety systems;
- post protection; and
- masonry repairs.
These actions have resulted in:
- improved cargo handling;
- improved store ventilation;
- improved safety indicators and a lower accident rate; and
- reinforced fire safety for persons and property.
d) Construction of an access bridge to the port
Within the policy framework of easing congestion entrusted to ODEP
for the port of Casablanca, studies were made to ensure the steady flow
of entry and exit traffic in the port area. The results of these studies
enabled ODEP to build a bridge at the location of the present Gate 4
crossing over the railway lines and serving, at the same time, the new
container terminal under construction. Traffic distribution through



25
gates and signposts (entry/exit) indicates that the opening of the access
bridge brought about substantial changes in port traffic. This can be
illustrated on the basis of the weekly traffic assessment of Gate 4:
ENTRY                       EXIT
(TU*)                       (TU)
Before work completion               7,245                       10,368
After work completion                12,507                      21,392
Difference coming from               5,262                       11,024
Gate 3
* TU = theoretical unit
One truck     = 3 TU
One car      =1 TU
One motorcycle = 0.5 TU
III. ASSESSMENT OF RELATIONS BETWEEN THE WORLD BANK AND ODEP
DURING PROJECT PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
3.1   Assessment of Bank missions
The various missions sent by the Bank during project implementation permitted
ODEP's services to familiarize themselves with the various Bank's procedures.
Also, during those missions, the Bank provided technical advice needed to
carry out the various project components.
Even though the Bank supervised the project supervision, the high turnover in
Bank staff required sometimes additional periods of adjustment for the new
staff assigned to the project.
3.2   Assessment of procurement procedures:
Procurement procedures in force during project implementation caused some
delays in contract execution.
To illustrate this statement, we outline the procedure used:
1. Bidding documents
2. Forwarding to the Bank



26
3. Bank review                         )
) 1 month
4. Revision of bidding documents     )
5. Return to the Bank                     )
) 1 month
6. Agreement for consultation            )
7. Invitation to bid
8. Evaluation report
9. Forwarding of report to the Bank                   )
) 1 month
10. Bank non-objection                       )
11. Contract award
12. Contract forwarded to Bank          )
) 1 month
13. Bank agreement                       )
14. Contract signature between the firm and ODEP
15. One copy of the contract forwarded to Bank
To reduce this delay, it is proposed that the phase in which the corrected bid
documents are returned to the Bank be eliminated, which would advance the invitation
to bid from three months to two.
As this was the first port project financed by the Bank, the Bank contributed
significantly in familiarizing the various departments within ODEP with procurement
procedures.
Nevertheless, we noticed that the total delay for a contract to become effective was
relatively long.



27
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT OF CASABLANCA AND MOHAMMEDIA PROJECT
(Loan 2657-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



28
TABLE I
RELATED IDA CREDITS AND BANK LOANS
LOAN NUMBER        |                                             FY OF
AND TITLE        |                PURPOSE                  |_APPROVAL |_STATUS
Loans 3283/3284-MOR      Improvement of the operational efficiency of   91        ongoing
Port Sector Project      the port sector through construction of a
container terminal at Casablanca, of a coal
terminal at Jorf-Lasfar, of new roll-onJroll-
off facilities at Tangiers, and carrying out of
a rehabilitation and maintenance dredging
program; promotion of policies and
institutional measures for improving the
planning and coordination of the port
operations through technical assistance,
studies and training.



29
TABLE 2
PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM            |     PLANNED              REVISED       [      ACTUAL
Identification                                                              05/82
Preparation Beginning                                                       12/82
Preappraisal Mission                                                       03/20/83
Appraisal Mission                 09/83                04/84               12/10/84
08/84
12/84
Loan Negotiations                09/09/85             10/15/85             10/15/85
Board Approval                     12/85              01/28/86             02/25/86
02/25/86
Loan Signature                   05/09/86                                  05/09/86
Loan Effectiveness               08/09/86             11/10/86             12/30/86
01/12/87
Loan Closing                     06/30/91             06/30/92             06/30/93
06/30/93
Project Completion               12/31/91                                  10/31/93
Comments on Proiect Timetable
1.    The project was identified in May 1982 and preappraised in March 1983 as the first Bank Port
Project in Morocco. As such, it was first designed to address altogether institutional management,
existing operational shortcomings and physical development issues. But this ambitious project scope asked
for a corresponding high level of financial involvement from the national Moroccan budget, at a time
when austerity budgetary measures were to be implemented by the Government. As a result, lengthy
discussions took place both within the Bank and between the Bank and the Government in order to define
the adequate project scope given the financial constraints the Government had to cope with. This explains
why the appraisal mission was deferred three times and only took place 20 months after the preappraisal,
when agreement was finally reached on the postponement of the physical development component of the
project--the building of the Casablanca container terminal--which was later included in the ongoing Port
Sector Project.



30
2.     A legal issue cropped up during the run-up to loan negotiations about the possibility of making
two loans, one to the Government and one to ODEP. The Bank eventually preferred a single loan,
leaving the Government decide who should be the Borrower. After having at first stated that the
Government would be the single Borrower, the Moroccan delegation asked during negotiations the loan to
be made to ODEP, the Government being the Guarantor. In addition to this arrangement. an agreement
between ODEP and the Government had then to be concluded in order to define how ODEP would handle
the DPCM part of the project on behalf of the Government (see Evaluation Summary, para. 2).
3.     Loan effectiveness took place seven months only after loan signature because of delays in
Morocco in getting the required legal documentation ready.
4.     The closing date had to be extended twice as a consequence of a slow procurement process and
because some rehabilitation works required supplementary investigation prior to finalization of bidding
documents.



TABLE 3
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
($US Million Equivalent)
FY              1986   J   1987         1988         1989        1990   |   1991   [   1992   J   1993           1994
SAR Estimate             1.42        6.24       11.57       17.00       20.50       22.00
Profile                              2.20        6.60       11.00       15.40        18.04      20.68        21.56       22.00
Actual                               0.65        1.92        6.93        8.79        12.23       17.01       20.42       21.96
Actual as % of                      29          29          58          57          65          82           93          99.8
Profile
Date of Final Disbursement: 11/24/93



32
TABLE 4
PORT PROJECT (MYCPA069)
Disbursement Information
(U.S.$ millions)
FISCAL      ACTUAL AMOUNT        PROFILE AMOUNT  |  ORIGINAL AMOUNT           REVISED AMOUNT
YEAR          CUMULATIVE           CUMILATIVE    |    CUMULATIVE          |    CUMULATIVE
1986
Sept, 1985
Dec, 1985                                                       .10
Mar, 1986                                                       1.00
Jun, 1986                                                       1.42
1987
Sept, 1986                                .27                   3.36
Dec, 1986                                 .55                   4.09
Mar, 1987            .65                  1.38                  5.19                  .33
Jun, 1987            .65                  2.20                  6.24                  .65
1988
Sep, 1987            .97                  3.08                  7.89                  .83
Dec, 1987            1.03                 3.96                  9.10                  1.03
Mar, 1988            1.26                 5.28                 10.11                  1.48
Jun, 1988            1.92                 6.60                  11.57                 1.92
1989
Sep, 1988           5.94                  7.48                 13.92                  4.17
Dec, 1988           6.42                  8.36                 15.10                  6.42
Mar, 1989           6.87                  9.68                 16.07                  6.66
Jun, 1989           6.93                 11.00                 17.00                  6.93
1990
Sep, 1989           7.54                 12.32                 17.92                  7.23
Dec, 1989           7.56                 13.64                 18.82                  7.56
Mar, 1990           8.33                 14.52                 19.67                  8.16
Jun, 1990           8.79                 15.40                 20.50                  8.79



33
PORT PROJECT (MYCPA069)
Disbursement Information (Cont.)
(U.S.$ millions)
FISCAL       ACTUAL AMOUNT        PROFILE AMOUNT        ORIGINAL AMOUNT         REVISED AMOUNT
YEAR          CUMULATIVE            CUMULATIVE            CUMULATIVE             CUMULATIVE
1991
Sep, 1990            8.79                 15.84                  21.14                  9.51
Dec, 1990            10.24                16.28                  21.62                  10.24
Mar, 1991            10.28                17.16                  21.87                  11.23
Jun, 1991            12.23                18.04                  22.00                  12.23
1992
Sep, 1991            13.09                18.92                                         13.55
Dec, 1991            14.86                19.80                                         14.86
Mar, 1992            15.69                20.24                                         15.94
Jun, 1992            17.01                20.68                                         17.01
1993
Sep, 1992            18.61                20.90                                         18.61
Dec, 1992            19.70                21.12                                         19.70
Mar, 1993            19.85                21.34                                         19.85
Jun, 1993            20.42                21.56                                         20.42
1994
Sep, 1993            20.97                21.78                                         20.84
Dec, 1993            21.96                22.00                                         22.00
Mar, 1994
Jun, 1994   1                     1                    1                       1 _ __ _
Note: (LOA Data as of 12/30/93 - MIS Data as of 02/03/94)



TABLE 5.1
PROJECT COSTS
(SUS Million Equivalent)
Part A: ODEP
SAR      ESTE14ATES                     |                        ACTUiAL                            VARIATION
ITEMS                            LOCAL           FOREIGN           TOTAL             LoCAL             FOREIGN             TOTA%L                         I
A. Rehabilitation
1. Paving and Drainage                              2.52             2.42             4 94               8 20                                  8 20             66
2. Water Supply System                              0 98             0.95              1.93              0.43                                 A043             -77
3. Transit Sheds                                    0.78             0 75              1.53              8 22               -                  8 22            437
4. Electrical System                                0.68             0.66              1.34              7 11               0.28               7.39            451
5. Ship Repair Facilities                           1.23             1.17             2.40                -                 -                  -              -100
6. Ro-Ro Ramps                                      1.14             1.10             2,24               2 82                                  2.82             26
7. ODEP Workshops                                   0 49             0 47             0 96                                                                    -100
Sub-total A                                   7.82             7.52             15.34             26.78               0,28              27 06             76.40
B. Equipment
-100
8. ODEP Workshops                                   0.40             0.55             0.95
Sub-total B                                   0 40             0.55              0.95                                                                   -100
C. Technical Assistance
9. Project Preparation and Supervision              0.13             0.32             0 45               0.16               0.31               0.47              4
10. Studies                                         0.25              0.60             0.85               1 73              0.98               2.71            218
11. Training                                        0 12              0.28             0.40               0.37              0.35               0.72             80
12. Experts                                         0 29              0 67             0.96               0 14              0.36               0 50             -48
Sub-total C                                   0.79              1 87             2.66              2 40               200                4 40             65.41
Total Base Cost
13. Physical Contingencies                          9.01              9.94            18.95              29 18              2.28              31.46
14. Price Contingencies                              1.29             1 37             2 66               -                  -                  -
2.26             1.97             4 23               -
Added Components                                                        -                -                 5 14                                  5 14
TOTAL PROJECT COsT  PART A                           12.56            13.28             25.84             34.32               2.28              36.60             41.64



TABLE 5.2
PROJECT COSTS
($US Million Equivalent)
Part B: DPCM
SAR     ESTIMATES                                    ACTUAL                      VARIATION
ITEMS                   LOCAL        FOREIGN        TOTAL         LOCAL          FOREIGN         TOTAL            %
A. Rehabilitation
1. Dredging                          1.12         1.54          2.66           1.63             -             1.63
2. Casablanca Breakwater             1.07          1.49          2.56          0.23           0.29            0.52
3. Control Tower                    0.06          0.07           0.13          0.39           0.97            1.36
Sub-total A                    2.25          3.10          5.35           2.25           1.26           3.51          -34.39
B. Equipment
4. Mohammedia Breakwater             2.31          3.19          5.50          0.20           6.54            6.74          22.55
Sub-total B                    2.31          3.19          5.50           0.20           6.54           6.74           22.55
C. Technical Assistance                                                                                                       23.08
5. Project Preparation
and Supervision                   0.08          0.20           0.28          0.07           0.09           0.16
6. Training                         0.04          0.09           0.13            -              -              -
Sub-total C                    0.12          0.29          0.41           0.07           0.09           0.16          -60.98
Total Base Cost                       4.68           6.58         11.26          2.52           7.89           10.41         308.24
7. Physical Contingencies           0.58          0.81           1.39            -              -              -
8. Price Contingencies               1.21          1.34          2.55            -
Added Components                        -             -             -            1.61             -             1.61
TOTAL PROJECTS COSTS PART B           6.47          8.73          15.20          4.13           7.89           12.02         -20.92



36
TABLE 5.3
DETAILED COSTS OF ADDED COMPONENTS
($US Million Equivalent)
COSTS
ITEMS                                 LOCAL       FOREIGN      TOTAL
Part A
1. Quaywall Rehabilitation in Casablanca Fishing Port.           0.46          -          0.46
2. Access Bridge to Gate 4 in Casablanca Port.                    3.36          -          3.36
3. Road Access to Gate 4.                                        0.35           -         0.35
4. Port Training Center.                                          0.97          -          0.97
Total Part A                                        5.14           -         5.14
Part B
3. Computerization of the Operations Division in Casablanca Port.  0.03         -         0.03
4. Making and Laying of Blocks for the Mohammedia Breakwater.     1.58          -          1.58
Total Part B                                         1.61          -          1.61
TorAL ADDED COMPONENTs                                              6.75                     6.75



TABLE 5.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
($US Million Equivalent)
SAR      ESTIMATES                                        ACTUAL                         VARIATION
_   LOCAL    | FOREIGN   J    TOTAL                 LOCAL      [ FOREIGN    |    TOTAL           %_ _
Part A                        12.56           13.28           25.84           34.32             2.28           36.60           41.64
Part B                         6.47           8.73            15.20            4.13             7.89           12.02          -20.92
TOTAL PROJECT COStS           19.03          22.01            41.04           38.45            10.17           48.62           18.47



TABLE 6.1
PROJECT FLNANCING
(SUS Million Equivalent)
Part A: ODEP
SAR    ESTIMATES                                                 ACTUAL
ITEMS                                                               % OF BANK                             I                 % OF BANK
TOTAI       BANR     BoRROwER  | SlukRE                TOTAL   | BANKT     BORROWFER  | SHARE 
A. Rehabilitation
-         ~~8,20         0
I. Pavi0g and Drainage.                      4.94          2 42           2 52          49            8.20         0 21           0.22          48.8
2. Water Supply System.                       1 93         0.95           0.98          49            0.43         3 96           4.26          48 2
3. Transit Sheds.                             1 53         0.75           0.78          49            8.22         -              7 39
4. Electrical Systent                         1.34         0.66           0 68          49            7.39         -                            48.9
5 Ship Rcpair Facilitics                     2 40          1 17            1.23         49             -           1 38           1 44           -
6. Ro-Ro Ramips.                             2.24          1 10            1.14         49            282          -
7. ODEP Workshops                            0.96          0.47           0.49          49
Sub-iotal A                            15 34         7 52            7 82          49           27 06         5.55          21 51         20 5
LI)
B. Equipment                                                                                                                                                                       0C
0.95         0.52            0.43          55            -            -
8. ODEP Workshops.
Sub-total B                             0.95         0 52           (1 43          55            -            -
C. Technical Assistance
9. Project Preparation and Supervision.      0 45          (1 32          0.13          70            0.47         0 37           0.10          78.7
10. Studies.                                  0.85          0 60           0.25          70            2.71         2.14           0 57         79 0
11. Training.                                 0.40          0.28           0.12          70            0.82         0.82           -           100
12. Experts.                                  0.96          0.67           0.29          70            0.50         0.45           0.05         90
Sub-total C                             2.66          1 87           0.79          70            4 50        3 78           0.72          84
Total Base Cost                                18.95         9.91           9.04           52.3         31.56        9.33          22.23          29.6
Contingencies                                  6 89          3 43           3 46                                     -               - _
Added Components                                -             -                             -           5.14         2.42           2.72          47.
TOTAL COSTS PART A                            25.84         13.34           12.50         51.6         36.60        11.75          24.85          32.1



TABLE 6.2
PROJECT FINANCING
($US Million Equivalent)
Part B: DPCM
ACTUAL
SAR    ESTIMATES
I  % OF BANK                               |              |  % OF BANK
ITEMS                              TOTAL           BANK        BORROWER          SHARE          TOTAL         BANK       BORROVVER          SHARE
A. Rehabilitation
1. Dredging.                                            2 66            1 54           1 12             58            1.63         0.94          0 69            58 0
2. Casablanca Breakwater.                                2 56            149            1 07            58            0.52         0.41          0 11            78 8
3. Control Tower.                                        013            0 07           0.06             58            1 36         1 20          016             88.2
Sub-total A                                        5 35            3.10          2.25             58            3.51         2 55          0.96            72.6
B. Equipment
4. Mohammedia Breakwater.                                5.50           3 02           2.48             55            6.74         6.57          0 17            97.5
Sub-total B                                        5 50            3.02          2.48             55            6.74         6 57          0.17            97.5
C. Technical Assistance
5. Project Preparation and Supervision.                  0.28           0.20           0.08             70            0.16         0.14          0.02
6. Training.                                             0.13           0.09           0.04             70              -                                        87.5
Sub-total C                                        0.41           0 29           0.12             70            016          0.14          0 02            87.5
Total Base Cost                                            11.26           6.41           4.85           56 9           10 41         9.26          1.15            a8 9
Contingencies                                              3.94            2.25           1.69
Added Components                                                            -              -                             1 61        0.94          0.67             57.8
TOTAL COSTS PART B                                         15.20           8.66           6.54           57.0           12.02        10.20          1.82           84.8



TABLE 6.3
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING
($US Million Equivalent)
SAR    ESTIMATES                                            ACTUAL
II  I                         1~~~~~~~~~% OFBANK       JIj% OFBANK
__  TOTAL         BANK       BORROWER        SHARE        TOTAL        BANK        BORROWER        SHARE
Part A                       25.84         13.34         12.50        51.6         36.60         11.75    |    24.85          32.1
Part B                        15.20         8.66          6.54        57.0         12.02         10.20          1.82          84.8
TOTAL PRojEcT CosTs           41.04        22.00         19.04        53.6         48.62         21.95         26.67          45.14



41
TABLE 7
STATUS OF COVENANTS
DATE
REQUIRED                         ACTION DUE        |            ACTION TAKEN
1. Yearly maintenance                            12/31 each year      Reports submitted.
reports.
2. Study of incidence of delays in the transit of   10/31/1986        Main studies carried out and actions
goods through ports and remedies to bring.                         taken to reduce dwelling time of goods.
3. The Borrower shall:
- employ port operations specialist             07/01/1986         Specialist employed from 09/01/1986 to
08/31/1988.
- employ internal audit specialist               10/01/1987        Specialist employed from 09/30/1988 to
01/15/1989.
- employ financial management specialist        01/01/1987         Management study carried out between
10/1985 and 05/1988.
- employ workshop specialist and container       04/01/1986        Missions carried out between 03/1987
terminal specialist                                              and 02/1989.
- employ MIS specialist                         04/01/1986         Mission completed.
4. The Borrower shall:
- prepare and furnish to the Bank a yearly     12/31 each year     Carried out to a large extent in a
detailed action plan                                              satisfactory way.
- carry out related proposed actions
- review actions and furnish progress report  06/30 each year      Carried out to a large extent in a
to the Bank                                                       satisfactory way.
5. Audit report on Project Account and ODEP    9 months after the end   Done.
Financial Statements.                            of each FY



TABLE 8
ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
($lJS Million Equivalent)
[                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~AVOIDING
GENERAL
AVOIDING                             CARGO
BREAKWATER         AVOIDING        DAMAGE AND           TOTAI.          INVESTMENT       MAINTENANCE       NET ANNUAL
YEARS            DAMAGE         WATER LOsSES         LOSSES          ADVANTAGES          COST S            COSTS            BENEFITS
1987                                  0.37                                0.37              1.44                              -1.07
1988                                  0.43              1                 1.43              2.81                              -1.38
1989                                  0.62              2                 2.62             11.07                              -8.45
1990                                  0.80              3                 3.80              4,11                              -0.31
1991                5                 0.96              4                 9.96              7.60                               2.36
1992               10                 1.30              5                16.30             10.56                               5.74
1993                                  1.30              5                 6.30             11.03                              -4.73
1994                                  1.30              5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
1995                                  1.30              5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
1996                5                 1.30              5                11.30                                0.5             10.80
1997               10                 1.30              5                16.30                                0.5             15.80
1998                                  1.30              5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
1999                                  1.30              5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
2000                                   1.30             5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
2001                 5                 1.30             5                11.30                                0.5             10.80
2002               10                  1.30             5                16.30                                0.5             15.80
2003                                   1.30             5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
2004                                   1.30             5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
2005                                   1.30             5                 6.30                                0.5              5.80
ERR                                                                                                                            0.29



43
TABLE 9.1
ODEP INCOME STATEMENTS
(in current DH million)
1985   (  1986   ]  1987         1988   ]   1989   J   1990   ]  1991
Total Operating Revenues      590        684        772        916         957        920      1016
(413)      (528)     (602)       (677)      (763)      (824)     (910)
Working Expenses              407        524        538        592        642         583       648
(285)      (323)     (353)      (386)       (422)      (462)     (506)
Depreciations and Provisions   122        126       171        243         239        245       278
(85)      (107)     (129)      (144)       (156)      (168)     (181)
Operating Income               61         34         63         81          76         92        90
(43)       (98)     (120)       (147)      (185)      (194)     (223)
Interests                      11         20         34         27         36          32        45
(28)       (43)      (55)        (61)       (61)       (51)      (40)
Income before taxes             7         10          6         30         -16         24        42
(16)       (72)       (98)      (140)      (171)      (187)     (231)
Income after taxes              3          2          1          19       -31           7        27
_    (9)      (40)        (55)       (78)       (96)      (105)     (129)   l
Note: Figures in brackets were forecasts.



44
TABLE 9.2
ODEP BALANCE SHEET FOR 1985-1991
(in current DH million)
1985   ]   1986       1987   ]   1988       1989      1990  [  1991
New Fixed Assets               547        490        885        859       939       1143      1205
(957)     (1261)     (1644)     (1854)    (1983)    (2103)    (2228)
Other Assets                   120        260        320        471       621       525        710
(94)      (119)       (19)       (19)      (19)      (19)       (19)
Current Assets                 480        480        361        449       447        330       358
(290)      (257)      (215)      (194)     (216)     (236)      (257)
Cash                           129        112         51         38        80         32        19
136        188         99         90        56        46         64
TOTAL ASSETS                  1276       1342       1617        1817     2087      2029       2292
(1478)     (1826)     (1978)     (2157)   (2275)    (2403)    (2569)
Equity                         730        787        833        878       958       986        963
(850)      (912)     (1145)     (1273)    (1498)    (1711)    (1975)
L.T.D.                         144         94        293        382       413       439        702
(373)      (571)      (613)      (699)    (606)      (491)      (376)
Current Liabilities            305        433        461        521       682       604        627
(254)      (244)      (221)      (186)     (191)     (202)      (218)
Short term / L.T.D.             97         28         30         35        35          -          -
TOTAL EQuiTy & LIABILITY    1276         1342       1617        1817     2087      2029       2292
(1478)     (1826)     (1978)     (2157)   (2275)    (2403)    (2569)
Note: Figures in brackets were forecasts.



45
TABLE 9.3
ODEP SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS FOR 1985-1991
(in current DH million)
|   1985       1986   [  1987   |  1988          1989        1990   J   1991
Total Internal Funds       115        136         189        231         187          237         293
(94)      (148)      (184)      (221)        (252)       (273)       (311)
Working Capital (+/-)       78        -60        -149         23        -162            4           4
(-2)      (-21)     (-19)        (14)        (16)          (7)         (7)
Debt Services              -23        -57         -53        -56         -70           75          83
(27)       (49)       (84)      (105)        (131)       (128)       (127)
Net Cash Generation         14        138        284         152         280          166         206
(69)      (120)      (120)      (104)        (105)       (137)       (176)
Government Contribution    641         36         102         17         111            4         -63
(54)       (35)        (6)      (-13)         (-1)        (4)         (-3)
Borrowings                 240          0        161         119          72           69         301
(146)      (257)      (157)      (225)         (30)          -
Available Funds            896        175        547         287         462          239         443
(269)      (412)      (282)      (316)        (145)       (160)       (197)
Capital Expenditures       767        192        608         311         420          287         456
(317)      (360)      (372)      (326)        (178)       (170)       (180)
Cash Increase (dec.)       129        -17         -61        -24          42          48          -12
(48)       (52)       (-90)      (-10)       (-33)        (-10)        (17)
Note: Figures in brackets were forecasts.



TABLE 10
PROJECT STUDIES
|PURPOSE AS DEFINED AT
STUDIES                    |            APPRAISAL              I            STATUS                          IMPACT OF STUDY
Part A       Port Tariff                  To allow the Port to adjust its tariff   Completed.                  Formed the basis of the tariff escalation
structure to the actual costs of the                                policy implemented by ODEP since
services provided.                                                  1988.
ODEP Organization            To reorganize ODEP and streamline   Completed.                      Laid out the principles and
administrative procedures.                                          organizational schemes followed by
ODEP in its reorganization.
Future Port Project          To define the scope of a possible   Completed.                      Contributed to the design of the ongoing
future port project (not included in                                Port Sector Project.
SAR).                                                               ___
Ship Repair Facilities       To assess the rehabilitation needs of   Will be completed with ODEP  Will provide a market assessment and
the Casablanca shipyard in the new    financing beyond the project  the design of the related new facilities to
economic and operational context    schedule.                       be set up.
(not included in SAR).
Part B       Detailed Design for          To establish the appropriate        Completed.                       Provided the design implemented for the
Rehabilitation of the Moulay   technical solution for strengthening                              ongoing rehabilitation works under the
Youssef Berth               the berth.                                                           Port Sector Project.
Rehabilitation of the Moulay   To establish the reasons for the  Completed.                      Provided the design for the rehabilitation
Youssef Breakwater           deterioration of the breakwater                                     works to be carried out under the Port
stability and design the adequate                                   Sector Project.
rehabilitation works.
|~~~~ I                                                                    I. 



TABLE 11
MISSION DATA
I   I       |  SPECIALIZATION     STATUS   TREND    PROBLENIS
MONTH/  No OF    DAYS IN          REPRESENTED                                         DATE OF
YEAR     STAFF      FIELD            (1)            (2)       (3)        (4)         REPORT
Through Appraisal
Identification               05/82                                                                       -         06/06/82
Preparation                   12/82       1         4       EC                                           -
Preappraisal                 03/83        4         12      EC,FA,EN,LO                                            04/28/83
02/84       1                 EC                                                     02/27/84
Appraisal                     12/84       5         18      EC,FA,EN,PO,IT                                         01/09/85
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Prep. Negotiations 1         05/85        2         2       EC,LO
Prep. Negotiations 11        07/85        1         7       EC                                                     08/05/85
Prep. Negotiations 111       09/85        3         5       EC,FA,FN                                     -
Negotiations Completion       11/85       2         3       LO,LA                                         _        11/19/85
Supervision
Supervision 1                09/86        4         12      EC,FA,EN,IT             I        1                     12/08/86
Supervision 11               06/87        2         8       EC,EN                   I        1                     07/23/87
Supervision III              01/88        2         10      FA,EN                   1        1                     02/17/88
Supervision IV                10/88       2         13      EC,EN                   1        1                     11/22/88
Supervision V                05/89        5         14      EC,FA,EN,IT,CE          1        1                     06/17/89
(Supervision VI)             (10/89)
(Supervision VII)            (0 1/90)
(Supervision VJII)           (03/90)                                                                               07/26/90
Supervision IX               03/91        1         7       EN                     2         2          D
Supervision X                 10/91       1         12      EN                     2         1          D          10/26/91
Supervision Xl               01/92        2         14      EN,FA                  2         1          D          03/18/92
Supervision XII              06/92        1         11       EN                    2         1          D          08/05/92
Supervision XIII              01/93       1         12      EN                      1        1                     03/05/93
Completion                   06/93        1         12      EN                      1        1                     07/12/93



(1)      EC = Economist, EN = Port Engineer, FA = Financial Analyst, PO = Port Operations Expert, LO = Loan Officer, LA = Legal Adviser, IT = Expert in International
Trade, CE = Computerization Expert
(2)      1 = Problem free or minor problems, 2 = Moderate problems, 3 = Major problems
(3)      1 = Improving, 2 = Stationary, 3 = Deteriorating
(4)      D = Disbursement
(Supervision VI to Vill): supervision missions carried out in parallel with identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal of the Port Sector Project.
or-



49
TABLE 12
STAFF INPUTS
(in person-weeks)
[|_PREPARATION  [ APPRAISAL _1NEGOTIATIONS    SUPERVISION                 PCR            TOTAL
FY82               5.6                                                                                5.60
FY83              36.8                                                                               36.80
FY84              15.6                                                                               15.60
FY85               3.5           44.8                                                                48.30
FY86                              3.3               23.9              5.6                            32.80
FY87                                                                 21.4                            21.40
FY88                                                                 10.6                            10.60
FY89                                                                 18.1                            18.10
FY90                                                                  4.4                             4.40
FY91                                                                  4.8                             4.80
FY92                                                                  8.5                             8.50
FY93                                                                  9.0            2.7             11.70
FY94                                                                                 2.8              2.80
TOTAL              61.50          48.10              23.90            82.40           5.50          221.40






CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT                                                                                       Lonhrn^ Cno)en   ov     
1~~~~~~t 201                                                                                                    4'e35 u_w
The boundaries. colors,  Ioio~n                D
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Csblno den  ominoton  an  ot
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- OALROD
The World Ban  Grou.                     Ab                                                                        i      \
any jugmn 'onI t  >he leal                                                                                                                                                              PROINC CAIT
|  *  .  V hP 3  K  >' ly I t - j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-h. 
status ~~               ~           ~J of an  terrce                                                                      oumitory,t du
oro aceptance of u,.h
A A-d |   mX                    t             ~             t    PORT PROJECT LEL ATION  S
denomsnohons ond ony  Ail blelloul   l         S i<vi                                         /  edg                              _      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECONOMIC REGONA OUDAIE
F-fl.  L11-1 ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ITPNTINA.BONDR
32 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I2
oIher Informohon s
on this moo  do  nof                                                                                            X~~~~~~~~~~~I.n .-
imply~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  on 0                                                                                           PORT PsROET o.....---- LOCALTROADS
The boudrlfies, colroup                                                  -d                                                    'O                                                      MAO     RIROADS
denominotions ond ay                                           Alg l0-                       s                         _)                                                             SEODR_OD
orany j~reniorsemeht lr,I                                                                  T
or any epndeofrsemen                              ,'      J                                                                                                                    5      NATIONAL CAPITAL
bo.ndanres.                                                      (                                                                                                              0    TOWNS AND CITIES
_ >   _   w                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELEVATION ABOVE 1 000 METERS
< J y   Guelmim               o                        O ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              ~~~ KILOM-MRS  iNTERNATIONAL BOUNOARIES
.28'/_~                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY






MOROCCO
CASABLANCA PORT PROJECT
PORT LAYOUT
Built-up Areos
Future Extention
-.-*   Customs Fence
II  Railroadss
-       Port Buildings
KILOMETERS i'
Royal NaJvy                         Harbor                                 \t
D ~~~~~~MosteBrs 
Flootinqg ,  >
Equipment - K \ 
-   - - - - - ---- - - --o- -
Got.                                                           lb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   M-0.,4A t. r...Cp  'j00
No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I, 4*   y5~   w                                                                       acndmb..            'C



