                                               Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                ReportNo. 34357 -M A




         INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                      FORA PROPOSEDLOAN


                           INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO 166.3MILLION

                                 (US$200MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                   THEKINGDOMOF MOROCCO

                                                  FORA

                     FINANCIALSECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                           November 17,2005




Finance, PrivateSector and InfrastructureDepartment
Middle East andNorthAfrica Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 MOROCCO GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                                              -
                                         January 1" -December 31''

                                         CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective as of September 30th, 2005)

                                   Currency Unit          Moroccan Dirham
                                      US$1.oo                   9.3 DH



                                  ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS


AML             Anti-Money Laundering
BCP             Banque Centrale Populaire (People's Central Bank)
BMAO            Banque Marocaine pour I'Afrique et I'Orient (Moroccan Bankfor Africa and the East)
BNDE            Banque Nationale pour le Dtveloppement Economique (National Bankfor Economic Development)
C A M           CrtditAgricole du Maroc (Moroccan Agricultural Bank)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CDG             Caissede DtpGt et Gestion (Deposit and Management Fund)
CDVM            Conseil Dtontologique des Valeurs MobiliPres (Securities Ethics Council)
CFAA            Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFT             Counter-Financing of Terrorism
CIH             Cre'dit lmmobilier et HGtelier (Housing and Real Estate Bank)
CNCA            CaisseNationale de Cre'ditAgricole (National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CPM             Cre'dit Populaire du Maroc (People's Bank of Morocco)
EIB             European Investment Bank
FSAP            Financial Sector AssessmentProgram
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
IBRD            InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA             InternationalDevelopment Association
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IMF             International Monetary Fund
LDP             Letter of Development Policy
NPLS            NonPerforming Loans
ROSC            Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes




                               Vice President:           Christiaan J. Poortman
                               Country Director:         Theodore 0.Ahlers
                               Sector Director           Hossein Razavi
                               Sector Manager:           Zoubida Allaoua
                               Team Leader:              Samir ElDaher




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                        Kingdom of Morocco
                                FINANCIAL             SECTORDEVELOPMENTPoLicY LOAN


                                                    TABLEOFCONTENTS


    LOANAND PROGRAM SUMMARY                          .........................................................................................................        i
    I. INTRODUCTION           ................................................................................................................................         1
    11.   MACROECONOMICFRAMEWORK                                  .............................................................................................        2
    111. MOROCCO'S FINANCIAL SECTORREFORMAGENDA                                                          .........................................................     4
                     MAINFINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES...............................................................................                                        4
                     GOVERNMENT PROGRAM.............................................................................................                                   6

    IV.   BANKSUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT STRATEGY                                                      ............................................................     8
                     OBJECTIVE AND RATIONALE....................
                     LINKTO CAS .....                 .............................................
                     COLLABORATIO                     ITHTHE IMFAND OTHE
                     RELATIONSHIP TO OTHERBANK OPERATIONS...........
                     LESSONS LEARNED ..........................                          ........................................................................      11
                     ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS....                                        ........................................................................      11

    V.    THE PROPOSEDFINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN                                                                             ........................... 12
                     OPERATIONDESCRIPTION............................................................................................                                  12
                     LOANAMOUNT AND TRANCHING...............................................................................                                           19
                     POLICY AREAS..............................................................                                         .............................. 19
    VI.   OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION                           .................................................................................................         19
                     POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS .........                                                                 ..........
                     SUPERVISION                                                                       .................................................
                     FIDUCIARY A                        ......................................................................
                     DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING .................................................................................                                        20
                     ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ........................................................................................ .21
                     RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION......................................................................................                                   21


    ANNEXES
    ANNEX 1:LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY (ENGLISH & FRENCH)............................................                                                                  24
    ANNEX 2: OPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX................................................................................................. 32
    ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE.......................................................................................................... 35
    ANNEX 4: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (INCLUDES COUNTRY MAP) ....................................................                                                           40




The loan was preparedby an IBRD team composedo f Samir El Daher, RegionalFinancialSector Advisor; Jean Pesme,
Sr. Financial Sector Specialist; Dimitri Vittas, Senior Advisor; Didier Debals, Sr. Financial Sector Specialist; Alain
Laurin, consultant (Banque de France); Charlie Garrigues, consultant (Payments system); Steve Wan, Sr. Program
Assistant. Peer Reviewersare Deane Jordan, Lead Operations Officer andWafik Grais, Sr. Advisor. The Sector Director
i s HosseinRazavi, the Sector Manager Zoubida Allaoua, and the CountryDirector TheodoreAhlers.

                                                   - 1 -



                            LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

                                        Kingdom of Morocco
                        FINANCIAL     SECTORDEVELOPMENT LOAN       POLICY

Borrower               Government of Morocco
Implementing Agencies  Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank
Amount                 EURO 166.3 million (US$200 millionequivalent)
Terms                  Commitment-linked, Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) of EURO 166.3 million
                       (US$200 million equivalent). A capitalized front-end fee of EURO 417,750
                       (US$500,085 equivalent). The lending rate applicable i s six month LIBOR
                       plus a fixed spread for FSLs denominated in EURO. The loan repayment
                       period will be 20 years, including an eight-year grace period. Interest and
                       other charges will be payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of
                       each year. The final reimbursement date i s November 15,2025.
Tranching              Two tranches of EURO 108.5 million (US$130 million equivalent) for the
                       first one and EURO 57.8 million (US$70 million equivalent) for the second;
                       the first one to be disbursed after effectiveness and the second one at the latest
                       12 to 18 months after effectiveness, which is the period over which agreed
                       measures are expected to be finalized, following the Bank's review of policy
                       actions implemented as per the loan agreement.
Description            The main development objective of the government financial sector reform
                       program, and o f the proposed loan, is to strengthen the enabling legal and
                       institutional environment for financial intermediation and risk management,
                       and to increase private sector role and participation in the provision of
                       financial services. The operation would support this objective under three
                       components aimed at: (i)implementing an effective and modern legal,
                       regulatory and supervisory framework, in line with international standards,
                       across the banking, insurance, and securities markets so as to improve
                       financial intermediation and risk-taking behaviors, and foster a more efficient
                       mobilization of savings; (ii)restructuring weak public financial institutions
                       particularly in addressing their stock of non-performing assets, and
                       streamlining their role and activities in the financial sector; and (iii)
                       developing as needed the financial sector infrastructure in modernizing the
                       payments system, improving the integrity of the financial sector through better
                       anti-money laundering policies, and enhancing the quality of financial
                       information in upgrading accounting and auditing standards.
Benefits               Benefits would result from alleviating impediments to a more efficient
                       functioning of the financial system, from a stronger legal and regulatory
                       environment, from addressing the weaknesses of the public financial
                       institutions and by strengthening their financial intermediation capacity. This
                       should contribute to enhancing the flow of credit to the corporate sector, and
                       improving risk management in the context of the progressive liberalization of
                       Morocco's economy, including its external transactions.

Risks                  The main risks could be a slowdown of the reform momentum to a path that
                       would not allow for a genuine move towards market-based, risk-taking
                       business patterns in the specialized public banking institutions (moral hazard
                       issue). This relates particularly to the restructuring of the Cre`ditAgricule du
                       Maruc, the pace of this restructuring, and the burden-sharing of costs.
3peration ID Number    PO88243


           INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR RECONSTRUCTIONAN DEVELOPMENT
                            PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA PROPOSED
                     FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                                 TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO




                                        I. INTRODUCTION

1.      As a result of reforms initiated since the early 1990s, supported inter-alia by a World
Bank adjustment operation in 1996, Morocco has significantly modernized its financial sector. It
has established the main components of a modem financial system bestowing increased
autonomy and power to the monetary and regulatory authorities; it has a number of well
established, sound and profitable private banks, and good primary and secondary markets for
government securities. Credit to the private sector accounts for a relatively good share (55
percent) of GDP, and has a potential for further growth. Despite these positive steps, the financial
sector continues to face important challenges related to improving the competitiveness of
banking institutions, developing the insurance and capital markets, modernizing the payments
system, and pursuingthe strengthening of the supervisory framework. Furthering the coverage of
the retail banlung system, and access to financial services for low income groups remain key
challenges.

2.      The banking sector plays a central role in the financial system. The State still plays an
important role in the sector through direct or indirect control of a significant share of domestic
financial assets, in five banks including four.former specialized financial institutions (the former
OFSs'), and the Caissede Dkppdt et Gestion(CDG),a non-bank financial institution which plays
an important role in the economy.

3.      Life insurance and other forms of long-term saving schemes have higher penetration
levels than in other neighboring countries, although they have not yet gained broad appeal in the
general public. Contributors to pension funds represent less than 15 percent of the labor force.
The weakness ininstitutional savings i s one of the impediments to capital market development.

4.      The 2002 Morocco Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) highlighted some key
priorities for financial sector reform. These were broadly endorsed by the authorities and
included, in particular, the: (i)restructuring of state-owned banks formerly specialized, and
streamlining of their role in the financial system; (ii)      strengthening of the legal, regulatory and
supervisory framework for the banking sector, including procedures for troubled-bank resolution;
(iii) ofthepensionsystem,ensuringpublicpensionprogramslong-termsustainabilityand
    reform
containment of government contingent liabilities; and (iv) reduction of distortions in financial
sector intermediation. The authorities have already taken action in several of these priority areas,


1   The former OrganismesFinanciers SpCcialisCs (OFS) include Banque Nationale pour le DCveloppement
    Economique (BNDE), le Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC), le CrCdit Immobilier et HBtelier (CIH), and la
    CaisseNationale du Credit Agricole (CNCA), recently transformed into a limited company and renamed CrCdit
    Agricole du Maroc (CAM).

                                                 - 2 -


sometimes with technical assistance from the IMF, and financial support from the European
Union and the African Development Bank.

5.      Against this background, the authorities have requested World Bank support for their
financial sector reform program through a Development Policy Loan. This Program Document
lays out the framework for the implementation of a successful program by: (i)     outlining how the
proposed reforms would address key impediments to further financial sector development in
Morocco through measures consistent with the overarching objectives of financial sector
efficiency and increased private participation in the financial sector; (ii) assessing the measures
and processes used to restructure the troubled public banks; and (iii)      assessing the key risks
associated with the operation. The proposed structure of the operation, in two tranches, reflects
the World Bank's and the authorities' assessment that the proposed reform program represents a
consistent and self-reinforcing package to be implemented over a 12 to 18 month timeframe. In
this context, the first tranche aims at loclung in as soon as possible a set of irreversible policy
measures and at supporting the reform momentum. The second tranche conditions encompass
measures which require more time for preparation and will deepen the structural changes in the
economy.


                          11.     MACROECONOMICFRAMEWORK

6.      Over the past decade, Morocco has implemented successful stabilization programs and
pursuedprudent economic, fiscal, monetary and debt management policies, and financial sector
reforms which have been conducive to maintaining price stability. It initiated an ambitious
program of structural reforms in many areas including trade facilitation, customs reform,
financial,sector liberalization, telecom privatization, agriculture and public sector modernization.
The successful privatization of several state enterprises attracted foreign direct investments,
which coupled with strong and steady flows of remittances from Moroccans abroad and tourism
receipts, led to an increase in international reserves (which more than doubled from 4.6 months
of imports in 2000 to 10 months of imports in 2004), successive current account surpluses (since
2001) and banlung liquidity. These reforms would help increase investor confidence and lead to
spurring the growth necessary to address Morocco's poverty and social pressures.

7.      An active debt management strategy has helped reduce current debt payments and the
related interest and exchange rate risks, and increase foreign direct investments. The strategy
resulted in total external public debt steadily decreasing from 34 percent of GDP in 2000 to an
estimated 16 percent in 2004, while domestic debt increased from 42 to 51 percent of GDP over
the same period. The increase of the domestic debt took place in a favorable environment,
without pressurebuildingup on the liquidity in the economy (crowding-out effect), as evidenced
for instance by the steady decrease in interest rates on Moroccan Treasury bonds. The significant
privatization receipts have financed a sizeable share of budget spending, thereby reducing the
financing gap of the central government, and leading to a continuous decrease of the debt to GDP
ratio over the last ten years.

                                                                - 3 -


8.        The principal issues of concern over the medium term relate to the economic rate of
growth, employment, and fiscal sustainability. Accelerating growth will require sustained
macroeconomic stability and completion of an agenda of structural reforms that will increase the
competitiveness of Moroccan businesses.

9.        Economic growth has been volatile and below its long-term potential. The economy has
achieved a growth rate of less than 3.5 percent on average over the last decade, with a promising
4.5 percent in 2001-04, that must be increased to address existing constraints, in particular on the
social front. Growth remains somewhat vulnerable to agriculture, although it represents only 15
percent of GDP. Non-agricultural output has continued to grow, slowly but steadily, at a rate of
3.2 percent, with dynamic contributions from the manufacturing and service sectors such as
tourism and information technology. Lending rates have been declining. The negative impact of
the Multi-Fiber Agreement (MFA) expiration on industrial output, and poor rainfall are projected
to reduce the growth rate to 1.5 percent in 2005.

10.       Morocco has the possibility to accelerate growth, increase employment and reduce
poverty. To this end, it needs to build upon the existing foundations of macroeconomic stability
(including low inflation and a solid external position), and continue with a multi-pronged
structural reform agenda focused on reducing fiscal imbalances, continuing trade liberalization
and opening-up of the economy, expanding the role of the private sector and enhancing its
efficiency, addressing weaknesses in the financial sector and the pension regime, and freeing the
labor market. The exchange rate regime may also need to be adapted to the changing context,
mainly in view of further trade liberalization and in the prospect of eventual capital account
opening inparallel with continued trade liberalization.

11.       The fiscal position has remained stable overall and the authorities have announced their
intention to reduce the budget deficit to 3 percent of GDP in the medium term. However,
excluding privatization receipts and including expenditures of the Hassan IIFundfor Economic
and Social Development, the budget deficits2 amounted to 5.2 percent of GDP over the 2001-04
period, and were financed by proceeds from privatization and domestic borrowings3.The deficits
were due mainly to a rising wage bill (representing about 13 percent of GDP in 2004), and
weaker revenue performance on account of selected import tariff reductions. In 2004, over one
fourth of the fiscal deficit was financed from privatization proceeds that are projected to decline
rapidly as of 2006, which makes fiscal adjustment a priority. To preserve stability over the
medium term, rapid and decisive action i s needed to address budget rigidities, reverse
expansionary payroll spending, and address actual and contingent fiscal liabilities. This would
also create enough fiscal space to cover investments in development priorities. Measures have
already been adopted to this end, mainly through the early retirement program (programme de
dkparts volontaires h la retraite), which is supported by the World Bank. Some 38,500 civil
servants have retired early, and the program i s expected to lead to a significant reduction in the
wage bill over time, while improving the quality and management of civil service.



_____~
*        ~




  All future references to the "budget deficit" will follow this definition.
  Given privatization receipts, the "debt creating" deficit averaged roughly 3 percent during 2001-04.

                                                             - 4 -



 12.      The Base Case scenario foreseen under the 2005-08 CAS assumes a stable
macroeconomic framework under modest growth and partial adjustment. This i s supported by a
 strengthening of medium-term fiscal sustainability, slightly higher national savings ratios, and
 sustained export performance resulting from constant real exchange rates and terms of trade.
Despite declining current account surpluses, tourism receipts and remittances from Moroccans
 abroad would help maintain a sound external position. As privatization proceeds decline,
 multilateral financing and foreign direct investment would play an increased role in filling a
rapidly declining external financing gap. Under this base case, the cumulated financing gap
 would be about US$15 billion over 2005-08, about the same amount considered for the previous
 CAS period. Selected economic indicators for Morocco are provided inTable 1.

Table 1:Selected Macroeconomic
Indicators (%ages)                         Actual                          Est.    Projected
                                           2000   2001     2002    2003    2004    2005   2006      2007   2008   2009
Growth rates (in %)
    RealGDP                                1.0    6.3      3.2     5.5     4.2     1.5     5.0      4.0    4.0
    CAS 01-04forecast                      0.8    8.0      3.4     3.6     3.8
    Realconsumption                        3.0    7.1      0.5     3.6     5.5     2.1     5.2      4.2    3.6
     RealGross DomesticInvestment          7.0    8.0      4.4     7.6     2.8     3.9     7.1      5.6    5.7
    Export Volume, GNFS                    6.4    13.0     8.8     -3.6    12.6    3.4     4.6      5.4    6.2
    CAS 01-04forecast                      -0.8   4.0      6.9     5.7     5.8
    ImportVolume, GNFS                     -0.5   5.7      12.2     15.6   -2.3    6.0     6.5      6.5    6.2
    CAS 01-04forecast                      -2.8   5.5      4.9     5.6     5.9
    GDP deflator                           1.5    1.8      0.6      -0.1   1.5     2.0     2.5      2.0     2.0
Ratios to GDP
    Gross Investment                       23.6   22.9     22.1     24.1   25.0    25.6    26.1     26.4    26.8
    CAS 01-04forecast                      24.5   24.7     25.2     25.4   25.6
    Gross NationalSavings                  22.2   21.6     26.8     21.1   27.3    25.1    26.3     26.3    26.1
    Budget deficit (-)*                    -5.8   -6.3     -4.6     -5.3   -5.0    -6.8**  -4.4      -4.1   -3.8
    CAS 01-04forecast                      -6.4   -7.7     -5.5     -4.3   -3.5
    Direct PublicDebt                      75.6   74.1     11.3     69.2   66.8    71.4    69.5      68.1   66.5
     ExternalCurrent Balance               -1.4   4.1      4.1      3.6    2.2     0.1     0.2       -0.1   -0.1
    CAS 01-04forecast                      -1.6   -1.5     -1.1     -1.0   -1.0
   *) Excl. Privatization receipts and including FH I1for Economic and Social Development expenditures
   **) including one-offnet spending related to the Voluntary Retirement Program and equivalent to 1.7percentof GDP.



                 111.       MOROCCO'S FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMAGENDA

 MAINFINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES

 13.      The Financial Sector Assessment Program, completed in 2002, suggests that, despite
 significant measures and reforms implemented in Morocco to strengthen and modernize the
 financial sector, important challenges still lie ahead. These challenges include improving the
 competitiveness of public banking institutions, developing the insurance and capital markets,

                                                  - 5 -


strengthening the long-term balance of the pension system, modernizing the payments system,
and pursuing the strengthening of the supervisory framework. Geographic coverage in banking
services remains low, with only 18 percent of households holding bank accounts, while access to
financial services for low income groups i s limited. Government still plays an important role in
the sector through direct and indirect control o f a significant share of domestic financial assets, as
the state controls: (i)    five banks, among which the former specialized financial institutions
(former OFS), which accounted for 30.4 percent of total banking sector assets at end 2004; and
(ii) CaissedeDe`ppBtet Gestion(CDG),a non-bank financial institutionwhich plays an
     the
important role through its management of pension fund assets, ownership interests in state-
owned banks, investments in national development projects, and substantial holdings of
government securities. As the main shareholder and creditor of the "Banque Nutionule de
De`veloppementEconomique" and "Cre`dit Immobilier et HpBtelier", the CDG i s playing a major
role in the restructuring of these financial institutions. The restructuring of these institutions will
be undertaken in a transparent way in accordance with market-based policies and mechanisms
that seek to enforce financial discipline.

14.      Moroccan banks need to adopt a more dynamic strategy to withstand better the country's
increasingly competitive and liberalized environment. The importance and urgency of reforms
are compounded by on-going changes - such as the landmark merger of WafaBank and Bunque
Commerciale du Maroc into a combined institution of almost equal size to the "Cre`dit Populaire
du Muroc" (CPM), the Kingdom's largest banking group. In June 2004, the government listed
Banque Centrule Populuire (BCP), following its transformation into a limited company, and
publicly tendered 20 percent of its capital on the Casablanca stock exchange. The operation,
substantially oversubscribed, was a success for the State, the BCP and the Stock Exchange. As a
result, the government's direct share in BCP's capital i s below 50 percent, and a further tender of
at least 15 percent i s foreseen duringthe 2006 fiscal year.

15.      Morocco needs to pursue its drive aimed at strengthening the legal, regulatory and
supervisory framework for the financial sector. It faces challenges interms o f quality of financial
sector infrastructure, and in this regard, needs to improve the efficiency of its payments system,
the transparency of corporate accounting and auditing standards - a critical element for reliable
credit assessmentby lendinginstitutions - and its policies on anti-money laundering and counter-
terrorism financing.

16.     Morocco's banlung system i s characterized by a marked dichotomy between relatively
sound and profitable commercial banks, and some of the government-owned financial
institutions which are, to various degrees, in dire condition. These institutions are the "Banque
Nationale pour le Dkveloppement Economique'' (BNDE), the "Cre`dit Immobilier et Hdtelier"
(CIH),and the "Cre`dit Agricole du Muroc" (CAM)- successor to the "Caisse Nationale de Cre`dit
Agricole" (CNCA). Addressing the outstanding problems of asset quality, and covering fully the
cost of past losses, would necessitate large outlays of public funds, over and above substantial
amounts already transferred to the institutions under various restructuring and rescue plans.
Indeed, between 1998 and 2004, those three financial institutions, as outlined in the following
table, had received about: (i)  DH6.6 billion in direct or indirect transfers from government and
public institutions; and (ii)  DH9 billion in preferential financing consisting of DH 1billion in

                                                  - 6 -


direct Treasury loans, DH4 billion in Treasury-guaranteed loans, and DH4 billion in "directed"
credit facilities from other domestic financial institutions.


                                 Government-ownedFinancialInstitutions
                       Public Transfers& L uidity Su lort  - 1998.DO4 (DHmi Ion)

                                              CZH        CAM       BNDE         Total

              FundsTransfers                  -
                                              2765       - -
                                                         2381       1462        -
                                                                                6608

                Public Shareholders           1565       2381       1462        5408
                Publicborrowers (ERAC)        1200                               1200

              Govt. guaranteeon call          -
                                              1700                              -
                                                                                1700

              LiquiditySupport                -
                                              2444       -
                                                         6576                   -
                                                                                9020

                Treasury Loans                1000                               1000
                Govt. guaranteedLoans         1444       2520                    3964
                CompulsoryBonds                          4056                   4056
             Source :MoroccanTreasury



GOVERNMENTPROGRAM

17.     The authorities have stated their intention to disengage gradually from the financial sector
and foster an enabling environment for the emergence of an efficient, private sector led financial
industry that serves more effectively the country's development and growth objectives. The
government and the Central Bank are moving to improve the legal, regulatory, and supervisory
framework of, and strengthen enforcement capacity in the financial sector. The ongoing
restructuring of the public financial institutions i s a prerequisite to improving, overall, the
sustainability and efficiency of the Moroccan financial sector. In this context, the government
programbuilds on the following three pillars.

        (a) Strengthening the legal, regulatory and supervisoryframework of the financial
             -
        industry

18.     Inthe banking sector, the program is anchored inthe amendment of the Central Bank and
banlung laws, these two laws have recently been approved by Parliament. The implementation of
this new legal framework will provide for the: autonomy of the banking regulator; strengthening
of central bank authority to intervene in troubled banks; and broadening of banking supervision
to institutions, such as CDG, hitherto subject to no regulatory oversight. Extending banking
supervision to the CDG represents a significant step forward that consolidates the various
measures adopted by the authorities over the last years vis-B-vis the CDG. Inthe insurance sector
and capital markets, relevant regulations to strengthen the operating framework have been
prepared or approved. The authorities are also pursuing the liquidation o f five ailing insurance
companies. The last component of this liquidation, both essential and difficult, namely the
realization of the real estate collateral, appears to entail important delays.

                                                - 7 -


        (b) Restructuringthe publicfinancialinstitutions
            -

19.     While the resolution plan for the "Banque Nationale pour le De`veloppement
Economique" i s well on the path of implementation, the remaining challenge for the authorities
relates to both the "Cre`dit Immobilier et Hdtelier" and the "Cre`dit Agricole du Maroc".

20.     (i)-"Banque NationalepourleDkveloppement Economique". BNDEhasbeenlargely
liquidated and its performing assets transferred to CDG or CAM, along a plan based inter-alia on
sustainability analyses commissioned by the European Union (EU).

21.     (ii)"CrCdit ImmobilieretHBtelier". C Misfacedwiththechallenge ofredefiningits
            -
strategy and role in the financial sector, addressing the burden of Non Performing Loans (NPLs)
and rebuilding its capital base. For CIH to operate on a sound and sustained footing, the
shareholders are preparing a detailed action plan for the restructuring of C M and the streamlining
of its core activities. CM's dire financial position i s further compounded by: (i)   the institution's
still limited competitiveness, despite efforts to reduce administrative and funding costs,
compared to other banks which have successfully developed mortgage and housing products; and
(ii)the loss of market share, evidenced by a significant decrease in 2004 in new loans
(resumption of credit activity was evidenced during the first semester of,2005). The design and
success of the ongoing restructuring of C M depend to a large extent on how the losses incurred
since the early 90s will be shared among shareholders. The government, although not a
shareholder, has to bear part of the resolution cost as guarantor of a large non-performing tourism
sector loan portfolio. Given the magnitude of CM's restructuring needs, the main stakeholders
had rightly concluded that a strategic investment by a private bank was worth contemplating in
the context of this restructuring. Discussions to this effect are yet to be finalized.

22.     (iii)"Crkdit AnricoleduMaroc".ThelonglastingrehabilitationofCAMwillrequirean
             -
action plan that addresses the issue of capital adequacy and re-assesses the strategy of the bank,
as the agricultural sector i s to become one among other activities. As a "Socie`te` Anonyme"
(limited company), it i s now possible for C A M to elicit support from new private shareholders.
The restructuring plan under implementation aims at restoring C A M financial situation so it be in
regulatory compliance in 2007. As CAM's capital could not be replenished as needed at the plan
outset, it was granted an exemption (through a ministerial decree in 2002 with a five year-tern)
to give it room to take corrective actions. The plan thus expected the new leadership to instill
more discipline in the management of the bank, improve loan collection, redirect business to
higher-yield activities, and generate operating profit margins eventually allowing the build-up of
capital to the requiredlevels in 2007.

        c) Enhancingthefinancial sector's infrastructure,transparencyandintegrity
           -
23.     Government efforts in this area are devoted to upgrading Morocco's payments system,
strengthening AML-CFT policies, and improving accounting and auditing standards.

24.     (i) - Payments system. On-going reforms, led by the Central Bank, represent important
steps towards a more efficient payments system in addressing three main issues: upgrading the

                                               - 8 -


institutional and legal framework governing electronic payment instruments, and clearing and
settlement systems ;improving the functioning of payment clearing systems and card operations
regarding low value payments; widening access of payment services to banks and financial
institutions' clients; and mitigating systemic risks regarding settlement of large-value financial
transactions. These measures now need to be supported by improvements in the institutional
framework, progress in services to clients and the roll-over of a real-time gross settlement system
(RTGS). The authorities have decided to implement such a system and have chosen a provider,
with a view to having the system operational in2006.

25.      (ii)Auditingandaccounting inthe corporate sector. TheROSCrecentlyconducted
            -
outlined that investors (for listed companies) have a mixed opinion of the quality of information
published in financial statements. The supervisory authorities in the financial sector have been at
the forefront of promoting improvements in financial information. The informal set-up of the
Implementation Committee of the Accounting and Auditing Action Plan stemming from the
ROSC i s a step in the right direction. Regarding accounting standards, the main challenge i s to
mandate the preparation of consolidated financial statements for companies making public
offerings. Several regulations related to the securities market already call for the publication of
consolidated financial statements, but are sometimes difficult to implement and enforce in the
absence of clear accounting norms.

26.      (iii)- Anti-monev laundering (AML) and counter-financing: of terrorism (CFT).
Provisions on CFT have been incorporated in the anti-terrorism law and the banlung regulator
has issued customer due diligence regulations. Morocco, however, still lacks a specific AML
legal framework. A draft law on the fight against money laundering has been prepared and i s
currently being finalized by the authorities.


              IV.     BANKSUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT STRATEGY

OBJECTIVEAND RATIONALE

27.      (i)- Objective. The main development objective of the government financial sector
reform program, and of the proposed loan, i s to strengthen the enabling environment for financial
intermediation and risk management, and to increase private sector role and participation in the
provision of financial services. Work focuses on the stability, sustainability and efficiency of the
financial sector, with a view to enhancing its intermediation capacity and its ability to finance
growth. The Bank strongly supports these reform proposals, which are congruent with the
recommendations of the Financial Sector Assessment Program, and fully consistent with the
World Bank assistance strategy for Morocco to achieve economic growth. The World Bank loan
will support this objective under the operation's three components aimed at: implementing an
effective and modem legal, regulatory and supervisory framework, in line with international
standards, across the banking, insurance, and securities markets so as to improve financial
intermediation and risk-taking behaviors, and foster a more efficient mobilization of savings;
restructuring the public financial institutions particularly in addressing their stock of non-
performing assets, and refocusing their role and activities in the financial sector; and developing

                                                 - 9 -


as needed the financial sector infrastructure, modernizing the payments system, improving the
integrity of the financial sector through better anti-money laundering policies, and enhancing the
quality of financial information inupgrading accounting and auditing standards.

28.      (ii)-Rationale. AmainfocusoftheproposedoperationwillbetherestructuringofCIH
and CAM, which have benefited from periods of regulatory exemption from prudential
requirements. In this regard, compliance would strongly signal the credibility of the regulatory
authority in the context o f the new central bank and banlung laws. Moreover, it would be a
critical signal as to these institutions' ability to operate in a competitive, market-based
environment. The World Bank would thus support the authorities' on-going efforts to strengthen
the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework and develop a modem financial sector
infrastructure. World Bank support would be needed at this juncture to help the government
move forward with the program of financial sector reform especially in what relates to the
institutional and financial restructuring of CIH and CAM. The operation would build upon the
policy dialogue conducted with the authorities in the financial sector most recently in the context
of, and as a follow-up to, the Financial Sector Assessment Program. Of particular relevance i s the
World Bank's long-term involvement in, and comprehensive approach to, financial sector reform
and development in Morocco. The proposed operation would represent a significant step forward
in that respect, in particular given the importance of the signaling effect of a successful
restructuring of CIH and CAM, that would add to the on-going restructuring of the BNDE. The
proposed operation does not intend to, nor can it, address all the challenges facing the Moroccan
financial sector, but seeks to lock in a significant set o f reforms on the most pressing issues and
therefore to pave the way, if the authorities so wish, for World Bank support to subsequent
reforms.

LINKTO CAS

29.      The proposed operation i s consistent with the objectives of the 2005-08 CAS to support
growth-oriented policies and strengthenthe capacity of the financial system in funding corporate
sector activities. By addressing the high level of non-performing loans in public financial
institutions - a weak link within the banking system as a whole - and, in parallel, strengthening
the legal and regulatory environment, the operation will help alleviate a main impediment to a
more efficient functioning of the financial system and its ability to improve financial
intermediation in support of private sector growth. The operation will therefore represent a clear
contribution to the objectives stated in the CAS, and in particular to the achievement under the
first strategic objective to "Improve competitiveness and the investment climate" and more
precisely under the CAS outcome to "Strengthen growth-oriented financial sector". In addition,
the operation will contribute to achieving several governance-related objectives of the CAS, such
as: increased autonomy o f the banking sector supervisor while ending existing conflict of interest
between its supervisory and shareholding roles; extension of banking supervision to CDG,
among others; improvements in the quality of financial information; and adoption of an Anti-
Money Laundering (AML) law.

                                                - 10-


COLLABORATION WITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS

30.    There has been close collaboration between the World Bank and the IMF in Morocco,
particularly in the financial sector. In the context of the FSAP and the IMF Article IV process,
the IMFhas advocated, together with the Bank, a strengthening of the financial sector legal and
regulatory framework, and a restructuring of ailing public financial institutions. The preparation
of the proposed operation has entailed, in particular, close dialogue and coordination with the
IMF which provides technical assistance to the banking supervision department of the Central
Bank.

31.     Of the other donors, the European Union (EU)has been actively involved in the financial
sector over the past few years, and has in particular supported analytical work to identify the
main options for banlung sector restructuring. The EU, which in the context of its "New
Neighborhood Policy" has shifted support to other sectors beyond finance, welcomes the World
Bank assisting the authorities in achieving their financial sector reforms and does not intend to
get involved in that sector in the coming years. The African Development Bank (AfDB) has also
been involved in the Moroccan financial sector, in close coordination with the EU. The AfDB
has expressed interest in further supporting the authorities' reform program in the financial
sector. The LFC, and potentially the European Investment Bank (EIB), are interested in further
involvement in the Moroccan financial sector - as opportunities may arise in the context of
commercial operations. IFC has provided support to the Central Bank in preparing a feasibility
study on the set up of a credit registry.

RELATIONSHIP TO OTHERBANK OPERATIONS

32.     In parallel to this proposed development policy loan, the World Bank i s supporting the
government housing sector policy reforms. A Housing Sector Development Policy Loan was
approved on June 30, 2005. This loan's objectives are to: (i)strengthen the institutional,
regulatory and fiscal environment for a well-functioning housing market and for the emergence
of market-based solutions to the country's housing sector constraints and needs; and (ii)    increase
the access of low-income [and severely disadvantaged] households to more affordable and higher
quality housing. The loan supports these objectives through policy reform and measures to: (i)
modernize urban planning standards and regulations; (ii)      restructure and refocus public sector
housing agencies and enterprises; (iii)  rationalize and simplify real estate taxes and subsidies; (iv)
promote urban slum upgrading and social housing programs through market-friendly approaches;
(v) improve the efficiency of the residential rental market; and (vi) expand the access of informal
sector and low-income households to market-based housing finance. Several of the measures to
be supported would reinforce the objectives of the proposed financial sector operation, given the
role of CIH in housing finance. The on-going work related to Morocco's pension system, in
particular given the links with CDG's activities, was also taken into account in the preparation of
the proposed operation.

                                                - 11-


LESSONSLEARNED

33.     World Bank past involvement in the financial sector in Morocco, such as the FY96
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan or the FY97 Contractual Savings Development Loan, has not
yielded all of its expected results. In particular, the first loan did not achieve the objective of
restructuring of, and state divesture from, C I H and BNDE, while the second did not go as far as
expected in clarifying CDG's role in the collection, administration and allocation of financial
resources of the pension system and savings banks. Past World Bank involvement has in
particular been less successful with reforms focusing on leveling the playing-field between the
public and the private financial institutions and on promoting reduced state ownership. One key
lesson stemming from the Financial Sector Adjustment operation i s the importance of: (i)   dealing
with the issue o f non-performing loans and recognizing up-front the full economic costs of
restructuring; and (ii)promoting radical changes in credit allocation policies by the restructured
banks. Extended periods of regulatory forbearance are not a rigorous and sustainable way to
restructuring.

34.     Against this background, and regarding the CDG, the authorities' present emphasis
focuses on the extension of supervisory oversight to this entity's banking related activities. With
regard to CM, assessing the true financial position, settling non-performing loans of public
entities, honoring the State guarantee of loans extended by C M in the tourism sector, and
rebuilding the capital base are pre-requisites to a definitive restructuring of the bank that should
lead to opening the capital to a strategic partner. Inthe same vein, the need for the government to
recognize that CAM's problems ought to be tackled as soon as possible i s all the more crucial as
this bank may face further stress as a result of a likely deterioration of many small farmers'
creditworthiness due to recent unfavorable weather conditions. One key element of the World
Bank dialogue with the authorities has therefore been the insistence on clear actions on these pre-
requisites, and in particular the central objective of restoring compliance o f both C M and C A M
with prudential requirements as soon as possible. The design of the proposed operation in two
tranches (para.63) aims at ensuring that the medium-term components of the reform package are
implemented.

35.     Beyond financial sector issues, the CAS completion report for FY 01/04 points to several
recommendations which were taken into account in the preparation of the proposed operation.
The institutional capacity of the banking and insurance supervisors to implement the component
of the reform program related to the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework will be key to
success. Both have already prepared detailed action plans and have launched the drafting of the
bulk of the regulations reflectedin the policy matrix. One key issue for success is related to the
strengthening of the capacity of these institutions to implement the new legal, regulatory and
supervisory framework, and will be closely monitored during project supervision. The
preparation of these regulations has progressed significantly.

ANALYTICALUNDERPINNINGS

36.     The Financial Sector Assessment Program has provided a strong underpinning to the
design of the proposed operation. In addition, the accounting and auditing ROSC and prior

                                               - 12-



studies (such as insurance market development, and EU bank restructuring analyses) were used
to help design sub-components of the proposed reform program.


   V.      THE PROPOSEDFINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN

OPERATIONDESCRIPTION

37.     The proposed development policy loan would support the authorities' actions in moving
forward under the program of financial sector reforms namely in: (i)        improving the legal,
regulatory and supervisory framework for the financial industry; (ii)    restructuring the public
financial  institutions; and (iii)strengthening financial sector infrastructure. Successful
implementation of the operation would yield a substantially improved financial sector framework
and infrastructure, and more resilient public financial institutions. The three proposed
components, consistent with the operation's development objective, are reviewed in the
following sections.

        A Enactment of new banking legislation, and implementationof an enhanced
          -
regulatory and supervisory framework inthe banking, insuranceand securities sector

38.     This component would include the drafting and issuance of executive regulations
pursuant to the new banlung legislation - Statutes of the Central Bank, and new Banlung Law.
Strengthening of the financial sector regulatory and supervisory bodies would entail the
following:

39.     (i)- Banlungregulationandsupervision. Supervisory capacity wouldbestrengthened,
and the main existing prudential regulations will be revised to be in conformity with the new
legislation. Consolidated supervision of related entities will be introduced, and steps taken
towards the adoption of Basle IIcapital standards (the IMFhas been providing technical support
to the Central Bank on this issue). Extension of supervisory oversight to CDG's banking
activities will be a specific condition for the second tranche. The Central Bank has begun the
drafting of related regulations and will soon be ready to proceed accordingly. It has also prepared
an Action Plan to strengthen its own capacity to implement the new regulatory framework.

40.     (ii)Insuranceregulationandsupervision. Thequalityandautonomyofinsurancesector
            -
regulation, which remains within the Ministry of Finance, will be enhanced. Insurance
supervision would be brought into compliance with IAIS standards. In this regard, several
implementing regulations for the recently approved new Insurance Code have already been
enacted. One key implementing regulation, which includes the new requirements on the
diversification and valorization of assets, solvency requirements, calculation of technical
provisions and recourse to reinsurance, has been finalized and will be a condition for the first
tranche. Revised accounting standards for the insurance sector, anticipated in the above
mentioned implementing regulation, have also been finalized and are ready for endorsement by
the National Accounting Council - and are a condition for the first tranche. Inthe context of their
on-going efforts to modernize the insurance sector, the authorities have also launched the

                                               - 1 3 -


preparation of a new regulatory framework for the insurance of labor accidents, natural disaster
and political risks.

41.      (iii)Securities marketregulationandsupervision. Thelegalframeworkinthisareais
             -
broadly in line with international standards, especially following the recent adoption of six new
laws. The objective will therefore be to finalize and implement the revamping of the legal
framework on such outstanding issues as the draft law on collective management schemes, and
the measures needed to incorporate all IOSCO principles. The supervisory powers of the
regulator have been expanded to include control of the Securities Exchange, the central
depository (Maroclear), in particular with compliance to their norms and operational rules. The
oversight has been expanded also to promoters of mutual funds (OPCVM), securitization
companies and private equity companies. The surveillance and investigative powers have been
reinforced. In particular, the Conseil De`ontologique des Vuleurs Mobilibres (CDVM) i s able to
investigate in any location and obtain subpoenas for individuals whose activities are questionable
with respect to financial regulations. Guidelines about how to deal with insider information have
been issued. The system of sanctions for violations of regulations has been modified to provide
for a greater range and gradualism of penalties. Licensing of OPCVMs i s now given by the
CDVM and not the Minister of Finance. The mechanism of licensing however i s still focused on
the mutual fund product and not the company and the individuals which promote and manage
such a product. Nevertheless, new rules have been set up regarding the oversight of the mutual
funds companies with an array of disciplinary and pecuniary sanctions. The protection of
minority shareholders has been strengthened through a new law about public offerings.
Statements are clear about take-over bids, initial public offerings, and withdrawal public
offerings ensuring transparency, integrity and fairness. The CDVM has oversight powers for
public offerings and it was given pecuniary sanctions in case o f breach. In addition, there are
judicial sanctions. The supervision body was also given adequate powers to define detailed
norms for the application of regulations through circulars that have legal force. These circulars
should be in compliance with international standards and issued after a broad consultation. With
a broader scope of supervision, the resources of CDVM in terms of staff and information
technology need to be increased, and steps have already been taken in that regard. However, the
current institutional status of CDVM implies that it has not yet been granted full autonomy
insofar as budget execution i s concerned. Giving CDVM a real autonomy in that respect i s
therefore crucial, especially to ensure that CDVM i s properly equipped to undertake the needed
on-site inspections, on financial integrity (insider trading, false information, mishandling of
quotation) and on brokerage firms.

         B Restructuring of state-ownedspecializedfinancial institutions
           -
42.      The Restructuring of the state-owned specialized financial institutions i s a focus and a
main challenge of the proposed operation. As regards BNDE, the institutional restructuring plan
i s fairly advanced, with mechanisms set up to absorb the losses. CM's restructuring i s now
proceeding as part of a scheme which would involve an investment by a private strategic partner
- although conditions related to such a partner's entry are yet to be finalized. CAM's
restructuring now calls for decisive and refocused shareholder and management actions to
address the challenges recently identified. While this operation would not entail detailed

                                                - 14-


conditions attached to CAM's restructuring plan, it would focus on the objective of restoring
compliance with prudential requirements in 2007. The World Bank loan will also entail no
conditions related to the on-going restructuring (liquidation) of BNDE which i s well underway.
The following sections review inmore detail the restructuring programs of the three institutions.

         (a) Cr6ditImmobilieret H8telier
            -

43.      At the end of 2003, the CIH had a negative net worth of DH 1.1 billion. The general
assembly of the shareholders has decided to maintain the activity of the CIH, discarding the
optional liquidation- an option the World Bank had recommended that it be carefully assessed.
In light of this decision, the CIH has committed itself to restoring a positive net worth by
December 31St,2005. In addition, CIH has a stock of non-performing loans, estimated at DH 1.7
billion, which are guaranteed by the State. This stock of NPL's i s included in the net NPL's
portfolio estimed at DH 5.3 billion at the end of 2004. Several important actions over the recent
past provide evidence of government commitment to the restructuring process, including the
government assumption of the arrears of the public urban development entities (ERACs) and its
support to the definitive settlement of the claims on the national power company (Office National
d'Electricit6) and other public entities in arrears towards the CIH. The restructuring process i s
moving forward along the following four-step approach:

44.      (i)- Future role of CM. The World Bank has agreed with the authorities that a
restructured, market-based, C M would mainly redirect its activities to the financing of low-cost
housing. The entry of a strategic shareholder will be a critical market-test to provide comfort as
to the sustainability of the C I H business strategy, in a context where other leading financial
institutions have recently stepped up their role inthe housing sector.

45.      (ii)Resolutionofnon-performingloans,acriticalstepoftherestructuringplan.Claim
            -
recovery efforts should be brought to bear inprompting a first phase of negotiationsbetween CIH
and large delinquent borrowers. This phase should take place within a specified timeframe to
ensure momentum. Where negotiations are not conclusive, there would be a need to launch the
required legal proceedings to allow C I H to take effective ownership of loan underlying
collaterals, improve asset recovery and realize guarantees. Although the authorities acknowledge
the need to relieve C M from the burden of non-performing assets, so as to focus management
attention on future activities, the specific scheme that would be used to address the stock of
NPLs i s yet to be defined. One solution could be for the NPLs to be carved out of CIH's balance
sheet and transferred into an ad hoc company. Given the need to build on C M expertise in the
hotel and real estate sectors, so that this expertise can be used in resolving problem loans, the
preferred option in this context would be to set up a dedicated Asset Management Corporation
(AMC) as a subsidiary of CIH. To this effect a clear separation would have to be made between
performing and non-performing assets. Alternatively, the new investor may accept keeping these
impaired assets in CM's accounts provided that adequate safeguards are set up. In conclusion,
this technical issue will be sorted out in the context of the restructuring of the CIH and in
particular the rebuilding of its capital base.

                                                 - 15 -



46.     (iii)Ownershipandgovernancestructure.Theoperationshouldhelppromotemeasures
             -
and decisions supportive of the broader policy approach of reducing government ownership in
the financial sector. Public participation in CIH currently stands at almost 70 percent. The on-
going restructuring should lead to a financial strengthening of the C M and a refocusing of its
activity allowing over time to reduce public ownership through the opening of its capital. In the
short run, the Central Bank (which holds 12.96 percent of the capital of CIH) i s required, per its
new Statutes, to relinquish its shareholding, while the BCP, which owns more than 20.23 percent
of the capital, has sold its participation to CDG. The CDG, as the largest shareholder (57.55
percent of the capital with its recent acquisition of BCP and Central Reinsurance Company
shares (2.01 percent)) in C M , plays a lead role in the restructuring process. Given the magnitude
of CM's restructuring needs, the main shareholders have agreed to strengthen the governance
structure in order to set up genuine risk and market-based decision-malung processes in CM, in
particular as far as lending and investment decisions are concerned. One leading foreign bank has
expressed interest in acquiring an equity position in C M and playing a central role in the revival
of the bank including shoring up its financial position and building up its risk management
capacity. This would be a promising step, giving a clear signal that the increase in private sector
participation in the financial sector i s on track, even if the resulting ownership structure i s likely
to translate in CDG holding a larger stake at least during a few years.

47.     (iv) - Burden-sharing arrangements regarding the economic costs of CIH restructuring.
Agreement to this effect i s being finalized between shareholders and government. During the
August 2005 shareholders' Extraordinary General Assembly, the following decisions were
adopted: (i)  affect the reserves (more than DH 400 million) to cover the remaining losses; (ii)
absorb the losses by reducing the bank's capital base from DH3.3 billion to DH332 million by a
reduction of 90 percent of the number of shares (one new share for 10 former ones); and (iii)
increase capital by DH 1.850 billion, through a subscription of new shares open to the current
shareholders, with a view to restoring a positive net worth.

As far as the government guarantees associated with CIHtourism sector loans are concerned, the
CIH submits that the ensuing government's liability amounts to DH 1.7 billion. As the guarantee
provided i s of last resort, the Treasury considers that calling it would suppose that all related
pledges should first be realized. In addition, the guarantees should be called on a case by case
basis. A transaction agreement i s currently under finalization, which would imply that the
Treasury would take over an amount of DH 1 billion in final settlement. The C I H shareholders
have accepted this solution. Regardless of the conditions under which the burden-sharing will
take place, the State will de facto bear the bulk of the overall cost directly or indirectly since the
largest two shareholders (CDG and BAM) all belong to the public sector. Government
contribution also entails close DH 1.2 billion transferred to the state-owned housing companies
(ERACs) through a capital increase in the context o f their restructuring and preparation to
become subsidiaries of the A1 Omrane Planning Holding, which allowed them to repay their
outstanding debt to C M for an amount close to DH 0.66 billion. In the same vein, discussions
with other public sector entities have led to agreed memoranda of understanding for a definitive
settlement of their arrears towards CIH, in an amount o f DH 1.450 billion. All these steps will
allow for a better value for the CIH in the context of the opening of its capital, and would

                                               - 16-



generate a goodwill that could be paid by the new investor, which could somehow alleviate the
cost to be borne by each current shareholder.

        (b) CrQditAgricole duMaroc
            -

48.     Crkdit Agricole du Maroc (CAM) i s a 100 percent state-owned bank originally
established to provide financing to the agricultural sector in support of government's sectoral
policies. Due to Morocco's unstable hygrometry, the bank i s periodically faced with arrears on
farmers loans, as their activities are negatively affected by weather conditions (mainly small
farmers in non-irrigated zones), often leading to the rescheduling of the related portfolio. Given
the magnitude o f losses over the years and the socio-economic importance of the sector, the
government has provided support in the form of guarantee or relief to farmers. Thus between
1998 and 2004, the government's support amounted to DH 2.5 billion in guarantees of CAM's
borrowings. Despite government efforts, CAM's financial position has been weakened as not all
of these losses could be passedon to the government.

49.     C A M has been proceeding with a restructuring plan to address structural weaknesses and
enhance its operations and finances. Under the plan initiated in 2002, the government changed
CAM's legal status into a "Socie`te` Anonyme" (limited company) malung it possible to open up
capital to private investors. In addition, several measures that will strengthen CAM's financial
position have been recently approved. They mainly consist of the acquisition of B M A O and of
the transfer of the bulk of the BNDE network to CAM, a move expected to increase CAM's
capacity to collect savings and to.reduce the cost of its resources. The newly appointed
management devised a strategy to shift part of CAM's traditional activities towards more
profitable customers within the agricultural sector (e.g. corporate) but also in other sectors. The
medium to long-term objective of C A M i s to reduce the share of agriculture in the bank loan
portfolio to around 30 percent from the current 60 percent level.

50.     The 2002 plan foresaw that C A M would be in a position, by June 2007, to comply with
prudential rules related inter-alia to provisioning levels and regulatory capital. C A M however
recently recognized that a share of the healthy portfolio would need to be classified as non-
performing, and has yet to enforce fully Central Bank regulations on loan classification and
provisioning (as a result of which DH 2.5 billion in additional provisions may be needed).
Furthermore, a balance sheet category in an amount of DH 1.5 billion, listed as "other assets",
may need to be assessed more thoroughly to ensure that it i s free from potential losses. To
address the evolving situation, management has outlined a revised action plan to put back C A M
on a sound and sustainable path, and which, contrary to initial expectations: (i)   would have to
rely on support from its shareholder and other partners; and (ii)    could involve the issuance of
subordinated debt to strengthen regulatory capital. A provisional road map outlined at a recent
meeting (April 11, 2005) of C A M Board - headed by the Prime Minister - put forth the
following option to shore up CAM's financial standing:

51.     (i)Capitalreplenishmentbythe government, soleexistingshareholder.TheTreasury
           -
seems to be leaning towards a recapitalization of C A M up to DH 1 billion, that would be
disbursed over a three-year period, in the context of a "program agreement" specifying the

                                                   17 -


restructuring measures to be implemented by C A M - including the entry o f new investors in
C A M capital, mainly to ensure sustainability.

52.     (ii)- OpeningUPcapital to privateinvestors. The legal statusenactedin2003 allows
C A M to offer up to 49.9 percent of its capital to new shareholders, with no single shareholder
holding more than 10 percent of the overall capital - a provision which may be viewed as a
constraint to a shareholder's ability to influence key institutional and operational decisions.
Based on current management estimates, CAM's capital base would reach only DH0.5 billion in
2007, which would fall short of the level required for compliance with capital adequacy
regulation by approximately DH 1.5 billion.

53.     (iii)- Subordinated debt scheme. CAM has requested that the current compulsory
revolving funding facility (DH4 billion) that all banks hadto extend to C A M (the so-called "bons
CNCA" - CNCA bonds) be converted into a subordinated debt, which can then be counted as
part of Tier-2 capital so as to buttress CAM's capital base. Indeed, per ministerial decree, all
banks had to provide liquidity support to C A M through the purchase of CAM's, government-
guaranteed, bond issues. Banks would be asked to subscribe voluntarily to the proposed debt
subordination scheme.

54.     CAM's road map, notwithstanding its anticipated positive impact, needs to reflect the
following: (i) CAM's projections are based on aggressive assumptions that CAMwould generate
DH1.5 billion in earnings (before amortization and provisions) over the next three years, which
represents almost twice the earnings generated between 2002 and 2004; (ii)         CAM should better
account for uncertainties which could lead to an upward revision of the capital gap; for that
purpose the World Bank suggested that C A M should run sensitivity analyses with a view to
increasing government's awareness about various scenarios; (iii)      C A M should take due account
of the fact that converting the liquidity support to C A M into Tier-2 capital i s contingent upon the
replenishment o f capital by the government andor new shareholders, as the regulatory
computation of capital in Morocco does not allow Tier-2 to exceed half of the Tier-1 capital; (iv)
some Moroccan banks may not subscribe to CAM's subordinated debt, since subscription of
Tier-2 capital issued by a bank translates in an equivalent deduction from the subscriber's own
capital (double-counting of capital); and (v) the ongoing growth of CAM's balance sheet, which
entails the build-up of risks, should not continue if the restoration of the capital base were again
postponed. Indeed CAM's growing activity i s largely funded by additional interest bearing sight
deposits, which could eventually lead to further difficulties for the bank. CAM would also have
to re-assessthe quality and reliability of its IT system architecture and modus operandi.

55.     In this context, the World Bank has recommended the conclusion of a "program
agreement" between the government and CAM. Inaddition, the World Bank has advised that the
mission of public interest ("mission de service public") vis-&vis the agricultural sector
incumbent upon the C A M be the subject of a Memorandum of Understanding between C A M and
the government.

                                                - 18-


        (c) Banque Nationale de DCveloppementEconomique
             -
56.     The restructuring plan of BNDE has been proceeding along a two-track approach which
involved the government, CDG and CAM. Under the plan, CDG took over BNDE, and launched
an in-depth review of the portfolio; it recognized the accumulated losses and wrote down capital
accordingly. Part of BNDE's branch network and the performing share of the loan portfolio were
sold to CAM. The government and CDG, as shareholders, agreed at the outset on a burden-
sharing formula whereby the government would cover 70 percent of the restructuring costs
against 30 percent for CDG.

57.     BNDEhas a negative net worth of DH 1.3 billion. Non-performing loans are inthe range
of DH4.7 billion against which DH3.1 billion in provisions have been set. There i s still DH1.2
billion in BNDE's accounts, which are being transferred to CAM, leaving de facto BNDE as a
recovery entity for non-performing assets. BNDE's management has publicly announced its
willingness to engage in negotiations with creditworthy debtors to conclude restructuring plans
"in the shadow of the law". Thus far the cost of BNDE's liquidation, including losses not yet
realized, i s estimated at DH2.8 billion, out of which DH2 billion have been financed so far.

58.     In parallel, BMAO, a subsidiary of BNDE, was taken over by CAM. The transfer to
B M A O of the domestic branch network bought from the BNDE i s completed. C A M intends to
recapitalize B M A O inthe coming months with a view to merging it with C A M as required by the
prudential authorities.

C Enhancement of the financial sector's infrastructure, transparency and integrity
   -
59.     (i)- Modernizationof thepayments system. The mainobjectives areto: improve the
regulatory framework, the national coverage and the efficiency of processing for all payment
instruments; reduce the time lag for the settlement of payment operations and in particular "out
of station" checks by introducing check imaging and electronic transfers technology; process new
electronic payment instruments such as credit orders and standing debit orders, in the national
Interbank Telecompensation System ("SystBme Znterbancaire de T616compensation") replacing
paper-based methods; and install a Real Time Settlement System (RTGS) to settle large value
financial operations in a secure environment (systemic risk free).

60.     (ii)Improvementinthetransparencvandintegrityofthefinancialsystem.Theproposed
             -
operation would support progress in this area through improvements in the quality of financial
information and the development of tools to fight against money laundering and terrorism
financing. Regarding AML, the authorities have made strides over the last months in preparing a
draft AML law (cf. par. 26) and are aware of the importance for Morocco to quickly adopt a legal
framework in line with international standards. In addition, they have the intention to take steps
in defining the role and administrative status of the financial intelligence unit set forth in this
draft law.

61.     (iii)- Upgrading of accounting and auditing standards. The operation will support
improvements in the Moroccan accounting and auditing framework and the development of a

                                             - 19-


financial information registry, thereby fostering market discipline and monitoring. This
component will build on the ROSC on accounting and auditing, with a view to foster Morocco's
compliance with international norms and standards (IFRS standards), focusing on companies
making public offerings and consolidation of financial statements. A draft law aimed at requiring
public companies and institutions to prepare and disclose consolidated financial statements has
been submitted to Parliament. The authorities have confirmed their commitment to adopt the
IFRS standards and set up consolidation of financial statements, in particular for companies
making public offerings.

LOANAMOUNT AND TRANCHING

62.     The proposed loan would be in an amount of US$200 million equivalent, with two
tranches. The first tranche in the amount of US$130 million equivalent would be disbursed
following Board approval, which will be conditional on the realization of specific reforms. The
disbursement of the second tranche in the amount of US$70 million equivalent will depend upon
the fulfillment o f a detailed set of measures. The attached draft policy matrix lays out the
proposedconditions for each tranche.

63.     The proposed structure of the operation, in two tranches, reflects the World Bank's and
the authorities' assessment that the proposed reform program represents a consistent and self-
reinforcing package to be implemented over a 12to 18-month timeframe. Inthis context, the first
tranche aims at locking in as soon as possible a set of irreversible policy measures and at
supporting the reform momentum. The second tranche conditions encompass measures which
require more time for preparation and will deepen the structural changes. The project team's and
the authorities' preference for a two-tranches operation instead of two successive one-tranche
ones also stems from the attention being paid in the operation to embed the banks' restructuring
agenda into a coherent move by the authorities towards increasing private participation into the
C M .

POLICYAREAS

64.     The main policy area of the proposed operation i s financial sector development.


                          VI.    OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

POVERTYAND SOCIALIMPACTS

65.     The Social Safeguard policy pertaining to Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) does
not apply to this operation.

66.     The operation's objective to improve efficiency of the financial sector will have a direct
and positive impact on growth. In addition, the operation i s expected to improve access to
finance, including in rural areas. The operation has been prepared following extensive
discussions with market participants from all pillars of the financial sector and professional

                                              - 20 -


associations, as well as with the Steering Committee for the Accounting and Auditing Action
Plan resulting from the Accounting and Auditing ROSC.

SUPERVISION

67.    The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank will be the two entities responsible for
overall implementation of the proposed operation and for reporting progress and coordinating
actions among other concerned agencies, including the capital market authority. As regards the
outcomes of the policy reforms, the World Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the
implementation of the proposed operation. At the same time, the overall status of the
government's program will be monitored during supervision to determine whether the specific
conditions of the proposed operation have changed. Supervision missions will allow the World
Bank to continue the policy dialogue with the institutions involved in the implementation of the
program of reform. It will also ensure the deployment of staff and consultants able to advise the
government in all of the policy and technical areas involved inthe reforms.

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

68.     A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was conducted in 2003. The
main conclusion of the CFAA i s that the Moroccan public financial management system i s
characterized by a good level of transparency and accuracy and backed by a strong ministry of
finance which has an extensive treasury network in the country. The CFAA also assessed the
overall PFM risk as low, yet pointed out areas of higher risk stemming from excessively long
payment delays, especially in the area of transfers to local governments which are inadequately
deconcentrated, making it difficult to see how these funds are allocated and used. This particular
project financial management risk does not affect the operation since the resources would be
disbursed in two tranches against fulfillment of a set of measures and managed at the central
level.

69.     The Moroccan Public Financial Management system is characterized by long
implementation delays. The system of control i s comprehensive (internal, external, ex-ante, and
ex-post) but requires further co-ordination and modernization in order to provide performance-
based audit and add value. The integrated computerization of the system is on-going and
expected to be effective in 2006. A number of reforms are underway in the areas of public sector
integrated accounting information system, performance based-budgeting, decentralization and
de-concentration, internal control and civil service reform. These are expected to modernize and
improve substantially the public sector management and its performance.

DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING

70.    The proposed loan will follow the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for policy
development operations. The approved tranches will be disbursed against satisfactory
implementation of the development policy program and will not be linked to any specific
purchases, and no procuremerlt requirements will be needed.

                                                - 21 -



71.     As Morocco has not been under IMFprogram for several years, no safeguard assessment
of the Central Bank has been undertaken by the IMF.The World Bank knowledge of the Central
Bank fiduciary capacity was compiled during the 2003 CFAA discussions with the Treasury of
the Kingdom on the treasury single account management and the debt accounting and reporting
systems by the Central Bank. Treasury appearedsatisfied with the Central Bank performance and
didnot raise any serious concerns to call for a specific assessment.Against this background, once
the loan i s approved by the Board and becomes effective, the proceeds of the first tranche in the
amount of US$130 million equivalent will be deposited by IBRDin an account designated by the
Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank at the Central Bank of Morocco at the request of the
Borrower. The proceeds of the second tranche in the amount of US$70 million equivalent will
be deposited after all the conditions of the second tranche release are met.

72.     Ifthe proceeds of the loan are usedfor ineligible purposes as defined inthe Development
Loan Agreement, IBRD will require the Borrower to promptly upon notice refund an amount
equal to the amount of said payment to IBRD. Amounts refundedto the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled. The administration of this loan will be the responsibility of the Central Bank.

ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

73.     Since this proposed operation i s a Development Policy Lending (or DPL) it falls under
the recently approved OP/BP 8.6. As the operation i s not expected to have significant
environmental effect, according to OP/BP 8.6, safeguard policies (such as OP4.01 Environmental
Impact Assessment) do not apply to development policy lending, and an Integrated Safeguard
Data Sheet (ISDS) i s not needed. The policies supported by the proposed adjustment loan are not
likely to have any significant direct effects on the environment and natural resources. Inaddition,
the indirect impacts that the DPL i s likely to have on the environment are difficult to predict but
are expected to be marginal.

MONITORINGAND EVALUATION

74.     In addition to the monitoring of the macroeconomic framework of the program agreed
between the two parties, the impact of this program will also be monitored through the following
focused set of indicators:

    (i)Levelofbankprovisioningofnon-performingloans
    (ii)ShareofStateownershipinthebanlungsector
    (iii)Numberofcompaniespreparingconsolidatedauditedfinancialstatements
    (iv) Number and amount of new life insurance contracts
    (v)   Other

RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION

75.     At the global level, one risk could be that social and political opposition would weaken
government resolve to pursue the macroeconomic reform program. To mitigate such a risk, the
macroeconomic program will be monitored closely and the government and the World Bank will

                                                - 22 -


consult on further actions, if required, to maintain the economy on a sustainable path. Moreover,
many measures under the financial sector reform program are centered on changes in the legal,
regulatory and supervisory framework, which require no large public outlays, or on technological
improvements, such as those pertaining to the payments system, where large private sector
operators would be sharing in the investment costs. The other risks associated with this
component relate to the authorities' ability to finalize the legal texts within the operation's
timeframe and more importantly to enforce the strengthened legal framework. These risks will be
mitigated through the preparation of all regulations over the operation's timeframe (as reflected
inthe policy matrix) andby supporting inter-alia through ongoingtechnical assistance from other
donors, the banlung and insurance supervisors' on-going efforts to implement their action plans.
Finally, the other development partners, in particular the European Union, have indicated their
support to the objectives of the proposed operation (the preparation of which did draw on
analyses commissioned by the European Union) despite their decision to redirect support to other
sectors beyond finance. The restructuring of the public financial institutions does however entail
large fiscal outlays; the associatedrisks are discussed below.

76.     (i)Government commitmentto CIHrestructuring. Thepoliticaldecisionto address
            -
forcefully the issue of non-performing loans i s a necessary step central to the success of the
reform program. The issues at stake have now been under debate for a long time. The main risks
going forward could be a path of reform that would not allow for a genuine change towards
market-based, risk-taking business patterns in the state-owned banking institutions (moral hazard
issue). The risks are in part mitigated by the authorities' willingness to submit the C M business
plan to a "market test", as one important foreign bank i s interested in taking a strategic 35
percent stake in CM, and i s conducting intensive discussions with C M to this effect. A positive
outcome in this regard will provide an important policy signal. The World Bank has engaged in
detailed discussions with the authorities on the key policy orientations pertaining to C M
restructuring and ownership and governance structure, in particular through a detailed letter to
the Prime minister outlining the options available and the related decisions that, in the World
Bank's view, would need to be made. Regarding vested interests, the World Bank stressed the
importance that the burden sharing of the restructuring costs be agreed ex-ante, thereby providing
incentives to the government - given the potential fiscal implications (see below) - to press
connected delinquent borrowers into clearing their arrears towards the CM.

77.     (ii)Government commitmenttoCAMrestructuring.AsCAMisastate-ownedentity,
            -
the government, as sole shareholder, will have a key role to play in its restructuring and in
ensuring that the objective of restoring compliance with prudential requirements in 2007 is
achieved. Late recognition by the authorities of the extent of the remaining problems in CAM,
coupled with significant demands on the authorities' budget (including the fiscal costs of C M
and BNDE restructuring), represent a noticeable risk going forward. A strong commitment from
the only shareholder of CAM i s essential to the success of the revised restructuring plan. The
operation aims therefore at locking in from the outset the main features of CAM's restructuring
plan, along the lines described in paras. 48-55, and the commitment by the shareholder to
shoulder its responsibilities - as laid out inthe letter of development policy.

                                                 - 23 -


78.     (iii)FiscalCosts.TherehabilitationofC Mwillhavedefiniteandrelativelylargefiscal
             -
costs (even though the government holds no direct ownership in C M ) since the state had
provided guarantees to C M covering its loans inthe tourism sector. As far as CAMi s concerned,
the restoration o f the capital base in line with prudential requirements i s most likely to entail the
need for funding from the government, unique shareholder, even in the scenario of an entry of
new shareholders. The likely budget impact also calls for careful attention to the transparency of
the restructuringmechanism.

79.     (iv) - Role of the iudiciaw. The role of the judicial system in the recovery of loans and
realization of collateral values and guarantees will be crucial (this should follow the period of
extra-judiciary negotiations between banks and borrowers). Experience so far has been mixed.
The on-going ROSC on insolvency and creditor rights i s likely to confirm that if Morocco's legal
framework i s broadly in line with international best practices, its implementation still presents
important pitfalls. To mitigate as much as possible the associated risks, the Project team has
raised the issue with the authorities and emphasized the need for a strong political signal from the
outset, inwhich the mobilization and association of the Justice Ministry would be essential.

                                                   - 24 -


ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY


Unofficial Translation


KINGDOMOFMOROCCO
Ministry of Finance and Privatization

The President of the World Bank
1818 HStreet, NW
Washington, D C 20433




                                FinancialSector Development Policy Loan

                                       Letter of Development Policy


Mr.President,

         Since the early 1990s, the Kingdom of Morocco has been engaged in a process of thorough
modernization of its financial sector. As a result of the government's resolve and the dynamism of the
private sector, significant progress has been made. Inaddition, the government has implemented one of
the main conditions for a modem financial system by according greater autonomy and authority to the
Central Bank, particularly in setting monetary policy and banking supervision, as well as expanded
authority and additional resources to the other regulatory and supervisory entities.

1.       Characteristics of the financial sector

The banking sector plays an important role in the financial sector as a whole. Although the banking
sector in the Kingdom of Morocco is, in general, well-established, sound, and profitable, a number of
public financial institutions, namely, the Banque Nationale pour le De'veloppement Economique
(BNDE), the Cre'dit Zmmoblier et Hdtelier (CM), and the Cre'dit Agricole du Maroc (CAM) are still
experiencing financial difficulties, although to varying degrees.       In this regard, the government is
determined to complete the restructuringprocess of these institutions by finding structural solutions to
remedy this situation.

The government i s also seeking to encourage competition and innovation within the banking sector, in
order to ensure that Moroccan banks are equipped to face the country's increasingly competitive and
liberalized environment.

Although noteworthy strides have been made with respect to the development of capital markets, the
financial sector authorities are aware of the fact that institutional savings remain weak. Life insurance
and other forms of long-term savings, although higher than in other countries of the region, have not yet
gained broad public appeal. In addition, only a small percentage of the working population participates
inretirement plans.

                                                   - 25 -


2.       Government's strategy

The government intends to pursue fully its efforts aimed at disengaging gradually from the financial
sector, strengthening the role of the private sector, and fostering an enabling environment for the
emergence of an efficient financial system that is better suited to Morocco's growth and development
objectives.

Morocco i s committed, in particular, to strengthening the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework of
the financial sector as a whole.

Inthis regard, the Government of Morocco paid close attention to the analyses and recommendations of
the 2002 Financial Sector Assessment Program, which pinpointedthe weaknesses and deficiencies of the
financial sector. As a result, the government took steps which led, among other things, to greater
competition, to the modernization of the legal and regulatory framework of the financial sector, to efforts
to reestablish balance within the pension system, and to the launching of a process aimed at modernizing
the payments system. In addition, it made a commitment to the transparent restructuring of troubled
public financial institutions and to placing them within market mechanisms, in order to ensure a more
efficient allocation of public resources.

The main priorities for the Kingdom of Morocco with respect to financial sector reformare therefore: (i)
enhancing the efficiency of financial sector intermediation; (ii) strengthening the financial sector's legal,
regulatory, and supervisory framework; (iii)   restructuringpublic financial institutions and streamlining
their role in the financial system; and (iv) reforming the retirement system, with a view to ensuring its
sustainability .

The Kingdom of Morocco will also continue its efforts to improve the infrastructure of the financial
sector in order to enhance the efficiency of the payments system, improve the quality of corporate
accounting and financial information, and improve auditing standards - critical elements for reliable
credit assessmentby banks and capital markets - and step up efforts to fight against money laundering.

3.       Government's Program of Action

Important measures have been adopted by the government to improve the financial sector's legal,
regulatory, and supervisory framework. In addition, the Moroccan Government i s making the public
financial institution restructuring exercise, currently under way, the centerpiece of its efforts to enhance
the sustainability and efficiency of the Moroccan financial sector.            Against that backdrop, the
government's programof action is supported by the following three pillars:

 (a) Strengthening the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework of the financial sector

 To that end, the government has already:

 -   Amended the bylaws of the Central Bank and the Banking Law - the two legal texts were recently
      approved by Parliament. The application of this new legal framework provides in particular for
      autonomy in setting monetary policy and in banking supervision; strengthening of Central Bank
      authority to intervene in troubled banks; and broadening of banking supervision to such institutions
      as the CDG, the financial services of Burid Al-Mughrib - the Moroccan postal service - and micro-
     credit associations.

                                                    - 26 -


 -   Undertaken the drafting of the implementing regulations to these two laws. The Central Bank has
     also drafted an action plan intended to bolster its own capacity to implement the new regulatory
     framework.

 -   Adopted a series of legislative and regulatory texts applicable to the insurance and capital markets
     sectors. The implementing regulations to this amendedregulatory framework are being finalized.

 In addition, the government plans to improve the quality of regulation and supervision of the insurance
 sector in particular, in order to bring these activities in line with international standards (MIS). Also,
 the government i s committed to completing and implementing the new legal framework applicable to
 capital markets and to taking the steps necessary to comply with the international best practices
 stipulated by IOSCO.

 (b)     Restructuring public financial institutions

The restructuring plan for the Banque Nationale pour le De'veloppement Economique i s proceeding
smoothly, and the government remains fully mobilized for the restructuring process of the Cre'dit
Immobilier et Hdtelier and the Cre'dit Agricole du Maroc. To that end:

The Banque Nationalepour le De'veloppementEconomique has, to a large extent, been liquidated and its
performingassets transferred to the CDG or the Cre'ditAgricole du Maroc.

The Cre'dit Zmmobilier et Hdtelier is facing the challenge of redefining its strategy and role in the
financial sector, addressing the burden of its non-performing portfolio, upgradingits management and IT
systems, and rebuilding its capital base. A number of important steps taken recently demonstrate the
government's commitment to restructuring the CM, in particular the settlement of outstanding debt of
several public entities to CM. Current C M shareholders have already taken action to ensure the accuracy
of C M accounts, thereby assuming their financial responsibility. In addition, they have decided to
increase its capital and have entered into negotiations, currently at an advanced phase, to enlist the
services of a strategic private partner to help get the C M on a sound footing and operate on a profitable
and sustainablebasis, while respecting the prudentialrules of ordinary law.

The financial situation of the Cre'dit Agricole du Maroc remains difficult. An overall restructuring
program i s needed, focusing on institutional, operational, and financial aspects. The government will
ensure, within the framework of the program agreement currently being prepared, that any new public
capital contributions needed to restore (by December 31, 2007 at the latest) conformity with prudential
ratios i s included in this overall restructuring program, including, in particular, possible support from
new shareholders and strict adherence to the bank's financing and credit policy.

(c)      Enhancing the financial sector's infrastructure, transparency, and integrity

The government i s forging ahead with efforts to improve the payments system, to improve accounting
and auditing standards, and to strengthen policies relatedto money laundering.

 -   Payments system: Emphasis will be placed on upgrading the institutional framework (including
     providing the Central Bank with more human resources), improving client services, and the
     implementinga real-time gross settlement system (RTGS), which shouldbe come on stream in 2006.
 -   AuditinP and accounting in the corporate sector: In keeping with the recommendations set forth in
     the Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC), the government will take steps to

                                               - 27 -


   improve the quality of its financial information, with a view to fostering market discipline and
   monitoring risk. The objective i s to adopt IFRS standards and to establish consolidated financial
   statements,    particularly  in   the    case    of   companies     making     public    offerings.

-  Money laundering. and the financing. of terrorism: a draft law on fighting money laundering,
   intended to bring Morocco in line with FATFand United Nations standards, will be submitted to the
   government as soon as possible.

Mr.President, we would like to express our appreciation to you for your invaluable assistance with the
implementationof this ambitious program.



Very truly yours,

                                                                                                        1




         PrGt ir I'appui des politfques de ddvetappement du secteur financier

                           Lettre de politique de dhwdoppement



Monsieur le F&sident,

Depuis le d&uf de5 annCes 90, le Royaums du Maroc s'est eqgsgk dans une modernisatloh en
profondeur de son fec+eur financier. Grdclp h la d4ferminatiarr des. autoritds et clu dynamiPjme du
sectwr privk, des progrks importants ont k.th sccomplis. ba plus, le Gouvernement a mis en Oeuvre
une des principales conditions d'un systkme: financier moderna en uccordant une wtonomie et un
pouvarr accrw 21 lu Banquecentrale en matiare notammentde conduite de 16politique monitaire et
de la supervision bancaire et en renfor5aW les porrvcirs et les mayens des autres autoritb de
rdgulaticn e l de supervision.

1.Caract&istisua du secteur financier
Le setterrr bancaire jaue un r51e important dans I'ensemble du systdme financier. Si le Royaurne
du Maroc dispose d'un secteur bancaire globalemeni bien &tab!!, solide e t rentable, it n'en
demeure pa5 moins que certaines institutions financikrcs publiques     - tu Benque Nationale pour le
Dhveloppotl.centbnomique (BNDE), le Crddit Immobilier e l Hstelier (CIH), et le Cridir Agricote
du Maroc (CAN)    - se trouvent, ?Ides degrhs divers, daw me sitciafion financihre encore difficile.
Le touvwnernent est 21 cet igard ddtermihg 6 rnener b son terme la restructuration do CES
institutions Gn czppattant des solutions structurelles 4 cefte situotion.
Le Gouvernernent souhaite kgalement favoriser Io. concurrence et l'innovatian CIU seiq du stxteur
bancaire pour que los banques marocaines puissent faire face h I'envirannment de plus en plus
concurrentiet et libkralise dlr pays.
Bicn que des prcgres notables dent i t 6 accomplis sur la voie du diwloppement du rnarchd der;
capitaux, les autoriths du secteur financier sont conscientes que I'kpargne institutionnelle reste
Ctlcore faibls. L'asurance vie et le5 autres formes d'hpargne 4 long terme n'ont pas encore gag&
le grand plrblic, mzme si leur niveau de pdnhtration est plus klevd que dwS d'autres pays de la
r&yon. De mGme, les cotisants auX fonds de retraije ne reprdsentent encore qu'un faible
poiircentoqe de la population active.




                                                  1

-I
2. Strathsie.du.qouvernernent
~e Gouvernwnent entend pleinemenT poursuiure s a efforts de d4SengagemsnP prvtgressrf du
secteur fimncier, cfcr renforcsrnent du r6te du secteur prive et de promotien d'un environnement
favorisant l'hmcrgence d'un s y s t h e financrer efficace servant mkux les objectifs de
dS,voloppement e? de croissaee du pap.
Le MO~QC notarnment d&terminb h rmforcer le cadre juridique, rtglementdre et de
             est
supervision pour le secteur finwcier dans son ensemble.
 an^  CR confate, le ljouvernernant    du Marac u pris (argemmt en canr;idiraSion les malyses et
recommandations du Prugrarnme d'thaluation du secteur financier. rkulisL en 2002 et qui avait
Ident'ifi6 cfa faiblesses et des imuffisonces 011 Seih du secfeur financier. Le touvernernen?a ainsi
deploy6 des efforts qui ont perrnis wtamment de rmforcer la concurrence et do, moderniser le
cadre iiiggal et riglemcntaira du secleur firisrider. d'entmer le ri&pilibrage du systkme de
retraite et dengager un processus de modernisation des sysSkme5 de paiemen'ts. I! par                r'wt
ailleurs engagd it redtructurer de, mhnikre transparente les instiMians finat~iirespublicpres en
difficult6 et Ir les inscrire dans des mkanismes de marchd aftn de mieux dlouer les rssuurces
publiqufs.
fiinsi, les principales prioritds du Rayaume du Maroc pour k rdfonne du secreur financier son? (i)
le rehforcement de l'efficacitd de I'intermidiation du secteur financier ;(ti) le renforcement du
codre. juridique, rkg1emenTaireet de nrpervisim du secteur financier :(iii)la r&tructuro-tion des
institutions finnncGra publique et la Wionalisotion de leur &e dans le systkrne finunder :et
(iv) larikforma dq sysShe de ratmite, assurant la viabilitk & iong tarme des r&gimes.
 Le Royaurne dco Nwoc poursuivra. &gdment, Ses efforts poor ambliorer I'ittfrlzstructure du
 secteur financier afirt de rendre Ins syHirnes do paicmenl plus efficuces, d'amiliorer fa quulit&
 de Is comptabilitb e i de I'informoticm financikre des saciktks at cetle des rrarrne5 d'audii
 kiements cSSt3htids d'une kvahtion fiable du c d d i t par k s institutions LMncsireset tes marches
 des capitcux et de renforcor !a lutle contre le blanchirnent des capitaux.
               -

 UI
 3 Proqramme d'action Lees Autoritds
 Dos me~urb5ittIpQrta?IteS On? $ti priSeS pat- les AutOriteS p6ur amdiarer le codre juridique,
 r4glementairt: et dp. s~rpervisiondam le secteur ftnancier. En outre, /a ouforifis mcrocaines
 placent la restructuration en cours des inftitutiorls financiires publiques ou czur de leurs efforts
 en faveur du rsnfcrcement de Iu soutenabi!iti et de l'efficaciti du secteur financier ou Maroc.
 Ocns ce contexto. le. programmed'action du Gouvernement s'appuie sur ies trois piiiers suivan+s :


     (a) Renforcemwrt du cadre juridique, r8glcmentaire et de si~pervisiondu secteur financier
          -
 Pour ctieindte cet objectif. le Couvernement a d'ores et dkji! :
     rtvise la Statuts de la Banque Centrale et la Ioi bancaire     - ces deux textes de loi cnt ktd
     rdcemment adoptis par le Parlernent. La mise en application de cr, nouveau cadre jurrdiquc
     prkvoit notmmrrnt : I'autonomie dons la conduite de la politique mondtarre e.? dans lo
     supervision bancaire; le rsnforcerncnt de I'autorite de la Bcnque centrnie pour intervenir
     auprLs dc5 banqua en difficultk; et I'dlargissement de la supervision   UIJX G C t l V i t e 5 baqcaires

                                                2

   d'autres institutions dont la COG, les Service5 financiers de Barid AI-Maghrib Ia paste maracaine
                                                                                    -
      et ies asseciations de micro- crkdit.
        erlgagi fa prkpanation des textes rigltrnentaires d'applicatioe des deux lois. La Bmquer
        Ccntrale 4.ggolement klcabordunPlan d'action destink 21renforcer sa propre capaciti b mettre
                  C,
        en ceuvre le noweau cadre rd~leme~taire.
    -   adopt6 une siria de textes It5gislstifse t rt&&rnenicrires dahs le secteur des usS5urahceset des
        march& des capitcu~x.Les texter d'application du codre Ikgislatif r b i s i sont en     C Q U ~ Sde
        finaiisation,
    De plus, s'agissant en particulier des a~surance~,Gowernemeni campte rennforcer IC,qualit4 de
                                                          le
    la rigulation ct de Ja supervision du sectecrr afin de les mettre en eonformitd avet les nor me^
    internationales (IAIS). De mEme, et concernant le marchi des capitaux, le Gowernement
i  s'er~gclged paroachever et    mettre en &uwe le nouveuu cadre juridique y affirent et         prendre
  I6rnaures requisesp a r respester tesmeilleurespratiquesinterndimales kdictdaspart'OTCV.

         (b) Restructurationdes insWutions financikres publiques
             -
    Alorlt qua le plande restructuratian pour Iu Elanque natiohalede dbeloppement dconomique est en
    bonne vcie d'exkcutian, le Goucrernemtnl reste pleinementmrrbili56 pour maner 4 bien IEprocessus
    d'assainissernentdu Crddit immobilkr et h&elier ddu Cridit ngricole du Maroc. En effet :
    La Bclnque ntationde pour le dbeloopement Lconnmiaue          Q &.tiken granda partic liquid& et ses
    octifs prcductifs cMds h la 0 6 ou au Crkdit ogricole du Maroc.
    Le Crkdit immabilier dhijtelier fait face ao difi de la redifinition de sa stratigle e t de sa0 r6k
    dans le secteur financier, en trouumt une solution QU poids de s a crdmc= en souffronce. eh
    madernisant son systhmc de gestion et d'irrforma+ion, e+ M r&wranf son assise financikre.
    Pfusieurs actions importantes rdtentes ddmontrent I'twgagement du Goovernement en faveur dE
     fa rwtructuration du CIW, na.tarnmeht I'apuremeot des crQnces en souffrance de plusieurs
     entitis publiques. De leur c&i, les lzctiomires actuels do CZH ont d'ores et dijA agi pour
     refliter !a vkritk des comptds du CfW   - et emmer en cons&quenceleur responsabilitk Finonti&re.
     11s ant de plus dicidd d'une augmentation de capital et mgagd des n&gociations, aujourd'hui li un
     stadc avancd, pour associer un partenaire strathgique privi au redresserncot du CIH et 14
     poursuite de ses activit& sur des bases profitabies et pkrennes dans IC: r a p e d des rkgles
    pmdenticlb de droit commun.
    -Crddit
    Le           oqricole du Mcroc reste dans une situatian financikre difficile, qui nicessitrr un
    programme de restructuraticn gfobal, portont sur les aspects institutionnel, opkrationnej et
    financier Le touvernemevt veillera dam le cadre d'uncontrat programme en cows de prkporutian
    6 ce que tout nouvel appor? public en fonds propres requis pour restaurer (au plus tard le 31
    decembre 20071 la canformit6 avec les ratios prudcntiels s'inscrive dans le cadre d'un tcl
    programme de resfructuration global, incluant notsmment I'apput dventuel de rwuveoux
    actionnuires e t une stricte discipline dons la polttique de financement st de crhdit de la banque.




                                                     3

    (c) - Amk1ioratiotl de )'infrastructure, de la transparence et de I'in'rbgritk du secteur
financier
Le Gouvernement podrsuit ses efforts d'umdiioraJ.iondu systhe des paiements, d'amklieration
des norwes de compktbiliti et d'audit et de rcnfowernent des palitiques de lutte contre le
blenchiment de capitaux :
   Systkme de wdemertts :L'accent serq mis Sur I'amdliorstkon du cadre institutiannei (y rompris
   le renforcement des re~~ources   hurnairlesde la Banque cenimle]. des services ir la cliantkle e?
   lo mfse en place d'un systkme de rkglernent brut &h temp3 rkel (RTGS)          - 441 devra &e
   opdrstionnel en 2006.
   Audit. et cambtobilitk dms le secieur d e sociitb : En tigne avec ler; recommandations du
   popport stir la conformitd aU% norme.9 et code (RONC), le Gouvernement poursuiura ses
   acTians d'am%liorstlonde I' Inforrna-tionfinandre visant h encourager Id discipline de march4
   e? le wivi des risques- ('objectif ktant d'adopter les norma TFRS et d'itablir des bta$s
   financiers cansalidks, en parSiculier'pour lesocidtds faisani uppei pubfic h I'kpargne.

:  &ut** contre Ir: blanchirnent de capiteuxet le financement du terrorism%:Un projet de loi sur
   la lutte conyre le blrvrchiment de capitauux visan?  mettre ie Maroc en confornitk avec les
   standards internationax du CAFI e t de5 Nations Units sera saumis du Gouvernement dsns
   meiIleurs ddhi5.


En vous remerciunt de votre p&cieux appui pour la mise en ewris de ce? 4rnbi.tieox
pragramme, je YOUS prie d'agrrier. Monsieur le PrBsident, l'axpwsion de ma haute
cansidimtion.




                                               4

sc    +
      0

m
m

e
m
.I
u
m
e

E;I
e
-
h
0
,x
.I
m

                                                    - 35 -


ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE




Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 05/125                  InternationalMonetary Fund
September 15, 2005                                          700 19th Street, NW
                                                            Washington, D.C. 20431 USA




             IMFExecutiveBoard Concludes2005 Article IV Consultation with Morocco

On August 29, 2005, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the
Article IV consultation with Morocco.'

Background

Morocco has achieved macroeconomic stability since the early 1990s. Inflation has remained low
anchored by the exchange rate peg and thanks to a prudent monetary policy. The externalcurrent account
has been in surplus since 2001 and external reserves increased to a comfortable level. However, fiscal
deficits have remained large and the authorities have used part of the privatization receipts to finance
increased expenditures.

Growth has been volatile and insufficient to significantly reduce poverty and unemployment. Growth
averaged three percent over the last decade. It has been volatile because of the dependency of agriculture
to rainfalls, and recurrent droughts contribute to increasing poverty in rural areas. The unemployment
rate remains high, particularly in urban areas. Although the growth of the nonagricultural sector has
become more resilient to agricultural output shocks, it is insufficient to significantly reduce
unemployment.

Morocco continues to implement its broad based structural reform agenda. Large state-owned enterprises
have been privatized and remaining public enterprises are being restructured or prepared for
privatization. Inthe area of trade liberalization, the implementation of the association agreement with the
European Union, Morocco's main trading partner, i s proceeding as scheduled. Trade agreements were
signed with the United States, Turkey, Tunisia, Jordan and Egypt to complement the association
agreement with the European Union. Most Favored Nation tariffs were reduced to a maximum of
10percent for goods freely traded with the European Union. The financial sector i s being strengthened.
The imminentpromulgation of a new central bank and banking laws will further enhance the autonomy
of the Central Bank and its supervisory power. A new labor code has been approved and i s expected to
improve labor relations and flexibility in the labor market. The government i s pursuing its efforts to fight

                                                   - 36 -



poverty, improve social conditions, and enhance the rights of the female population. The impact o f these
reforms on Morocco's growth rates should be observed inthe medium term.

In2004, macroeconomic and financial conditions remained stable. While the overall GDPgrowth slowed
down to 4.2 percent on account o f a decline in growth inthe primary sector, nonagricultural GDP growth
picked up because o f a dynamic tertiary sector and a recovery in mining and energy. Inflation remained
below 2 percent. The current account was in surplus, and external reserves increased further and covered
about ten months imports o f goods and services as well as the public and publicly guaranteed external
debt.

The fiscal deficit (including Hassan I1 Fund and excluding privatization receipts) declined by
0.4 percentage points to 4.9 percent o f GDP, reflecting good revenue performance. However, some
budgetary policies did not support fiscal consolidation. Expenditures were higher than envisaged because
of increases in: (i)investment following acceleration in project execution; (ii) wage bill following
                                                                                  the
new salary increases; and (iii)subsidies because the food subsidy reform was postponed and the
petroleum price adjustment was not fully implemented. The authorities were able to prevent further
expenditure increases related to the El-Hoceima earthquake and a locust invasion by reallocating
budgetary appropriations. Public debt declined to 66 percent o f GDP because privatization receipts
helped finance the deficit.

The unfavorable agricultural campaign i s expected to affect macroeconomic conditions in 2005. The
overall GDP growth rate i s projected at about 1percent. The current account i s likely to register a small
deficit partly because o f a high level o f imports o f food products and higher oil bill. Nonetheless, the
overall balance o f payments i s expected to remain in surplus. The fiscal deficit (excluding privatization
revenue but including spending by Hassan I1Fund) i s expected to increase to about 5.5 percent o f GDP
(but to decline to 4.5 percent of GDP, excluding one-off factors) despite continued favorable revenue
performance. Expenditures will increase reflecting the repercussions on wage payments o f the 2004 wage
negotiations, the voluntary retirement program, the new universal health insurance program, the delay o f
the food subsidy reform, and the partial adjustment in May and August o f domestic petroleum prices.
Large privatization receipts will help contain the debt to GDP ratio at about 70 percent, despite the
issuance of debt to cover old pensionfund arrears (2.4 percent o f GDP).

Executive Board Assessment

Executive Directors commended the Moroccan authorities for maintaining macroeconomic stability and
for continuing to implement their structural reform agenda in 2004. Inflation remained low,
nonagricultural output growth accelerated, and foreign exchange reserves increased further. Good
revenue performance contributed to the narrowing o f the fiscal deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio
declined. Considerable progress has been made in the implementation o f structural reforms, most
importantly, those related to trade liberalization, the financial sector, public enterprises, and the labor
market.

Despite these achievements, Directors noted that growth continues to be volatile and insufficient to
significantly reduce unemployment and poverty. To these ends, they agreed that Morocco needs to
achieve sustained highrates o f growth in non agricultural output. Inthe context of Morocco's increasing
integration into the world economy, they considered accelerated structural reforms and fiscal
consolidation essential elements o f a high growth strategy. They, therefore, welcomed the authorities'
resolve to move expeditiously with their remaining structural reform agenda in a context of continued
macroeconomic stability and fiscal consolidation.

                                                     - 37 -



Although the current fiscal stance and debt level do not pose a risk to macroeconomic stability in the
short term, Directors considered that current policies, if maintained, could reduce the authorities' ability
to absorb unfavorable shocks, which could constrain growth. They, therefore, welcomed the authorities'
targeted reduction of the fiscal deficit to 3 percent of GDP over the mediumterm. They agreed that the
achievement of this objective and its compatibility with a high-growth strategy would require a reformof
the tax system that would widen the tax base and allow a reduction in tax rates, a decline in the wage-
bill-to-GDP ratio, an overhaul of the food subsidy program, and the implementation of the petroleum
price adjustment mechanism.

Directors welcomed the authorities' plan to implement a mediumterm budget framework to enhance the
efficiency of fiscal policies. They supported the authorities' efforts to initiate a tax reform, particularly of
the Value Added Tax, and to present a tax expenditure report with the 2006 budget to raise awareness
about the need to improve the efficiency of the tax system. They encouraged the authorities to move
expeditiously on a broad-based tax policy and tax administration reform. Directors welcomed the
authorities' decision to continue their no net new hiring policy, implement a modem human resource
management and remuneration system and a voluntary retiremenddeparture program, and pointed to the
importance of controlling salary adjustments and bonuses. Directors welcomed the increased emphasis
on social development, including through improved access to education, healthcare, housing and basic
infrastructure and rural development, to be financed within the medium-term budget objectives. They
also greeted the recent recognition of old pension fund arrears, and supported the authorities' efforts at
adopting and implementinga comprehensiveplan to put the pension system on a sound footing.

Directors agreed that the Moroccan authorities have made commendable progress in liberalizing the
economy. The recently signed free trade agreements with the United States, Turkey and regional partners
will help attract foreign direct investment and boost Morocco's growth and export performances.
However, to fully exploit the benefits of trade integration, Directors urged the authorities to simplify the
tariff structure, further reduce tariffs, and eliminate variable tariff rates inparallel with the reform of the
food subsidy system while providing targeted support to vulnerable groups. They noted that liberalization
measures in the area of telecommunications contributed to the current dynamism of the sector and those
related to air transportation have positively impacted tourism. They encouraged the authorities in their
efforts to liberalize other sectors of the economy.

Directors urged the authorities to fully implement the new labor code, which should help clarify
employer/employee relationships, and to accelerate judicial reforms, which should enhance investors'
confidence. Directors encouraged the authorities to accelerate the implementation of the remaining
measures needed to improve the business environment. In particular, they noted the need to improve
governance and transparency. Directors called for caution in the provision of exemptions or special
incentives infavor of specific sectors as a measureto foster investment.

Directors welcomed the authorities' continued efforts to strengthen the financial sector and implement the
recommendations of the Financial Sector Assessment Program. The promulgation of the new central
bank and banking laws will further enhance the autonomy and supervisory power of the Central Bank.
Directors noted the progress made in the restructuring of the three weak state-owned banks. They urged
the authorities to accelerate the implementation of the measures required to bring these banks to
compliance with prudential regulations as soon as possible. Directors encouraged the authorities to
continue addressingthe remaining vulnerabilities in the financial system, includingthe highlevel of non
performing loans, and to remove the structural constraints in order to enhance the availability and reduce
the cost of credit to small-and-medium-size enterprises, which represent the core of Morocco's enterprise
sector. They commended the adoption of a bill to combat the financing of terrorism, and looked forward
to action on anti-money launderinglegislation.

                                                       - 38 -


Directors noted that the current peg of the dirham has served the economy well and contributed to
keeping inflation low, and that there are no signs o f an exchange rate misalignment. Given the increasing
integration o f the Moroccan economy into the rest o f the world, they noted that a gradual transition to a
flexible exchange rate regime would be advisable. They welcomed the authorities' openness to consider
the desirability o f alternative exchange rate regimes taking into account the characteristics of the
Moroccan economy.

Directors commended the authorities' efforts to improve the statistical database. Inparticular, they noted
the progress made toward meeting the Special Data Dissemination Standards (SDDS), and encouraged
the authorities to implement the agreed action plan to enable Morocco to subscribe to the SDDS in the
coming months.


                 Table 1.Morocco: Selected Economic and FinancialIndicators, 2000-05


                                          Quota: SDR 588.20 million
                                            Population: 29.8 million
                                      Per capita income: US$ 1,677 (2004)


                                                           2000 2001 2002 2003               2004       2005
                                                                                              Prel      Proj.


                                                             (Annual percentage change; unless otherwise
                                                                              indicated)
   Production and income
   Nominal GDP                                               2.5     8.2    3.8     5.5        5.8       2.8
   Real GDP                                                   1.0    6.3    3.2     5.5        4.2        1.o
   Real nonagricultural GDP                                  3.6     3.6    2.8     3.5        4.7       4.0
   GDP deflator                                               1.5    1.8    0.6    -0.1        1.5        1.8
   Consumer price index (CPI), average                        1.9    0.6    2.8      1.2       1.5        2.0


                                                             (Inbillions of U.S. dollars; unless otherwise
                                                                              indicated)

   External sector
   Exports of goods, f.0.b.                                  7.4     7.1    7.8      8.8       9.7       10.2
   Exports of goods, f.0.b. ( percent change)               -1.2    -3.7    9.8    11.8       11.2        4.6
   Imports of goods, f.0.b.                                 10.7    10.2   10.9    13.1       16.2       18.7
   Imports of goods, f.0.b. (percent change)                 7.0    -4.6    7.2    20.1       23.9       15.2
   Oil imports f.0.b.                                         1.4    1.3    1.2      1.0       1.6        2.2
   Net services and income                                   0.3     1.1    1.2      1.8       2.7        3.0
   Net transfers                                             2.5     3.6    3.3      4.1       4.9        5.1
   Current account (in percent of GDP)                      -1.4     4.8    4.1      3.6       2.2       -0.9
   Overall balance (deficit -)                              -0.4     3.8    0.6      1.6        1.8       0.2

                                                 - 39 -




                                                                  (Inpercent of GDP)
Central government
Revenue, excluding grants and privatization          26.2   25.0    24.7   24.5      25.1      26.4
Total expenditure (including Fonds Hassan ZZ)        32.4   31.1    29.9   30.3      30.9      32.4
Overall balance 1/                                    -6.4  -5.7    -4.7    -5.3      -4.9      -5.5
Privatization and GSM receipts                         0.0   6.1     0.2     2.9       2.3      2.6
Overall balance, incl. privatization 1/               -6.4   0.4    -4.5    -2.5      -2.6      -2.9


                                                        (Annual percent change; unless otherwise
                                                                       indicated)
Money and credit
Broad money                                            8.4  14.2     6.3     8.6       7.5       5.8
Interest rate (Avg, money market rate, inpercent)      5.4   4.4     3.0     3.2       2.4        ...


Official reserves
Gross official reserves (inbillions of US$, end-       4.8   8.4    10.1    13.9      16.3      16.0
Inmonths of imports of goods and services              4.6   8.2     9.1    10.4      10.0       8.6


Debt (short-, medium-, and long-term)
Total external debt (in billions of US$)             18.0   15.9    15.7    16.8      16.6      16.0
Total external debt (inpercent of GDP)               55.0   47.8    40.9    35.1     30.8       30.2
Domestic government debt (in percent of GDP) 2/      47.3   45.8    48.1    50.1     49.9       55.2
Total government debt (in percent of GDP) 2/         81.5   74.7    71.4    68.5     65.8       69.9


Memorandum items:
GDP at current prices (inbillions of DH)            354.2 383.2 397.8 419.5         443.7      456.0
GDP at current prices (inbillions of US$)            33.3   33.9    36.1    43.8      50.0        ...
Exchange rate: dirham/US$ (average period)          10.63 11.30 11.02       9.57      8.87        ...
Real effective exchange rate (appreciation +)          2.8  -4.1    -0.3    -1.3      -0.6        ...
Terms of trade (deterioration -)                      -7.7   7.6    -7.3     5.7     -10.8      -3.1
Excluding oil                                         -2.4   7.9    -8.6     8.5     -10.3      -0.5
Unemployment rate (inpercent)                         13.7  12.8    12.5    11.4      10.8        ...
Urban                                                21.5   20.3    18.0    19.3      18.4        ...
Rural                                                  5.2   4.2     6.2     3.4       3.1        ...

Sources:Data provided by the Moroccan authorities; and IMFstaff projections.
1/ Commitment basis including Fonds Hassan ZZ.
2/ Gross debt including net central bank credit.

                                                                               -
ANNEX 4: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                                              -40

                                            Morocco at a glance                                                                            8/25/05

                                                                           M. East        Lower-
      POVERTYandSOCIAL                                                     & North       mlddle
                                                               Morocco       Africa      income      Developmentdlamond.
      2004
      Population, mid-year (millims)                                30.6        294        2,430
      GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           1,520      2,000        1,580                   Life expectancy
      GNI (Atlas method, US$bi/lion$)                               46.5        589        3,047
      Average annualgrowth,199844
      Population (%)                                                  1.6        1.8         1.o
      Laborforce (%)                                                  2.4       -1.3         0.7                                             Gross
                                                                                                      Per                                   primary
      Most recent estimate(Iateslyear available, 1990-04)                                             capita                             enrollment
      Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverfyline)                 19
      Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                            58        56           49
      Life expectancyat birth (yean)                                   69        68           70                          1
      Infantmortality (per 1,OOOlive births)                           36        45           33
      Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                                                11           Access to improvedwater source
      Access to an improvedwater sourn (% ofpopulation)                80         88          81
      Literacy(% ofpopulationage 1 5 4                                 51         69          90
      Grossprimary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)            110        100          114        -Morocco
          Male                                                       115        104          115         -Lower-middle-incomegroup
          Female                                                     to4          94         113

      KEY ECONOMICRATIOSandLONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                        1984        1994       2003         2004      Economlcratlot'
      GDP (US$ billions)                                12.8         30.4       43.7         50.1
      GrosscapitalformationMjDP                         25.3         21.3       23.8         23.9
      Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                   23.8         24.9       32.3         31.4                        Trade

      Grossdomestic savingdGDP                           14.7        15.3       19.7         17.5
      GrossnationalsavingdGDP                            18.2        19.0       27.3         27.5
      Current awunt balance/GDP                           -7.8        -2.4       3.7          2.9
       InterestpaymentdGDP                                 4.5         4.5        3.0         1.2     Domestic                           Capital

      Total debVGDP                                     109.1        75.7       43.2         37.4     savings                            formation
      Total debt service/exports                         27.6        37.9       23.7         15.4
       Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                                 40.1
       Presentvalue of debvexports                                              96.7
                                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                             1984-94 199444         2003        2004      2004-08,
       (averageannualgrowth)
       GDP                                       3.6       3.2         5.2        3.5         4.0          -Morocco
       GDP percapita                             1.5       1.5         3.6        1.9         2.5          -Lower-middleincomegrwp
       Exportsof goods and setvices              7.3       4.1         0.6        2.6         5.3

        ~~    ~~




       STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                         1984        1994       2003         2004    I Growthof capltal and GDP(X)
       (% of GDP)                                                                                                                                  I
       Agriculture                                        15.0         18.5      16.8         16.7
       Industry                                           33.3        30.8       29.6        29.7
          Manufacturing                                   18.5         17.0      16.6         16.5
       Services                                           51.7        50.6       53.6        53.6
       Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure              69.8        67.5       59.2         64.5
       General gov't final consumptionexpenditure         15.6         17.1      21.0         18.0
        Importsof goods and services                      34.4        30.9       36.4         37.8   1            -GCF            +GDP             I

                                                      1984-94 1994-04           2003         2004
        (averageannualgrowth)                                                                         Grom of exportsand lrnporta(X)

        Agriculture                                        3.1          2.3      18.0          3.0                                                 I
        Industry                                           3.0          3.6        3.3         4.0
          Manufacturing                                    3.7          3.3        3.8         3.5
        Services                                           4.0          3.3        3.t         3.4
        Household final Consumptionexpenditure             3.9          3.0        7.9         5.4
        General gov't final msumption expenditure          4.8          4 2        5.8         1.5
        Grosscapital formation                             2.3          8.2        6.9         4.3
        Importsof goods and services                       7.3          6.6        7.4         5.8

        Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates.

        * The diamonds show fWr key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its incomeggroupaverape. Ii data are missing. the diamond will
           be incomplete.

                                                              -41      -

                                                                                                                              Morocco

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                1984     1994          2003
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 12.5       5.1           1.2       4.1      '
lmplicil GDP deflator                             8.8      1.6           0.0       2.5

Governmentfinance                                                                           1
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                                           0
Currentrevenue                                  16.2      24.2                    24.1               9 9   m     O    l    0   2   m     M
Currentbudget balance                            -7.0      1.2                    -0.8               -GDP      dellator   *CPI
Overall surpluddeficil                           8.1      -3.3                    -4.1

TRADE
                                                1984      1994         2003      2004
(US$millions)                                                                               Export and Import levels( U S mill.)

Total exports (fob)                            2,161     5,541                  9,266
  Agriculture                                    486     1,150                   1,801      20*oooT
  Phosphorusrock                                 524       273                     430      15,ooo
  Manufactures                                   434     3,010                   5,616
Total imports(cin                              3,904     8,271                 16,364       10,wo

  Food                                           660       817                   1,411
  Fuel and energy                               1,021    1,113                   2,762       5.ooO

  Capital goods                                  733     2,003                   3,628           0
                                                                                                     98  99    CU    01    02   03     M
Exportprice index (20W=lW)
 Importprice index (ZOW=lOO)                                                                           BEXpOriS        .Irrports
Terms of trade (20W=7001

 BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                1984      1994          2003      2004
 (US$millions)                                                                               Current account balanceto GDP (%)

 Exportsof goods and services                   3,038     7,555        14,140   15,164
 Importsof goodsand services                    4,390     9,3i7        15,913   18,271       6 T
 Resource balance                              -1,352    -1,822        -1,773    -3,107

 Net income                                      -575    -1,170         -728     -1,001
 Net current transfers                            930     2,270         4,123    5,560

 Currentaccount balance                          -998      -723         1,622     1,473

 Financingitems (net)                           1,066     1,084           130     1,801
 Changes in net reserves                           -68     -361        -1.752    -3,274

 Memo:
 Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)
 Conversion rate (DEC,lccaVUS$)                    8.8       9.2          9.6        8.9

  EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                 1984      1994         2003       2004
  (US$mi//ions)                                                                               Cornposttionof 2004 debt( U S mill.)

  Total debt outstandingand disbursed          13,908    22,973        18,910    18,710
    IBRD                                           867    3,746         2,719     2,524
    IDA                                             43       35            23         21                                                     I
  Total debt service                            1,082     3.636         4,294     2.971
    IBRD                                           142      572           431        572
    IDA                                              1         2            2           2
  Composition of net resurca flow
    Officialgrants                                  43      279           230
    Gificial creditors                             646      -330          441       -597
                                                                                                                                             I
    Private creditors                              443       146          103       -573
    Foreigndirect investment(net inflows)           47      551         2,279
    Portfolioequiw (net inflow)                      0       238             6                                       E.5.787
  World Bank propram
    Commitments                                    266       127            54        127      A . IBRD                         E . Bilateral
    Disbursemnts                                   276       246           143        129      8 . IDA   D Other mllilaleral
                                                                                                          .                     F Private
    Principal repayments                            72       302           307       469       C IMF
                                                                                                 -                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                                  ..
    Netflows                                       204       -56          -164       -340
    Interestpayments                                70       271           126        105
    Net transfers                                  134      -327          -290       -I44


  The World Bank Group: This table was prepared by countryunit staff, fgures may differ fromother Wwld Bank publisheddata.            &2m


MAP SECTION


