                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000661




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-73500)




                                  FOR A LOAN


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 166.3 MILLION

                         (US$200 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

                          THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                     FOR A

              FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                 January 28, 2008


Finance and Private Sector
Social and Economic Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective September 30th, 2005)

                         Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
                                       1.00 = US$ [ ]
                                US$ 1.00 = 9.3 Dirhams

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1st ­ December 31st


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AML     Anti-Money Laundering
BCP     Banque Centrale Populaire (People's Central Bank)
BMAO    Banque Marocaine pour I'Afrique et I'Orient (Moroccan Bank for Africa and the East)
BNDE    Banque Nationale pour le Développement Economique (National Bank for Economic Development)
CAM     Credit Agricole du Maroc (Moroccan Agricultural Bank)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDG     Caisse de Dépôt et Gestion (Deposit and Management Fund)
CDVM    Conseil Déontologique des Valeurs Mobilières (Securities Ethics Council)
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFT     Counter-Financing of Terrorism
CIH     Credit lmmobilier et Hotelier (Housing and Real Estate Bank)
CNCA    Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CPM     Credit Populaire du Maroc (People's Bank of Morocco)
EIB     European Investment Bank
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IMF     International Monetary Fund
LDP     Letter of Development Policy
NPLS    Non Performing Loans
ROSC    Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes




                             Vice President:       Daniela Gressani
                          Country Director:        Mats Karlsson
                           Sector Manager:         Zoubida Allaoua
                        Task Team Leader:          Didier Debals
                         ICR Team Leader           Catherine Burtonboy

                                            COUNTRY

     MOROCCO: FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 15
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 16
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 17
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 18
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 19
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 24
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 25

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Financial Sector
Country:               Morocco                 Program Name:         Development Policy
                                                                     Loan
Program ID:            P088243                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-73500
ICR Date:              12/27/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                     MOROCCO
Original Total
                       USD 200.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 205.5M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance & Privatization
Central Bank
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/17/2005     Effectiveness:        12/20/2005       12/20/2005
Appraisal:             04/04/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/15/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              06/30/2007       06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Highly Satisfactory  Government:              Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:         Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:             Highly Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                 Rating:

Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                          None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                           25                 25
Capital markets                                                   10                 10
General finance sector                                            35                 35
Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
                                                                  15                 15
savings
Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement              15                 15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Legal institutions for a market economy                         Secondary         Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary           Primary
Standards and financial reporting                               Secondary         Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                   Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                      Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Zoubida Allaoua                    Zoubida Allaoua
Program Team Leader:       Didier Debals                      Didier Debals
ICR Team Leader:           Catherine H. Burtonboy
ICR Primary Author:        Catherine H. Burtonboy




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The main development objective of the government financial sector reform program, and
of the proposed loan, is to strengthen the enabling legal and institutional environment for
financial intermediation and risk management, and to increase private sector role and
participation in the provision of financial services. The operation would support this
objective under three components aimed at: (i) implementing an effective and modern
legal, regulatory and supervisory framework, in line with international standards, across
the banking, insurance, and securities markets so as to improve financial intermediation
and risk-taking behaviors, and foster a more efficient mobilization of savings; (ii)
restructuring weak public financial institutions particularly in addressing their stock of
non-performing assets, and streamlining their role and activities in the financial sector;
and (iii) developing as needed the financial sector infrastructure in modernizing the
payments system, improving the integrity of the financial sector through better anti-
money laundering policies, and enhancing the quality of financial information in
upgrading accounting and auditing standards.


Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value       Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                             approval        Target        Completion or
                                           documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Compliance of CIH with prudential requirements

Value                                   Compliance in                    Compliance iwith
(quantitative or Negative net worth of  2007 with                        prudential
Qualitative)     DH 1.1 billion         prudential
                                        requirements                     requirements

Date achieved    11/17/2005             06/30/2007                       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         The target was met
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Enactment of new by-laws of the Central Bank

Value                                   New by-laws                      New by-laws

(quantitative or  Not yet approved by   approved and                     approved and

Qualitative)     Parliament             enacted by                       enacted by
                                        Parliament                       Parliament
Date achieved    11/17/2005             12/16/2005                       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Target met
achievement)



                                             iii

Indicator 3 :    Enactment of new Banking Law
                                                                         New law on
Value                                    New Banking law                 Banking law has
(quantitative or Not yet approved by     approved by                     been approved by
Qualitative)     Parliament              Parliament and
                                         Enacted                         Parliament and
                                                                         enacted
Date achieved    11/17/2005              12/16/2005                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Target met
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from                      Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised     Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Level of bank provisioning of non-performing loans
                                                                         Level of non
Value                                                                    performing loans at
(quantitative or No baseline value                                       75% for Banks and
Qualitative)     collected                                               89% for refinancing
                                                                         institutions
Date achieved    11/17/2005                                              06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Share of state ownership in the banking sector
Value
(quantitative or 49.5%                   35%                             38%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    11/17/2005              12/16/2005                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Target substantially met
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Number of companies preparing consolidated audited financial statements
                                                                         All 16 banks and 36
                                         Totality of                     other financial
Value            Some companies          companies prepare               institutions, and all
(quantitative or prepare consolidated    consolidated                    off-shore banks (6)
Qualitative)     audited financial
                 statements              audited financial               prepare
                                         statements                      consolidated
                                                                         financial statements
Date achieved    11/17/2007              12/16/2005                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                              iv

Indicator 4 :    Number of new life insurance contracts
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Amount of new life insurance contracts
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived             DO                         IP           Disbursements
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1     12/23/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory               0.50
  2     06/28/2006         Satisfactory              Satisfactory            128.61
  3     12/29/2006         Satisfactory              Satisfactory            128.61
  4     06/21/2007         Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory         205.52



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             v

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR,
not evaluative):

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)

Over the decade preceding project approval, Morocco had implemented successful programs and
pursued prudent economic, fiscal, monetary and debt management policies as well as financial
sector reforms that contributed to maintaining price stability. The Government initiated an
ambitious program of structural reforms in many areas including trade facilitations, custom
reforms, financial sector liberalization, telecom privatization, agriculture and public sector
modernization. The successful privatization of several state enterprises attracted foreign direct
investments, which coupled with strong and steady flows of remittances from Moroccans abroad
and tourism receipts, led to an increase in international reserves (which more than doubled from
4.6 months of imports in 2000 to 10 months on 2004), successive current account surpluses (since
2001) and banking liquidity. These reforms helped increase investor confidence and growth.
However growth has been volatile because of the dependency of agriculture to rainfalls, and
insufficient to significantly reduce poverty and unemployment. Recurrent droughts contributed to
increasing poverty in the rural areas. The unemployment rate remained high, particularly in urban
areas.

At project appraisal and as a result of reforms initiated since the early 1990s, supported inter-alia
by a World Bank adjustment operation in 1996, Morocco had significantly modernized its
financial sector. The main components of a modern financial system were in place, bestowing
increased autonomy and power on the monetary and banking regulatory authorities: 1) a number
of well established, sound and profitable private banks, and 2) a good primary market for
government securities. Credit to the private sector accounted for a relatively good share (55
percent) of GDP, and had a potential for further growth. However despite these positive steps, the
financial sector continued to face important challenges related to banking institutions relatively
shielded from competition, underdeveloped insurance and capital markets, out dated payment
systems, and an uneven supervisory framework. Consequently, the coverage of the retail banking
system remained low, and access to financial services for the poor was limited.

The banking sector played a central role in, and accounted for the bulk of, the financial system,
with 60 percent of the total sectoral balance sheet. Government played an important role in the
sector through direct control and ownership of a significant share of domestic financial assets,
including the largest commercial bank, four specialized banks (the former OFSs1), and the
"Caisse de Dépôts et Gestion" (CDG), a non-bank financial institution which played an important
role in the economy.



1
  The former Organismes Financiers Spécialisés (OFS) include Banque Nationale pour le Développement
Economique (BNDE), le Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC), le Crédit Immobilier et Hôtelier (CIH), and la Caisse Nationale du
Crédit Agricole (CNCA), recently transformed into a limited company and renamed Crédit Agricole du Maroc (CAM).




                                                               1

The non-bank components of the financial system (excluding CDG) had, overall, limited impact
on the economy. Life insurance and other forms of optional long-term saving schemes had not yet
gained broad appeal, even if with higher penetration levels than in other neighboring countries.
Contributors to pension funds represent less than 15 percent of the labor force. The weakness in
institutional savings is one of the impediments to capital market development.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

World Bank support was needed at this juncture to help the government move forward with the
program of financial sector reform especially in what related to the institutional and financial
restructuring of Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) and Credit Agricole du Maroc (CAM) which
had benefited from extended periods of regulatory exemption from prudential requirements. The
present operation represented a significant step forward in that respect, in particular given the
importance of the signaling effect of a successful restructuring of CIH and CAM. Early
compliance in this regards weighed heavily on the credibility of the regulatory authority in the
context of the new central bank and banking laws. Moreover, the success of this operation would
be a critical signal as to the institutions' ability to operate in a competitive, market-based
environment. Of particular relevance was the World Bank's long-term involvement in a
comprehensive approach to financial sector reform and development in Morocco. The project was
building upon the policy dialogue conducted with the authorities in the financial sector in the
context of, and as a follow-up to, the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP). The present
operation did not intend to, nor did it have the ability to address all the challenges facing the
Moroccan financial sector, but rather intended to lock in a significant set of reforms on the most
pressing issues and pave the way, if the authorities so wish, for World Bank support to
subsequent reforms.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The main development objective of the government financial sector reform program, and of the
proposed loan, is to strengthen the enabling legal and institutional environment for financial
intermediation and risk management, and to increase private sector role and participation in the
provision of financial services. The operation would support this objective under three
components aimed at: (i) implementing an effective and modern legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework, in line with international standards, across the banking, insurance, and securities
markets so as to improve financial intermediation and risk-taking behaviors, and foster a more
efficient mobilization of savings; (ii) restructuring weak public financial institutions particularly
in addressing their stock of non-performing assets, and streamlining their role and activities in the
financial sector; and (iii) developing as needed the financial sector infrastructure in modernizing
the payments system, improving the integrity of the financial sector through better anti-money
laundering policies, and enhancing the quality of financial information in upgrading accounting
and auditing standards.

PDO Indicators
Indicator            Baseline value                          End of Project Progress
1. Compliance of     Negative net        11/07/2005          In compliance        06/30/2007
CIH with             worth of 1.1                            with prudential
prudential           billion DH                              requirements
requirements
2. Enactement of     New by-laws         11/07/2005          New by-laws of       06/30/2007
new by laws of       approved by                             the Central Bank
the Central Bank     Parliament                              approved by


                                                  2

                                                                Parliament and
                                                                enacted
3. Enactment of      New Banking           11/07/2005           New banking           06/30/2007
new Banking          laws approved by                           laws approved by
Laws                 Parliament                                 Parliament and
                                                                enacted



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The PDO and the key indicators have remained the same during the life of the project.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The Government of Morocco paid close attention to the analysis and recommendations of the
2002 Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), which underlined the weaknesses and
deficiencies of the financial sector. As a result, and as described above in the PDO, the main
priorities for the country centered on the following policy areas:
(i) enhancing the efficiency of financial sector intermediation;
(ii) strengthening the financial sector's legal, regulatory and supervisory framework; and
(iii) restructuring public financial institutions and streamlining their role in the financial system.

In addition the Government of Morocco made the public financial institution restructuring
exercise the centerpiece of its efforts to enhance the sustainability and efficiency of the Moroccan
financial sector.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

The policy areas were not revised during the life of the project.

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

There were no significant changes made to the project from the design stage to the completion of
the operation and the disbursement of the second tranche.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

*For multi-tranche DPL:
The conditions for the release of the first tranche of the operation (Tranche 1) were a
condition to Board presentation and, were therefore met at Board presentation.




                                                    3

                                                   Tranche 1
List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                        Status
 Condition 1: Adoption by Parliament of the new bylaws of Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM).           Met
Condition 2: Adoption by Parliament of the law on credit institutions and similar          Met
institutions (new banking laws)
Condition 3: Transmission to the General Secretariat of the Government of the              Met
ministerial order on insurance and reinsurance companies, including provisions regarding
assets diversification and valuation, solvency requirements, calculation of the technical
provisions and recourse to reinsurance.
Condition 4: Enacted a ministerial order setting forth the accounting standards for the    Met
insurance sector.
Condition 5: Identification by the insurance regulator of the insurance companies not in   Met
compliance with regulations related to technical provisions and solvency requirements,
and advising the World Bank accordingly.
Condition 6: Enactment of laws on "CDVM", stock exchange, mutual funds (OPCVM),            Met
Central depository (Maroclear), public offerings and Repurchase agreements.
Condition 7: Full payment by the ERACs of their arrears to CIH.                            Met
Condition 8: Completion of Memoranda of Understanding between the CIH and the              Met
ONE and other public entities recording payment arrears towards the CIH.
Condition 9: Finalization of the agreement between the State and the CI                    Met
H on the settlement of the State guarantees to CIH.
Condition 10: Decision by the CIH shareholders, General Assembly of a capital increase
of DH 1,850 million with a view to restore a positive net worth.                           Met

Condition 11: Adoption of an Action Plan to set up a Real Time Gross Settlements
System (RTGS)                                                                              Met
Condition 12: Submission to the Prime Minister of a circular formalizing the creation of
the steering committee of the Action Plan (« comité de pilotage du Plan d'action ») on     Met
the accounting and audit standards.
Condition 13: Submission to Parliament of a draft law on the preparation and disclosure
of consolidated financial statements for public enterprises and entities.                  Met
                                                   Tranche 2
List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                        Status
Condition 1: Enacted a ministerial order ("arrêté ministériel") extending the scope of     Met
banking supervision to the banking activities of the CDG.
     · The ministerial order from the Ministry of Finance and Privatization
          endorsing the decision of the CEC was published on January 5, 2007. The
          CEC agreed with the extension of the banking supervision to the banking
          activities of the CDG who will ultimately gather the whole of its banking
          activities in one structure and subject it to the oversight of Bank Al Maghrib
          (BAM).This extension of the scope of supervision will reduce the overall
          systemic risk and consolidate the various measures adopted by the authorities
          for more market-based and transparent actvities
Condition 2: Submitted to the Bank BAM's procedures for the treatment of financially       Met
troubled commercial banks.
     · A handbook on procedures relating to the individual treatment of troubled
          credit institutions satisfactory to the Bank, has been drafted, submitted
          internally for review and approved.
Condition 3: Submitted to the Bank and the International Monetary Fund a request for an    Met
updated assessment, to be undertaken no later than the second semester of calendar year
2007, with regards to the Borrower's compliance with the Basel Principles on banking
supervision.
     · The Minister of Finance and Privatization transmitted to the IMF and the            Met
          Bank an official request for an FSAP update on September 15, 2006. The
          joint Bank/IMF FSAP update took place during the first part of November
          2007.                                                                            Met



                                                        4

Condition 4: Enacted a ministerial order ("arrêté ministériel") on insurance and
reinsurance companies, including, inter alia, provisions relating to assets diversification
and valuation, solvency requirements, calculation of the technical; provisions and the
recourse to reinsurance.
    · The ministerial order from the Ministry of Finance and Privatization was
        published on October 10, 2005. Insurance regulation is therefore in line with
        the International Association of Insurance Supervisors standards. These
        updates were a prerequisite to adapt the insurance sector to a new
        environment and attract investors.
Condition 5: Enacted a ministerial order ("arrêté ministériel") setting forth the           Met
accounting standards for the insurance sector.
    · The ministerial order was published on October 20, 2005 and came into effect
        on January1, 2006. With this new set of accounting standards, insurance
        companies are now in compliance with the International Accounting
        Standards and ready to operate under the new financial environment                  Met
Condition 6: liberalized the setting of price for insurance premia.
    · The tariff liberalization for the premia of automobile insurance and the
        commissioning of the intermediaries became effective on July 6, 2006 with the
        non renewal of the ministerial decree (nº 2-00-854) fixing these tariffs. The
        "Direction des Assurances et de la Prévoyance Sociale"(DAPS) set up a
        specific device aimed at ensuring a smooth transition from controlled to
        liberalized tariffs: customers who will not be able to find an insurance
        company will contact the DAPS who will appoint an insurer. The DAPS
        defined, on a transitional basis, a certain number of mandatory criteria to
        take into account when the companies calculate the amount of premiums for
        automobile insurance. And finally, the DAPS has put at the disposal of the
        profession an average market-based premium that constitute a benchmark in
        the calculation of the tariffs.                                                     Met
Condition 7: Prepared an action plan providing for the reform of the Borrower's labor
funds ("Fonds du travail").
    · The DAPS has prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
        reform of the Labor Funds. Unfortunately the reform has not gone any
        further since project close. The Ministry of Finance and Privatization and
        "Caisse Nationale de Securité Sociale"(CNSS) (already in charge of the
        mandatory sickness insurance of the private sector). At this point, the CNSS is
        supposed to deliver an action plan to the DAPS, but nothing has been done to
        date                                                                                Met
Condition 8: Submitted to the Bank an issues note regarding the generalization of
insurance on work-related activities.
    · The DAPS provided the Bank with an issues note covering the generalization
        on work-related accidents. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity
        would like to entrust the entire management of work-related accidents to the
        CNSS. If this was to take place, there would be a shift from an insurance
        rationale to one of social security benefits. A Commission is currently
        supposed to work on the simplification of compensation procedures, but this
        activity does seem to be very high on the authorities' agenda, again, while the
        condition was met, not much has been done since.                                    Met
Condition 9: Prepared an action plan providing for the establishment of insurance
mechanisms for natural disasters and political events.
    · The completion of this action went initially beyond the required preparation
        of an action plan since a draft law was submitted to the General Secretariat of
        the Government in December 2006. Unfortunately, since then the draft law
        has not progressed and is clearly not a priority on the authorities' agenda.        Met
Condition 10: ensured that all insurance companies have complied with the Borrower's
prudential regulations. In the event that an insurance company does not comply with said



                                                        5

regulations, the Borrower shall have caused the insurance regulator ("Contrôleur des
assurances"), for each said company to: (i) endorse a restructuring plan ("plan de
redressement") for restoring said company's compliance with said regulations; or (ii)
impose a total or partial withdrawal of said company's insurance license, as the case may
be.
     · Letters from the Ministry of Finance and Privatization dated September 26,
          2006 and June 7, 2007, summarizing the situation and the different measures
          adopted to put on track the remaining ailing companies were transmitted to
          the Bank. To date, only three companies remain in non-compliance, but a         Met
          restructuring plan is in place for all three.
Condition 11: Submitted to its Council of Government a draft law on collective
management schemes.
     · A draft law, satisfactory to the Bank, has been submitted and adopted by the
          Council of Government on October 6, 2006. One of the major provision of the
          law is to henceforth submit the mutual funds companies to the approval of the
          Ministry of Finance and Privatization and to the oversight of the "Conseil
          Déontologique des Valeurs Mobilières" (CDVM)with an array of disciplinary
          and pecuniary sanctions.                                                        Met
Condition 12: Adopted in its Council of Government a draft law amending the
Borrower's Law N0. 10-98 dated August 25, 1999, on securitization.
     · A draft law, satisfactory to the Bank, was adopted by the Council of
          Government on April 26, 2007. The main objective of the law is to broaden
          the base for debt securitization including future cash flows, ease the
          management of securitization and facilitate the opening of the funds to a
          greater number of investors.                                                    Met
Condition 13: Submitted to its Secretariat General du Gouvernement a draft decree
granting operational budget autonomy ("contrôle d'accompagnement") to CDVM
pursuant to article 17 of the Borrower's Law No. 69-00.
     · Again here, the authorities went beyond the requested draft decree since the
          actual decree nº 2-06-175 related to the transition of the CDVM to an ex-post
          control (article 17- Law 69-00) regarding the implementation of its budget
          was published on April 6, 2006. The 2007 budget was approved by the
          "Conseil d'Administration"                                                      Met
Condition 14: Submitted to the Bank an external assessment of CDVM's compliance
with IOSCO principles.
     · A report on this assessment was drafted and submitted to the Bank,
          emphasizing the strengths and weaknesses of the financial regulation in
          Morocco (12 principles not applied or partially not applied out of 30). The
          main weaknesses related to the absence of legal provisions regarding money
          laundering, the absence of accounting principles in line with international
          standards, the lack of exchange of information among the local authorities in
          charge of the financial sector and between the CDVM and its foreign
          counterparts. A few of these weaknesses have now been dealt with through
          some of the actions included in this operation, and an action plan has been
          drafted to help the financial institutions of Morocco converge towards best
          international standards under the leadership of the CDVM                        Met
Condition 15: For the purpose of restructuring the Borrower's public financial
institutions, the Borrower has provided the evidence confirming compliance by "Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier"(CIH), for calendar year 2007, with Bank Al-Maghrib's (BAM)
prudential regulations.
     · A copy of a letter from the Ministry of Finance and Privatization dated June
          7, 2007, attesting of the respect of BAM's prudential regulation by the CIH
          was received by the Bank and deemed satisfactory. The CIH is today
          controlled by two strategic investors: the CDG and the French "Caisse
          Nationale des Caisses d'Epargne". Under a new governance structure, the



                                                       6

         CDG and the CNCE created a development partnership to re-center the bank
         on the financing of family needs. Since the end of 2006, the CIH has been             Met
         compliant with prudential requirements. (see box1. below)
Condition 16: Established a national committee for payment systems ("Comité national
des systèmes de paiements").
    · As of April 14, 2006, the Central Bank has established at the national level a
         Committee in charge of the payment system reform, its main objective is to
         improve the regulatory framework, the national coverage and the efficiency of
         processing for all payment instruments. The Committee's work is moving                Met
         along.
Condition 17: has launched the real time gross settlements system ("RTGS").
    · The Moroccan Real Time Gross Settlement System was officially launched on
         September 7, 2006 and is working in a satisfactory manner. The payment
         systems are being modernized and future efforts will address retail payments
         that are still largely cash-based. Reforms to build a more efficient payments
         system, led by the Central Bank, entail the upgrading of the institutional and
         legal framework governing payment, clearing and settlement systems.                   Met
Condition 18: adopted in its Council of Government a draft law on anti-money
laundering
    · The present condition called for a draft law submitted to the Council of
         Government, but on April 17, 2007, the draft law was actually adopted by
         Parliament. The law defines, notably, an offence of money laundering, sets
         out preventive measures for parts of the financial sector an designated non-
         financial business and professions. The authorities have made strides in
         implementing the AML/CFT law and are aware of the importance for
         Morocco to quickly implement a legal framework in line with international
         standards.


                           Box 1. Restructuring Public Financial Institutions

Banque Nationale pour le Développement Economique
BNDE has been largely liquidated. Its performing assets were transferred to CDG and CAM.

Crédit Immobilier et Hôtelier
The CIH balance sheet was restructured, and its ownership was overhauled with the entry of a leading
foreign bank (Caisse Nationale des Caisses d'Epargne, CNCE) as a strategic partner. This restructuring
represented a vote of confidence in the market-based approach. CIH strategic goal was redefined as
commercially competitive "bank of the family," mainly targeted at the growing market for housing finance.
CIH's largest shareholder, CDG, devised the restructuring plan in coordination with the authorities. CDG
increased its holding of CIH shares in the process--from about 20 to over 50 percent. As the largest
shareholder, CNCE demonstrated its commitment to putting CIH on a sustainable path. The restructuring
entailed the resolution of the stock of nonperforming loans and rebuilding of the capital base. Given its
wide experience in housing finance in France, CNCE is able to play a key role implementing the new CIH
strategy and business plan. The main operational challenge is to enhance competitiveness and recoup the
market share lost to domestic banks that have successfully developed mortgage and housing products.
CDG and CNCE today hold about 35 percent of CIH share holdings. With support from these partners and
shareholders, CIH was largely able to comply with prudential requirements by 2006

Crédit Agricole du Maroc
The CAM balance sheet is being restructured. Its capital base was rebuilt in parallel with strategic
repositioning of the bank. The long-standing rehabilitation of CAM is proceeding through an action plan
that addresses two key issues--capital adequacy and the bank's relationship to agriculture as one among
several activities. The operational restructuring plan aims at better banking operations--including improved
loan collection, a greater share of business in higher-yielding activities, and increased profit margins by
building necessary capital levels by end 2008. Moreover, the legal change to a "limited company" has made
CAM eligible for support from new private shareholders.


                                                       7

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

· The success of this operation and the work accomplished after project closing demonstrate
     the complete commitment of the Government of Morocco to the success of the project. This
     operation translated in concrete steps and actions the main recommendation of the 2002
     FSAP, as foundation of Bank's financial support has proven to be a very effective channel
     through which to deliver technical assistance to implement reforms, which makes it a good
     practice to underpin Bank technical assistance backed by financing. The success of the
     implementation also validated the decisions, at times courageous, taken by the Government to
     move forward on realizing the Project's Development Objective. Some of the measures
     required to meet the disbursement conditions involved the closing and/or restructuring of
     major institutions and therefore, carried a heavy human element that needed to be handled
     carefully. This could only be accomplished by a Government that was convinced of the
     benefits to growth of the financial sector reforms while aware of its risks and challenges.

· The soundness of the analysis underpinning the operation was a key factor affecting
     implementation. The 2002 FSAP provided a strong underpinning to the design of the
     operation. In addition, the accounting and auditing ROSC and prior studies were used to
     design the sub-components of the reform program. In designing the operation, the project
     team paid particular attention to the lessons learned from previous operations. "In the past,
     the World Bank involvement in the country has been less successful with reforms focusing on
     leveling the playing-field between the public and private financial institutions and on
     promoting reduced state ownership. One key lesson stemming from the Financial Sector
     Adjustment operations is the importance of: (i) dealing with the issue of non-performing
     loans and recognizing up-front the full economic cost of restructuring2; and (ii) promoting
     radical changed in the credit allocation policies by the restructured banks. Extended periods
     of regulatory forbearance are not a rigorous and sustainable way to restructuring."3 In
     addition, the team included in the design several recommendations from the FY01/04 CAS
     completion report. Specifically, the institutional capacity of the banking and insurance
     supervisors to handle the component on legal, regulatory and supervisory framework would
     be key to the success of the program. Therefore it was agreed that this component of the
     operation would be closely monitored during project supervision.

· The implementation was markedly enhanced by the quality of the communication and
     cooperation between the Government of Morocco, the project team and the Morocco country
     team at large. The project preparation was highly participatory and the dialogue optimal
     between the parties involved. All partners involved were aware that not all components of
     the project would provide even results; i.e. it was understood from the onset of the project
     that the reform of the insurance sector would have mitigated results at best. In implementing
     the project, the team was flexible enough to ensure that the desired steps were taken, without
     putting undue pressure on the authorities to take measures in a sector not yet ready for it.

· The risks were correctly identified and the mitigating measures appropriate:




2 The restructuring of the CIH was part of the FY96 Financial Sector Adjustment loan that did not achieve
its objective. In order to avoid repeating the same problem, the project team and the authorities insisted on
clear actions in the prerequisites. The design of the project in two tranches aimed at ensuring that the
medium-term components of the reform package would be implemented.
3 Financial Sector Development Policy Loan: Program Document, November 17, 2005, P.11.


                                                       8

Risks                                                     Mitigations
Social and political opposition could weaken the             · The reform agenda would be closely
government's resolve to pursue the macroeconomic                  monitored of the program and the WB and
reform agenda program                                             the Government will consult on further
                                                                  actions if required, to maintain the
                                                                  economy on a sustainable path.
                                                             · Many measures are centered on changes in
                                                                  the legal, regulatory and supervisory
                                                                  framework, which require no large public
                                                                  outlays.
This risk was correctly identified as Morocco was preparing for new elections, a new Government might
not be as convinced of the benefits of the reform. In addition, some of the reforms proposed required
actions that were not going to be very popular therefore the close monitoring proposed was relevant to
ensure continuous support to the authorities.
Inability for the authorities to finalize the legal texts    · The risk would be mitigated through the
and enforce the strengthened legal framework                      preparation of all regulations over the
within the operation's lifetime                                   operation's timeframe as reflected in the
                                                                  policy matrix and by supporting inter-alia
                                                                  through ongoing technical assistance from
                                                                  other donors, the banking and insurance
                                                                  supervisor's on-going efforts to implement
                                                                  their action plan.
Again, this risk was correctly identified. Even if the will was present, some weakness in the capacity might
have slowed down the implementation of the reform program.
Weakening Government commitment to CIH                       · The risk would in part be mitigated by the
restructuring given that the issue of non-performing              authorities' willingness to submit the CIH
loans needs to be addressed forcefully if the reform              business plan to a "market test", as one
program is to succeed                                             important foreign bank was willing to take
                                                                  a strategic 35% stake in CIH. A positive
                                                                  outcome would provide an important
                                                                  policy signal.
                                                             · The risk would also be mitigated through
                                                                  the detailed discussions engaged between
                                                                  the WB and the authorities on the key
                                                                  policy orientations pertaining to CIH
                                                                  restructuring   in  particular  through   a
                                                                  detailed letter to the Prime minister
                                                                  outlining the options available and the
                                                                  related decisions that would need to be
                                                                  made.

The risk identified was very relevant, the restructuring of this institution was inevitably going to include
difficult decisions including on the personnel of the establishment. A continuous dialogue and support was
vital to the success of this component.
Weakening Government commitment to CAM                       · The risk would in part be mitigated by
restructuring. Late recognition by the authorities of             locking in from the onset the main features
the extent of the remaining problems in CAM                       of CAM's restructuring plan.
coupled with significant demands on the authorities'
budget represent an important risk.
The risk identified was relevant for the same reasons as the preceding one.
Fiscal Costs of the operation: CIH restructuring will        · While the fiscal cost of the operation can
have relatively large fiscal costs since the state                only be slightly mitigated, even with the
provided guarantees to CIH covering its loans in the              possible scenario of the entry of new
tourism sector. In the case of CAM, the restoration               shareholders, particular attention given to
of the capital base in line with prudential                       the transparency of the restructuring



                                                         9

requirements will most likely entail the need for            mechanism will certainly mitigate to risk
funding from the government, unique shareholder.             of the ensuing possible unrest.
Lack of support of the judicial system in the            · To mitigate this risk as much as possible,
recovery of loans and realization of collateral values       the Project team has raised the issue with
and guarantees.                                              the authorities and emphasized the need for
                                                             a strong political signal from the outset, in
                                                             which the mobilization and association of
                                                             the Justice Ministry would be essential
This risk was correctly identified, the success of the reform program relied on a satisfactory
implementation of its components which depended heavily on the harmonized will of the different parties
involved, including the Ministry of Justice.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The excellent dialogue between the Government of Morocco and the Project team was an
essential element in the overall Monitoring and Evaluation of the operation. The choice of the
indicators (done in collaboration with the IMF) was particularly appropriate to not only measure
the progress made towards attainment of the PDO, but also to ensure that all the required steps
were put in placed in the right sequence for all conditions to be met within the project timeframe.

Again, the M&E of the project was made easier during implementation due to the excellent
dialogue between the Government of Morocco and the project team, but also between the project
team and the country Team. The "open lines" between all parties throughout the life of the project
offered a unique situation where the monitoring and exchange of data was almost continuous.

The indicators selected for the M&E of the project served their intended purpose. Their
corresponding data was provided on a regular basis. The analysis of the information on progress
made, the data received along with the confidence that the country team would act as a vigilant
and effective relay, helped management in deciding to reduce the amount of supervision visits
and de-facto the cost of the operation. In that respect, the present project was an example of good
practice where the optimal coordination between all parties involved leads to a successful project
with reduced operational costs wherever possible.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

Given the success of the present operation, it is very likely that the Government of Morocco will
request the support of the Bank for a follow-up operation. Following the reform of the banking
system, the next phase of the reform agenda should address the following sectors (as identified in
the November 2007, FSAP follow-up):
    · Improving the efficiency and competitiveness of Financial Sector Intermediation and
        Access to financial services;
    · Developing an effective Nonbank Financial segment; and
    · Building the institutional capacity to ensure the effective implementation of the new legal
        framework and modernized infrastructure.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The core part of this operation was the resolution of the problem caused by the formerly



                                                     10

specialized financial institutions that were paralyzing the banking system. The financial sector in
Morocco was dominated by a non performing banking sector that needed to be strengthened and
stabilized before other issues could be addressed. The PDO centered on enabling legal and
institutional environment for financial intermediation and risk management, and increasing
private sector role and participation in the provision of financial services were very relevant as
the restructuring of these banking institutions could not be accomplished without the reform of
the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework, nor without the strengthening of the financial
sector infrastructure. In addition, this objective was and remains perfectly relevant and in line
with the country's priorities to disengage gradually from the financial sector and foster an
enabling environment for the emergence of an efficient private sector led financial industry to
serve more efficiently the country's development and growth objective.

The design and implementation of the project were very relevant to the success of the operation,
from the choice of the instrument (DPL) to the decision to use 2 tranches each including all
components of the project to ensure continued focus on the success of the PDO.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

The PDO of this project was not only achieved, but as described in section 2.1, the Government
of Morocco has gone considerably beyond satisfying the disbursement conditions agreed upon at
project appraisal. The government's banking reforms have been anchored in the 2006 overall of
the central bank and banking laws. The financial sector's legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework has been significantly strengthened by the operation. The implementation of the new
framework has provided more autonomy to the Central Bank in conducting monetary policy and
banking supervision, while including a strengthened mandate to intervene in financially troubled
commercial banks through carefully specified procedure; and broadening the scope banking
supervision to cover institutions (CDG, microfinance, Postal services and associations) previously
excluded from regulatory oversight. The segment on regulation and supervision of the insurance
sector is probably the component of the project where the progress made is more mitigated. Some
improvement has certainly been made towards meeting international best practices in the
insurance regulation, supervision and internal controls and the liberalization of price for insurance
premia, but little else has been done beyond compliance with the disbursement conditions. It is
however important to note that from the onset of the project, the insurance component was
included in the operation to underscore a desire to ultimately move forward on reforming the
insurance sector. The project team was fully aware that the conditions were not yet "ripe" to
reform the sector and that little would be accomplished in this operation, but they agreed with the
authorities that the momentum created by the project could help move things along in order to
prepare the sector for actual reforms in a follow-up operation.

The legal, regulatory and supervisory framework of the capital market has been improved through
the commitment of the government to enhance the capacity and authority of the securities
regulator and completing and implementing the new legal framework applicable to capital
markets while taking steps necessary to comply with the international best practices stipulated by
IOSCO. The authorities have taken important strides in the financial sector's infrastructure,
accounting transparency and integrity, they have focused on three key areas: (i) developing a
more efficient payments system, including a real-time gross settlement system (RTGS) that was
rolled over in 2006, (ii) improving the availability, accuracy, and transparency of financial
information to enhance financial intermediation by setting up the Implementation Committee of
Accounting and Auditing Action Plan and strengthening the regulations for the securities market


                                                 11

related to the publication of consolidated financial statements; and (iii) strengthening the policies
and institutional apparatus of anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-financing of terrorism
(CFT). A law to fight money laundering has been recently enacted, CFT provisions were
incorporated and the banking regulator has issued customer due-diligence regulations.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Satisfactory

The government reforms supported by this DPL have achieved tangible results in reducing
financial sector vulnerabilities, especially as a result of the restructuring of ailing public
specialized financial institutions. Concerns over stability have eased and policy attention has now
been directed increasingly to core financial system development issue.
As of today, the formerly state owned banks are in an advanced state of restructuring and are in
compliance with prudential requirements. They have redefined their strategy, business plan and
market niche. As a result of the accomplishments of these reforms, a major policy objective of the
government was reached; the share of it's involvement in the banking sector has dropped from
40% in 2002 to 23% today.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
This operation did not include a Gender or Social Development component or disbursement
condition per se. However, by addressing the financial sector weaknesses through the
strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework and encouraging the restructuring of
banks and other institutions, the project's objective to improve efficiency of the financial sector is
expected to have a direct and positive impact on growth, employment and access to finance for all,
including in rural areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

This operation had an important and positive impact on Institutional strengthening. Most
importantly by granting the Central Bank a stronger, more autonomous role and the notably
improving the situation of the Country's major state owned financial institutions. With the launch
of the RTGS and the law on anti-money laundering, the operation also helped in improving the
overall integration of the banking institutions as well as the transparency of the financial sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The project did not have unintended outcomes or impacts But the progress accomplished went
beyond the actions strictly defined under the project, by advancing on the next phase of the
reform agenda.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not Applicable.




                                                 12

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
    Rating: Negligible to Low

The risk to Development Outcome for this operation is negligible. The political situation is quite
stable in the country and recent declarations from the new Prime Minister demonstrate the
continued commitment of the authorities to pursue the reform agenda, the Moroccan authorities
view the strengthening of the financial sector as part of their policy priorities. Within the gradual
public sector disengagement from the financial sector and strengthening of the private sector, the
authorities' actions led inter-alia, to i) greater competition and reduction of distortions in financial
sector intermediation: ii) modernization of the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework of the
financial system as a whole; iii) actions to reestablish balance within the pension system; iv)
launching the process of modernization of the payments system; and v) strengthening anti-money
laundering policies. The central bank has demonstrated commitment to strengthening the
operational framework and transparency policy allowing for improved liquidity management.

The only possible "low note" on the risk to development outcome relates to the insurance sector.
While the authorities are aware of the necessity to reform the sector, there appears to be less
energy and determination put in implementing reforms. The expectations were kept low at the
onset of the project, therefore the actual risk to development outcome is reduced, but future
project team would be encouraged to keep to insurance sector reform on the calendar and ensure
that more meaningful actions are taken.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
    Rating: Highly satisfactory

The project team paid particular attention to ensuring quality at entry for this operation. The
project was designed in close cooperation with the authorities taking into account both technical
and political aspects to ensure optimum adequacy of the operation. The policy reform agenda was
based on the recommendations of the 2002 FSAP, the accounting and auditing ROSC and the
IMF Article IV process, all advocating a strengthening of the financial sector legal and regulatory
framework. The project preparation also included a high level of coordination with the IMF
which provides technical assistance to the banking supervision department of the Central Bank,
and high level of consultation with market participants from all pillars of the financial sector and
professional associations.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
     Rating: Satisfactory

The very good design of the operation along with the right choice of indicators made for a highly
effective supervision on the part of the project team but also on the part of the Country team.
Candid and continuous dialogue resulted in a high level of trust between the parties involved.
This in turn translated in a timely and accurate supply of data and information, invaluable in the
team's evaluation of the progress made during project implementation. The Bank made the
judgment call that there was no need for more intense supervision. In retrospect, closer proximity



                                                    13

on the dialogue might have helped the authorities speed up implementation and advance to the
next stage of the reform and the preparation of follow-up activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

The rating of highly satisfactory is based on the following considerations: (i) the project was very
well designed, its PDO was in line with the Country's and the Bank's priorities, the indicators
were relevant and their analyses used appropriately in management decision; (ii) the Bank was
aware of the challenges involved in addressing the restructuring of major financial institutions but,
with the local authorities, took the educated risk to go forward, remained committed to the project
during its implementation, maintaining a continuous dialogue with the borrower in order to
ensure that all potential issues were addressed right a way and; (iii) the project team and the
country office developed an optimal level of cooperation that played a key role in the success of
the operation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Highly satisfactory

From the onset of the project, the Government of Morocco was in the "driver seat" seeking
advice from the Bank where needed to implement its strategic reform agenda. The authorities
remained focused on the success of the Development Objective and its importance in improving
growth and stability in the Country.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Highly satisfactory

The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank were the two entities responsible for the overall
implementation of the operation. The focus and commitment shown at the Central Government
level was also obvious in the performance of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. The
reporting and coordination of actions between the concerned agencies was efficient and timely
throughout the life of the project resulting in a successful operation that went far beyond
compliance with requirements. The availability and candid dialogue of all Moroccan counterparts
was quite instrumental in ensuring that all the disbursement conditions were met ahead of the
project closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Highly satisfactory

The rating of highly satisfactory is justified by the constant commitment demonstrated by the
borrower throughout the life of the project and beyond. This resulted in an efficient coordination
between the agencies involved in the operation, an optimal level of communication between all
parties involved, and significant advancements made in implementing the financial sector's
reform agenda.

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)
    · In policy based operations, the quality of the underpinning technical analysis is
        essential to a successful outcome. The success of the operation was due in large part to


                                                 14

       the authorities' constant commitment to the reforms and actions agreed upon. The quality
       of the technical analysis available (CAS, FSAP and Accounting and auditing ROSC) was
       crucial in engaging the authorities' commitment throughout the operation. It was the base
       for the policy dialogue and technical discussions during preparation and implementation
       of the project. (General application)

    · An efficient cooperation between the project team and the Country office team can
       lower the operational cost of a project. The supervision cost of this operation was
       reduced thanks to the quality of dialogue between the Country Office team and the
       Project team but also between the Country Office team and the borrower. Regular e-mails
       and phone conversations between the parties were sufficient to monitor the progress in
       implementation therefore management agreed with the team that a last supervision
       mission was not needed so long as the team continued in its dialogue to ensure that all
       steps to the reforms were taken.(General application)

    · The success of a reform program is due not only to legal measures taken, but also to
       the strengthening of the capacity of the institutions involved in the reform. The success
       of an operation cannot be left to commitment and goodwill alone. In the present operation,
       it was essential to ensure the institutional capacity of the banking and insurance
       supervisors to implement their component of the reform. Therefore a detailed action plan
       was prepared before appraisal and a high level of consultation took place during the
       drafting of the bulk of the regulations reflected in the policy matrix. (General application)

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

The borrower/implementing agency did not raise any issues regarding this operation.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                                15

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Samir El Daher           Senior Regional Financial Sector
                         Advisor                             MNSED

Jean Denis Pesme         Lead Financial Sector Specialist    FPDFI
Steve W. Wan Yan Lun     Senior Program Assistant            MNSED
Supervision
Catherine H. Burtonboy   Consultant                         MNSED
Didier Debals            Sr Financial Sector Spec.          MNSED
Samir El Daher           Senior Regional Financial Sect     MNSED



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                       14                        116.66
  FY05                                       28                        200.15
  FY06                                       13                         99.73
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                        Total:               55                        416.54
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                         1                         7.25
  FY07                                         7                        55.75
  FY08                                                                   5.60
                        Total:                 8                        68.60




                                          16

Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                    17

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                  18

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1. Contexte du projet, Objectifs de développement et Conception

Depuis le début des années 90, le Royaume du Maroc s'est engagé dans une
modernisation en profondeur de son secteur financier. Des progrès importants ont été
accomplis dans les différents compartiments de ce secteur. Le Maroc a ainsi instauré un
cadre légal et institutionnel favorable au développement du secteur et a édifié un secteur
bancaire globalement bien établi, solide et rentable. De même, des progrès notables ont
été accomplis sur la voie du développement du marché des capitaux.

Les autorités ont poursuivi l'élan de réformes, conscientes en cela de l'importance du
secteur, des défis auxquels il est confronté, et de la nécessité de poursuivre cet élan dans
un secteur caractérisé par des mutations profondes et rapides.

A cet égard, et tout en tenant compte des analyses et recommandations du Programme
d'évaluation du secteur financier (PESF) de 2002, le Maroc a entamé au cours des
dernières années une nouvelle phase de réformes ayant pour principaux objectifs de
renforcer la concurrence, moderniser le cadre légal et réglementaire du secteur financier,
élargir les prérogatives et renforcer l'indépendance de la Banque centrale et améliorer la
supervision du secteur financier, assainir définitivement la situation des institutions
financières publiques, développer l'épargne, rééquilibrer les systèmes de retraite et
moderniser les systèmes de paiements.

C'est dans ce cadre que s'inscrit le programme de développement du secteur financier qui
vise justement à accompagner et appuyer les efforts du Gouvernement du Royaume du
Maroc dans le cadre de la conception et la mise en oeuvre des axes de réforme retenus.

Les objectifs de développement du programme se présentent comme suit :

    (i)   l'amélioration du cadre juridique, réglementaire et de supervision pour le
          système financier;

    (ii)  la restructuration des institutions financières publiques; et

    (iii) le renforcement de l'infrastructure du secteur financier.

2. Principaux facteurs influant sur l'exécution et les résultats

La conception, le suivi et l'évaluation du projet se sont déroulés dans de bonnes
conditions grâce à une bonne conception du projet et à une collaboration étroite et un
dialogue permanent entre l'équipe du projet et les structures marocaines concernées par
les actions de réformes.

La partie marocaine a accordé un intérêt particulier à la réussite de ce projet. Les
engagements pris notamment au titre des conditions de décaissement de la première et de
la deuxième tranche ont été tous respectés.

La réussite de la mise en oeuvre de ce projet découle des principaux facteurs suivants :




                                               19

    Une volonté et un engagement forts de la part des pouvoirs publics pour la poursuite
    de la réforme du secteur financier ;

    Une confiance et une adhésion des acteurs du secteur financier marocain à la stratégie
    de développement du secteur retenue par les pouvoirs publics ;

    Un contenu de la réforme qui vient en continuité et en harmonie avec les réformes
    précédentes ;

    Une connaissance de la part de l'équipe de la Banque du secteur financier marocain et
    une compréhension des contraintes de la réforme ;

    Une préparation et une conception concertée du projet ;

    Une anticipation des risques que pouvait soulever le projet.

Il va sans dire que ce projet s'inscrit dans un processus continu de réforme du secteur
financier marocain que le Gouvernement entend poursuivre au cours des prochaines
années. L'expertise et l'accompagnement de la Banque seront certainement d'un grand
intérêt pour les autorités marocaines lors de la conception et la mise en oeuvre des
réformes envisagées. Les recommandations de la mission conjointe Banque
mondiale/FMI d'évaluation du secteur financier (PESF) d'octobre 2007 permettront de
contribuer à clarifier et compléter les nouveaux axes de réforme.

3. Résultats

Le principal objectif de développement de ce programme a été de renforcer
l'environnement juridique et institutionnel pour le rendre plus favorable à
l'intermédiation financière et la gestion des risques et d'accroître le rôle et la
participation du secteur privé dans la prestation de services financiers. Cet objectif
s'aligne parfaitement avec l'approche retenue par les pouvoirs publics au Maroc pour ce
secteur.

Globalement, l'ensemble des conditions de décaissement prévues dans le cadre du projet
a été satisfait et les OPD ont été tous réalisés dans de bonnes conditions :

(i)   l'amélioration du cadre juridique, réglementaire et de supervision pour le système
      financier :

L'adoption des nouveaux statuts de Bank Al-Maghrib et de la nouvelle loi bancaire a
permis de renforcer le cadre juridique, réglementaire et de supervision du secteur
bancaire. Ce nouveau cadre étend les prérogatives et renforce l'indépendance de la
Banque Centrale, notamment dans la conduite de la politique monétaire et de la
supervision bancaire.

De son côté, le cadre juridique, réglementaire et de supervision du marché des capitaux a
été fortement renforcé à travers notamment la consolidation des capacités et de l'autorité
du Conseil déontologique des valeurs mobilières et l'amélioration du cadre juridique
applicable au marché des capitaux et de la complétude des instruments financiers
disponibles. La régulation et la supervision du secteur des assurances ont été également
améliorées.

(ii)  la restructuration des institutions financières publiques :



                                              20

Les pouvoirs publics ont lancé un vaste chantier de consolidation du secteur financier
public à travers la restructuration et le repositionnement des institutions financières
publiques sur la base d'une approche de marché. Les principales institutions concernées
sont le Crédit Immobilier et Hôtelier (CIH), la Banque Nationale pour le Développement
Economique (BNDE) et le Crédit Agricole du Maroc (CAM). Une approche différenciée
a été adoptée pour tenir compte des spécificités, du champ d'activité et du potentiel de
développement de chaque institution.

Le point commun de toutes ces restructurations a été la recherche d'une solution viable
basée sur une analyse du positionnement stratégique et du projet industriel de chaque
institution.

Ainsi, le CIH et le CAM, dont le positionnement stratégique était avéré et qui
présentaient un projet industriel viable, ont été accompagnés à travers la mise en oeuvre
des réformes et mesures nécessaires, la rénovation de leur mode de gouvernance, la
clarification de leur positionnement commercial, la consolidation de leur assise financière
et la recomposition de leur tour de table dans un esprit d'ouverture sur le privé. L'objectif
étant d'asseoir le développement de ces institutions sur la base d'objectifs de
performance associés à un business plan approprié.

Lorsque le positionnement de l'institution ne permettait pas d'envisager un projet
industriel viable, l'Etat a procédé à un repositionnement stratégique et commercial à
même de maintenir une structure viable et porteuse. C'est à ce titre que la BNDE a été
redéployée en banque d'affaires adossée à la Caisse de Dépôt et de Gestion (CDG). Ce
processus a été mené dans le cadre d'une vision d'ensemble du secteur financier public
qui a permis de renforcer le pôle banque d'affaires de la CDG tout en développant le
réseau d'agences du CAM en milieu urbain, qui a acquis le réseau commercial de la
BNDE.

Le programme de développement du secteur financier a été d'un grand intérêt pour le
soutien des efforts du Maroc à ce titre.

(iii) le renforcement de l'infrastructure du secteur financier.

Les principales actions entreprises au titre de ce volet ont porté sur la promulgation d'une
loi portant sur la lutte contre le blanchiment de capitaux et le financement du terrorisme,
de mesures visant l'amélioration de la qualité de l'information financière et des normes
d'audit ainsi que sur l'établissement d'un Comité chargé de la réforme du système des
paiements et le lancement d'un système de règlement en temps réel.

Ces réformes contribueront notamment à drainer l'épargne pour le financement de
l'économie et l'investissement et, partant, à soutenir la croissance économique, la
création de richesses et d'emplois et l'accès des ménages à faible revenu aux services
financiers. De son côté, l'assainissement et le redressement des Institutions Financières
Publiques (IFP) contribuera à la consolidation de la situation des finances publiques
(moins de dépenses publiques et plus de recettes fiscales).




                                             21

4. Justification du classement du risque pour le résultat en matière de
développement

Dans la mesure où ce programme s'insère dans un long processus de réforme voulu et
engagé par le Gouvernement depuis plus d'une décennie et qu'il a été conçu de manière
concertée et cohérente, la réalisation des objectifs qui lui ont été assignés ne s'est pas
trouvée confrontée à un risque significatif.

5. Evaluation de la performance de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur

La Banque Mondiale : La Banque a toujours été un partenaire de choix pour le
Gouvernement du Royaume du Maroc dans plusieurs réformes sectorielles, et notamment
celle relative au secteur financier. L'accompagnement de l'équipe projet de la Banque,
depuis l'identification jusqu'à l'achèvement du projet, a contribué à sa mise en oeuvre
réussie.

La conception du projet s'est faite en parfaite coordination entre l'équipe de la Banque et
les structures marocaines concernées. Elle s'est basée notamment sur les conclusions et
recommandations du PESF. Le projet était également en ligne avec les priorités du
Gouvernement dans le secteur financier.

La supervision s'est déroulée dans de bonnes conditions avec un maintien des canaux de
dialogue et de concertation entre les parties tout au long du projet, ce qui a permis
d'avancer favorablement dans la mise en oeuvre du projet.

L'emprunteur : La partie marocaine, riche de l'expérience acquise depuis le début des
années 90 dans la réforme de son secteur financier et consciente de l'importance de ce
secteur dans le développement et la croissance de son économie, a érigé la poursuite de sa
réforme en une de ses principales priorités.

A cet égard, le programme de développement du secteur financier mené avec la Banque a
constitué une opportunité pour accélérer la cadence des réformes envisagées et profiter de
l'expertise et de l'assistance technique de la Banque.

Ainsi, les structures en charge de la conception et la mise en oeuvre du projet ont oeuvré
pour faire aboutir ce projet et ont mobilisé toutes les ressources nécessaires pour assurer
sa réussite.

Le Ministère des Finances a assuré avec succès la coordination et la supervision du projet
et a facilité les contacts entre l'équipe de la Banque et les autres entités marocaines
concernées par la réforme.

6. Enseignements tirés

Les principaux enseignements tirés sur les facteurs derrière la réussite de la mise en
oeuvre d'un programme de développement sectoriel peuvent être résumés comme suit :

    Le programme doit s'insérer dans le cadre d'une stratégie arrêtée par le pays et à
    laquelle adhèrent les opérateurs du marché. Cette stratégie doit être viable et
    clairement définie ;

    Les conditionnalités du programme de réforme devraient être limitées en nombre et se
    concentrer sur les objectifs et axes primordiaux du programme. Nous estimons que


                                             22

les conditionnalités devraient évoluer de « conditionnalités d'instrument » vers des
« conditionnalités de résultats ou de performances » appuyées sur la réalisation
d'objectifs finaux de la politique appuyée ;

Le rôle des institutions nationales chargées de la supervision du projet en terme de
conception, de coordination et de suivi de la mise en oeuvre du projet est central pour
la réussite de toute réforme.

L'apport en expertise de l'équipe projet de la Banque est d'une forte valeur ajoutée et
devrait être renforcé.




                                        23

Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    24

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Morocco FSAP 2002
Morocco: Accounting and Auditing ROSC
Project PID
Project Document
Project ISRs
Project Aide-memoires
Project tranche release memo




                                     25

