Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15695
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GABONESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
(LOAN 3759-GA)
June 11, 1996
Country Operations I
Central African and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =         CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFA franc is pegged to the French Franc at the rate of FF I =CFAF100
Fiscal Year            US$l=CFAF
1994                   555.20
1995                   506.50
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                            U.S. Equivalent
I meter (m)                =      3.2 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =      0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)   =      0.39 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)             =      2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)           =      2,205 pounds (lb)
I kilogram (kg)            =      2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFAF           :   Franc of the Central African Financial Cooperation
ERL            :   Economic Recovery Loan
FTID           :   Levy for Computerized Processing of Customs
MTNECOFfN    :   Ministry of Economy and Finance
GR             :   Gabonese Republic
SEEG           :   National Water and Electricity Company
UDEAC          :   Customs Unions of Central African States
VAT            :   Value Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GABONESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
Loan 3759-GA
Table of Contents
Page
Evaluation Summary .....................................................i
PART I.   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION .....................................................1
Country Background ..................................................... 1I
The Devaluation and the Economic Recovery Loan ......................................1
1. STATEMENT A ND  EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ................................2
11. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES ....................................................3
1. Macroeconomic Policy .....................................................3
2. Structural Reforms .....................................................4
3. Sectoral Policies ....................................................               6
111. MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ...................................7
A. Factors under the Control of the Authorities ........................7..................7
B. Factors Beyond the Control of the Authorities ........................................8
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ........................8
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT ................ 9
Bank Performance .....................................................9
Borrower Performance ....................................................               10
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS .....................................................10
VII. MAJOR  LESSONS AND  CONCLUSIONS .............................................. 10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onry in the performance of their
official dudies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART H.    BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .............. 12
Annex  1      Action  Matrix .....................................................  24
Annex 2       Social sectors - Public expenditures .......................... 27
PART HI.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................... 28
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments.                          28
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans                                29
Table 3:   Project Timetable .30
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements .31
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation .32
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation              34
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project.                     34
Table 8a:  Project Costs .35
Table 8b:  Project Financing .35
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits .36
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants in Loan Agreement     37
Table 11:    Bank Resources - Staff Inputs                     38
Table 12:    Use of Bank Resources - Missions.                39
APPENDIXES .....................................................     40
A. Actions taken by the Government as conditions of disbursement
B. Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GABONESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
LOAN 3759-GA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Loan
(ERL) to the Gabonese Republic, for which Loan 3759-GA in the amount of $30 million
was approved on June 21, 1994 and made effective on September 16, 1994. The credit
was released in its entirety upon effectiveness. It was fully disbursed on October 17,
1994.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Lionel Laurant, Consultant (AF3CO) and reviewed by Mr.
Jerome Chevallier, Country Operations Division Chief and Ms. Nichola Dyer Cisse,
Country Economist. The Borrower provided its own assessment of the project which is
included as part II of the ICR.
The ICR is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by
providing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and execution.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GABONESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
LOAN 3759-GA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Gabon is a Central African country with a population of just over I million
growing at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. It is well endowed with natural resources,
including timber, manganese, uranium, and oil. The country, however, is confronted with
deep-rooted financial and structural imbalances and is still striving to promote sustainable
economic and social development, as well as to diversify its export base. The sharp
decline in world oil prices during 1976-77 and again in 1986-87 caused major disruptions
in economic activity and government spending, and contributed to a steep expansion in
external public debt and government payments arrears.  Adversely impacted by the
growing overvaluation of the CFA Franc, compounded by a significant decline in the
terms of trade, Gabon's overall financial situation deteriorated.
2.    The Government adopted a Development Policy program in the aftermath of the
devaluation of the CFA franc (effective January 12, 1994). The program's objectives
were to restore the competitiveness of the economy and lay the basis for growth and
poverty alleviation. It was supported by an Economic Recovery Loan of US$ 30 million,
as well as an lNfF Stand-by arrangement. The ERL was appraised, negotiated and
brought to the Board in three months, following exceptional procedures. To consolidate
the early gains from the devaluation, it was made available in one tranche after
effectiveness.
Loan Objectives
3.    The loan was designed to provide emergency support for the Government's
program of economic recovery to complement the parity adjustment of January 12, 1994.
The program covered: (i) macroeconomic policies designed to re-establish the conditions
for balanced growth; (ii) structural reforms to promote free and efficient markets, redefine
the role of government and minimize the impact of the devaluation on the social sectors;
and (iii) sectoral policies to reduce government involvement in the economy and
strengthen its capacity to provide basic services to the population. In coordination with its
partrers in the regional economic and customs union (UDEAC), the authorities undertook
a far-reaching tax and tariff reform aimed at simplifying the tax system and reducing
imporL tariffs. The Government fulfilled a number of conditions prior to disbursement (see
Appendix A).



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Program  implementation was satisfactory  overall, although weaknesses in
administrative capacity resulted in delayed implementation of structural measures and left
Gabon's reform  agenda unfinished.   The economy responded positively to the
improvement in competitiveness that followed the devaluation.  Fiscal performance
improved appreciably under the program, while the increase in the civil service wage bill
was contained at 10 percent as targeted. A value added tax was introduced in April 1995
to replace all other domestic indirect taxes on domestically produced goods.  The
authorities were successful in carrying out ambitious trade and fiscal reforms, and
preliminary action was taken to improve public enterprise performance and reduce the
burden of these enterprises on public finances.
Sustainability of Results and Future Operations
5.    Sustainability of results hinges on the pursuit of appropriate macroeconomic
policies and the implementation of a program of supporting reforms that will consolidate
the gains in external competitiveness, stimulate private sector growth, and strengthen the
capacity of government to deliver basic services to the population. The ERL-supported
program has re-established a real exchange rate consistent with economic competitiveness,
while substantial tax and tariff reforms were implemented to unleash Gabon's growth
potential in the non-oil private sector and create an environment propitious to private
investment.
6.    Ongoing projects include a Transport/Urban Technical Assistance Project and a
Forestry and Environment Project. The Bank is preparing a Public Enterprise Reform
Technical Assistance Operation to assist the Government in the disengagement from
productive activities, and preparations are under way for a Pilot Agricultural Extension
Services project.
Lessons and Conclusions
7.    The Economic Recovery Loan aimed to support the Government's program to
restore the competitiveness of the Gabonese economy and lay the basis for growth and
poverty alleviation. Program results were satisfactory overall. Most of the requirements
established under the ERL were met, laying the basis on which deeper reforms could be
built. Despite close monitoring by the Bank, however, program implementation was
affected by weaknesses in administrative capacity and financial management on the part of
the authorities.
8.    The ERL implementation record suggests that administrative and social rigidities
may significantly hinder the actual fulfillment of agreed measures.  Weaknesses in
implementation capacity and resistance to reform are best addressed through early
investment in: (i) setting up appropriate institutions and mechanisms to monitor progress



iii
and implement measures; and (ii) building consensus on reform and mobilizing the support
from socio-economic groups critical to program implementation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GABONESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
LOAN 3759-GA
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
Country Background
1.    Gabon is a Central African country with a population of just over I million
growing at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. After gaining independence in 1960, Gabon
opted for a single-party system of government, which prevailed until multiparty
presidential elections were held in December 1993. Municipal and legislative elections are
scheduled for 1996, followed by Presidential elections in 1998.
2.    Gabon is well endowed with natural resources, including timber, manganese,
uranium, and oil. The country, however, is confronted with deep-rooted financial and
structural imbalances and is still striving to promote sustainable economic and social
development, as well as to diversify its export base. The sharp increase in world oil prices
in the early 1970s and 1980s boosted government revenue which, along with heavy
recourse to foreign borrowing, accommodated an ambitious public investment program, a
generous pay policy for civil servants and other public sector employees, and recurring
extra-budgetary outlays.  At the same time, the "oil syndrome" contributed to the
crowding out of other industries in the tradable goods sector. The sharp decline in world
oil prices in 1976-77 and again in 1986-87 caused major disruptions in economic activity
and government spending, and contributed to a steep expansion in external public debt
(from I percent of GDP in 1965 to 54 percent by 1993) and government payments
arrears. Gabon, however, remains at the top of the per capita income bracket in sub-
Saharan Africa (US$ 3,770 in 1994).
The Devaluation and the Economic Recovery Loan
3.    The adjustment of the Gabonese economy to the worsening external environment
during 1985-93 was relatively modest, relying mainly on a deflationary policy that led to a
stagnation of real GDP, despite a strong increase in oil output. The strategy entailed large
cuts in government investment and a reduction in the budget deficit, but failed to achieve
significant progress in lowering the high labor costs. Adversely impacted by the growing
overvaluation of the CFA Franc, compounded by a 46 percent decline in the terms of trade
during the period, Gabon' s overall financial situation deteriorated.
4.    The Government adopted a Development Policy program in the aftermath of the
devaluation of the CFA franc (effective January 12, 1994). The program's objectives
were to restore the competitiveness of the economy and lay the basis for growth and



2
poverty alleviation. It was supported by an Economic Recovery Loan of US$ 30 million,
as well as a twelve-month Stand-by arrangement approved by the IMF on March 30,
1994. Bank assistance was justified by: (i) the necessity to support the Government's
post-devaluation reform program; (ii) the need for a rapid intervention to ensure that the
price and incentive effects of the exchange rate action would be accompanied by
appropriate measures to achieve a lasting improvement in competitiveness and growth;
and (iii) the opportunity to break with a period of several years during which Bank
involvement in Gabon had been limited by the absence of a sustainable macroeconomic
framework and weak commitment to reforms. The ERL was appraised, negotiated and
brought to the Board in three months, following exceptional procedures. To consolidate
the early gains from the devaluation, it was made available in one tranche after
effectiveness.
I. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
5.    The loan was designed to provide emergency support for the Government's
program of economic recovery to complement the parity adjustment of January 12, 1994.
The program covered: (i) macroeconomic policies designed to re-establish the conditions
for balanced growth; (ii) structural reforms to promote free and efficient markets, redefine
the role of government and minimize the impact of the devaluation on the social sectors;
and (iii) sectoral policies to reduce government involvement in the economy and
strengthen its capacity to provide basic services to the population. The Government
fulfilled a number of conditions prior to loan disbursement (see Appendix A). Notably, in
coordination with its partners in the regional economic and customs union (UDEAC), the
authorities undertook a far-reaching tax and tariff reform aimed at simplifying the tax
system and reducing import tariffs.
6.    The scope of the ERL's objectives was commensurate with the extent of the
economic and financial crisis confronting the country. The deflationary process in recent
years, triggered by adverse external conditions (50 percent drop in oil prices in 1986,
overvaluation of the CFAF) compounded by poor economic management, had left Gabon
with legacies incompatible with sustainable development: an overextended and deficit-
ridden public sector; a deteriorating physical and human capital base and declining
productivity; and deepening poverty. The ERL was also well in line with the Country
Assistance Strategy, and provided a consistent response to the parity change of the CFAF.
7.    Swift availability of funds was justified by the need to capitalize on the momentum
created by the devaluation.  It remains uncertain, however, whether the Gabonese
economy, served by oil reserves that turned the country into the richest nation in
continental sub-Saharan Africa, was in need for immediate Bank support following the
devaluation.



3
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Gabon's performance under the ERL-supported program was satisfactory. Within
a much improved macroeconomic framework, the authorities were successful in carrying
out ambitious trade and fiscal reforms. The traditional export sector (oil, timber, mining)
responded positively to the improvement in competitiveness that followed the devaluation,
while preliminary action was taken in the public enterprise sector to improve performance
and reduce the burden of these enterprises on public finances. Implementation of the
structural reforms suffered substantial delays, however, and the reform agenda remains
unfinished.
1. Macroeconomic Policy
9.    Agenda: Macroeconomic objectives under the Government's post-devaluation
reform program included: re-establishing the conditions for balanced growth through
realization of the potential competitiveness gains of the devaluation; stabilizing the debt
ratio by 1995 through primary budget surpluses (4.1 percent of non-oil GDP in 1994 and
14 in 1995); maintaining the new parity of the CFA franc with the French franc without
undue compression of credit to the economy; and controlling inflation (expected to reach
about 33 percent in 1994).
10.   Results: The economy responded positively to the improvement in competitiveness
that followed the devaluation (the real effective exchange rate, based on relative consumer
prices, declined by 30 percent in 1994). The inflation rate was contained at 36 percent in
1994 (only slightly above the program target), thus limiting the erosion in exchange rate
adjustment. Overall, the structure of relative prices and economic incentives improved
markedly, as reflected in an unprecedented current account surplus of 7 percent of GDP in
1994 (from a 1.1 percent deficit in 1993).
11.   Fiscal performance improved appreciably in 1994.  While total government
expenditure was kept significantly below program levels, higher-than-expected oil revenue
more than offset a shortfall in non-oil revenue. As a result, the primary, budget surplus
rose from 1.9 percent of non-oil GDP in 1993 to 9.5 percent in 1994 (facilitating
repayments to the banking system and of domestic arrears), and the overall deficit as a
percentage of GDP was cut by more than two thirds to 1.8 percent in 1994. Strong
activity in the non-oil sector and higher oil exports boosted government revenue in the
first half of 1995, but significant fiscal slippages during the period (large repayments of
domestic arrears and high government expenditure) more than offset the revenue surplus
and resulted in an accumulation of external payments arrears.
12.   Monetary developments in 1994 were marked by a strong recovery in money
demand and a substantial improvement in the net foreign assets position of the banking
system. In the face of an improved profit and liquidity position of the private sector and a
contraction in industrial output, bank credit to the private sector declined modestly during
1994, but picked up strongly in early 1995. After a strong acceleration in the first months



4
following the devaluation, inflationary pressures abated, owing mainly to wage restraint
and the accompanying measures implemented by the Government.   Despite the
introduction of an 18 percent value-added tax in April, as well as upward adjustments in
public utility rates and retail petroleum product prices, inflation is projected to reach 5.8
percent in 1995 -- a level more consistent with the fixed exchange rate with the French
franc.
2. Structural Reforms
13.   Agenda: Gabon's post-devaluation reform program entailed measures to grant
greater freedom to markets and redefine the role of Government. In pursuit of this
objective, reforms to be implemented under the ERL included: fostering competition;
liberalizing external trade; establishing more efficient energy pricing; minimizing the
impact of the devaluation on the social sectors; establishing a less penalizing tax system
and introducing a value added tax; organizing consultations with employers and unions for
a possible revision of the Labor Code; limiting the increase in the wage bill to 10 percent
in 1994; and simplifying and reducing the cost of approval and other administrative
procedures involved in the establishment of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and
industries (SMIs).
14.   Results: Compelition - Measures to strengthen competition on the domestic
market were largely implemented. Substantial price and trade liberalization was achieved
prior to loan disbursement, and a redrafted Law on Competition is awaiting Parliament
approval. However, quantitative restrictions on sugar imports were not lifted by January
1996 as targeted.
15.   Trade policy - The external trade regime was liberalized significantly. In the wake
of the parity change, and in the context of UDEAC reforms, import tariffs were reduced
sharply to a range of 5-30 percent (the average tariff dropped from 27.4 percent in 1993
to 19.2 percent in 1994); several tax exemptions were eliminated; the system of
import/export licenses was revoked; import quotas were abolished (except for sugar); and
export taxes were eliminated (except for wood and mineral products) or simplified (for
wood). To complement these reforms, tax and customs duty exemptions granted to
certain enterprises under special agreements are being renegotiated with a view to
broadening the tax base, and no new exemptions have been granted. Elimination of
exemptions will require concerted action at the sub-regional level.
16.   Finally, while the levies on imports to finance the CGC (Conseil Gabonais des
Chargeurs) and CGCE (Centre Gabonais du Commerce Exterieur) were abolished, a bill is
to be passed that re-introduces the provisions of a 1992 ordinance requiring the payment
of fees by managers of ore and oil tankers. Further, the authorities failed to reduce the
customs data processing fee (FTID) from 2 percent to 0.5 percent of c.i.f. value as
targeted. The upholding of the FTID tax on imports is not consistent with the trade
liberalization undertaken in Gabon under the program and, despite overall satisfactory
implementation, remains an important outstanding issue.



5
17.   Fiscal reform - A value added tax system has been in place since April 1, 1995, at
a single rate of 18 percent. It replaces all other domestic indirect taxes (with the exception
of certain excise taxes) on domestically produced goods and, to that extent, supports local
production. The next step is to expand the base of firms participating in the VAT (about
600, the largest in terms of sales, have been included).  As conditions of loan
disbursement, and to establish more efficient energy pricing, fiscal levies on petroleum
products were lowered and prices paid to the refinery were linked to import parity prices.
Reflecting the introduction of the value added tax, and as a way to obviate the need for
government subsidies, electricity charges were raised by roughly 15 percent and prices of
petroleum products by an average of 7 percent.
18.   Labor sector - The increase in the civil service wage bill was contained at 10
percent in 1994 as targeted, while wage increases in the private sector averaged about 15
percent, contributing to the satisfactory inflation rate recorded in 1994. The Labor Code
had been aimed at liberalizing the modalities for hiring and releasing labor by private and
public enterprises (while providing for adequate safeguards).   However, it was
substantially amended by the National Assembly, and the revised version has not removed
all constraints to labor mobility and job growth. The Government has committed itself to
remedy these deficiencies.
19.   Better efficiency of the labor market has been aided by the Office National de
l'Emploi and the Fonds d'Insertion et de Reinsertion. These counseling and financing
bodies, which began operating in early 1994, aim at: (i) monitoring labor supply and
demand and ensuring the widest possible dissemination of information on employment
opportunities, and (ii) providing those seeking employment with guidance in line with their
skills and market needs. The functioning of the Fonds d'Insertion et de Reinsertion has
been seriously hampered, however, by a lack of financing by the Government.
20.   Social sectors - As condition of loan disbursement, the budget allocations to
National Education and Public Health were adjusted to reflect cost increases resulting
from the parity change. These sectors, however, remain affected by a low efficiency of
public expenditure due to inadequate internal allocation, as reflected in relatively low
social indicators.
21.   Facilitationi - No progress was made on simplifying and reducing the cost of
approval and other administrative procedures involved in the establishment of enterprises.
Even if account is taken of the abolishment of the system of import/export licenses under
the program, as well as ongoing preparations for the revision of the business legislation
and the establishment of a new Investment Code, the Gabonese authorities have yet to
show significant action to improve the institutional and legal framework for private sector
development.



6
3. Sectoral Policies
22.   Agenda: The authorities' post-devaluation reform  program  entailed sectoral
policies designed to: (i) develop output in the key sectors of the economy (agricultural and
forestry sectors, energy sector, social sectors) and improve performance; (ii) set
administered prices at levels that reflect real costs; and (iii) reduce the burden of public
enterprises on public finances.
23.   Results: The structure of relative prices and economic incentives improved
markedly under the program. A decline in real household disposable income following the
devaluation gave rise to a sharp contraction in real domestic demand and non-oil output,
but a strong pickup in oil production allowed for an increase of 1.7 percent in total GDP
in 1994. Benefiting from improved competitiveness and increased foreign demand,
forestry exploitation remained buoyant in 1994; production of manganese increased by
11.3 percent while, with a stabilization of output in agriculture, value added in the primary
sector grew by an estimated 9.2 percent in real terms. In contrast, reflecting a reduced
real household disposable income, real output dropped in the secondary and tertiary
sectors by 4 percent and 3 percent respectively.
24.   In addition to the liberalization measures discussed above, producer prices were
raised by 33 percent for cocoa and 50 percent for coffee for the 1994 season. Further,
emergency programs aimed at reducing operating costs and introducing rates adjustments
were put in place by the Government to improve the financial performance of the four
public enterprises deemed most exposed to the impact of the parity change (Air Gabon,
the electricity and water company SEEG, the oil refinery company SOGARA, and the post
and telecommunication company OPT-TIG). As a result of these measures, the total
losses incurred by these enterprises in 1994 were contained at CFAF 23.2 billion, less than
half the devaluation-induced increase in costs (estimated at some CFAF 51 billion) for the
year. In addition, with assistance from the Bank, a far-reaching program of public
enterprise reform has been adopted by the government, entailing the preparation of a
privatization law (approved by the National Assembly in January 1996), the restructuring
or divestiture of key public utilities and firms in which the Govemment has a minority
interest, the elimination of government subsidies, and the clearing of cross-debts and
arrears.
25.   Output growth and improvement of social indicators in Gabon remain predicated
on the definition of clear sectoral policies by ministries. Notwithstanding some progress in
the preparation of a new Investment Code, aimed at enhancing the transparency of the
existing framework for promoting private investment (particularly in the mining and
forestry sectors), the lack of a clearly defined line of conduct in this respect remains an
impediment to private sector development and efficiency of the economy.



7
III. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors under the Control of the Authorities
26.   Weaknesses in implementation capacity and financial management, reflecting a
failure to sufficiently internalize the program and create an effective mechanism for
forceful and timely government action, affected program implementation in four different
respects:
(i) no progress was made toward the introduction of simplified administrative
procedures for the establishment of enterprises, and the customs data processing
fee (FTID) was not reduced as targeted;
(ii) although fiscal performance in 1994 was broadly on track, resulting in a significant
improvement in the fiscal position, a shortfall in non-oil receipts was recorded in
the period, resulting from a slower-than-expected expansion in the tax base
(particularly taxable imports) and delays in eliminating customs exemptions
granted to certain enterprises under special agreements and adjusting export taxes
on wood and manganese. Delays were also recorded in: (a) eliminating the levy on
imports to finance the Conseil Gabonais des Chargeurs and Centre Gabonais du
Commerce Exterieur contributions; (b) applying the VAT to oil company imports
(despite intense efforts by the authorities), as well as to the subcontractors of
companies benefiting from tax exemptions; and (c) adapting public enterprises to
the post-devaluation environment;
(iii) the quantitative restriction on sugar imports was not lifted by January 1996 as
targeted. In any event, this restriction is to be replaced for a three-year period by a
surcharge of 30 percent, so that the degree of liberalization in the sector will
remain tenuous for the period (the surcharge, combined with the normally
applicable import duties, would actually bring duties to a total 83 percent of the
c.i.f value). Indeed, a recent FAO estimate (December 1995) shows that, even if
account is taken of the proposed surcharge, the retail price of imported sugar
would be over 25 percent below that of domestically produced sugar.  A
nationwide controversy, nourished by the fear of bankruptcy of the local producer,
jeopardizes the chances of a possible lifting of the quota as targeted - despite
potentially substantial cost cuts (from 30 to 40 percent according to the FAO);
(iv) weaknesses in transparency and effectiveness of use of public financial resources
exacerbated concerns about governance during program implementation,
contributing to the shortfall in nonproject external assistance in 1994. These are
being remedied in the context of the three-year program approved by the IMF in
late 1995.



8
Factors beyond the Control of the Authorities
27.   Program implementation was also affected by a devaluation-induced fall in income
and the limits imposed by regional economic integration: (i) a decline in real household
disposable income following the devaluation resulted in a sharp contraction in domestic
demand (8.6 percent). As a result, non-oil output declined by an estimated 3 percent,
affecting fiscal performance under the program; (ii) the necessity for concerted action at
the sub-regional level affected progress in eliminating tax and customs duty exemptions.
On the other hand, economic performance was helped by favorable world market oil
prices, contributing to the higher-than-expected oil revenue under the program.
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
28.   The ERL-supported program has re-established a real effective exchange rate
consistent with economic competitiveness (with a substantially lower rate of inflation),
improving substantially the structure of relative prices and economic incentives. It has
resulted in significant fiscal reforms (including the introduction of a value added tax) and
progress toward more efficient energy pricing. Most government controls on prices have
been lifted, and substantial trade liberalization has been undertaken to unleash Gabon's
growth potential in the non-oil private sector and create an environment propitious to
private investment.  Preliminary action was taken in the public enterprise sector to
improve performance and reduce the burden of these enterprises on public finances.
29.   Gabon's performance under the program was satisfactory overall, providing a
necessary base on which deeper reforms could be built. Sustainability of results remains
heavily dependent on the pursuit of appropriate macroeconomic policies and the
implementation of a program of supporting reforms that will consolidate the gains in
external competitiveness, stimulate private sector growth, and strengthen the capacity of
government to deliver basic services to the population.
30.   Consolidation of the gains from the ERL-supported program also hinges on the
improvement of public financial resources management. The fiscal slippages that occurred
in the first half of 1995, and came to light later during the year, illustrate the fragility of the
progress toward more transparency and efficiency in government financial management.
With technical assistance from the IMF, however, measures to improve budgetary
procedures and strengthen the authorities' monitoring capacity are now being
implemented.



9
V. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank Performance
31.   The Bank's performance in the design and monitoring of the Economic Recovery
Loan was satisfactory overall:
(i) Design: the Economic Recovery Loan provided a consistent response to the parity
change of the CFA Franc, contributing to the establishment of a solid base on which
deeper reforms could be built. It was also well in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy. The Bank's performance in the design of the project, however, may have failed
to fully appreciate the administration's capacity limitations.  Program ownership and
administrative coordination would have been served by strengthened high-level
committees to focus on the implementation and monitoring of the program.
Swift availability of funds was justified by the need to capitalize on the momentum created
by the devaluation. The Loan provided a pragmatic response to the parity change, but
could not fully address the deep-rooted rigidities of the Gabonese economy:
(a) the management of public financial resources remains affected by insufficient
transparency and discipline in government financial management, as well as
weaknesses in effectively monitoring overall fiscal developments;
(b) the development of the non-oil private sector remains impeded by rigidities in the
institutional and legal framework, strong government involvement in productive
activities, and large government domestic payments arrears;
(c) the social infrastructure and services remain inappropriate, and protection of the
most vulnerable groups from the negative impact of the devaluation could have
been strengtherned by reforming the pharmaceutical distribution system, or
implementing labor-intensive public works (as in the ongoing Urban/Transport
Technical Assistance project);
(d) the civil service remains inefficient and overextended.
(ii) Monitoring: close monitoring by the Bank was instrumental in focusing assistance on
key activities for the success of the program. In addition to three supervision missions,
program implementation was monitored in the context of a joint Bank/IMF Public
Expenditure Review and the preparatory work for technical assistance to privatization.



10
Borrower Performance
32.   Government performance under the program was satisfactory overall. Despite
early progress in meeting up-front conditionalities (notably, Gabon took the leadership
within UDEAC in reducing tariff protection immediately after the devaluation),
weaknesses in administrative capacity and financial management, compounded by a legacy
of heavy-handed public intervention in the economy, affected program implementation.
The exceptional procedures under which the ERL was appraised, negotiated and brought
to the Board may have prejudiced consensus building and program internalization.
Reflecting these conditions, the authorities' failure to create an effective mechanism for
forceful and timely government action and overcome resistance to reform resulted in
delayed implementation of the agreed measures and left Gabon's structural reforms
agenda unfinished.
VI. OTHER OPERATIONS
33.   The ERL-supported program set the stage for deeper reforms that will consolidate
the gains in competitiveness, improve economic incentives and promote efficient markets.
As identified in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, Gabon's unfinished agenda
includes: poverty alleviation, promotion of private sector growth, reduction of the
country's vulnerability to oil-related shocks, capacity building and human resource
development, and adoption of a sound forestry policy to ensure the conservation and
sustainable use of existing forests.
34.   Ongoing projects include a Transport/Urban Technical Assistance Project
(PAPSUT), aimed at defining the strategies and investment programs in those sectors, as
well as a Forestry and Environment Project. The Bank is preparing a Public Enterprise
Reform Technical Assistance Operation to assist the Government in the disengagement
from productive activities, and preparations are under way for a Pilot Agricultural
Extension Services project. Based on the conclusions of the PAPSUT project, Bank
operations are envisaged in the Urban Infrastructure and Transport sectors.
VII. MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS
35.   The Economic Recovery Loan aimed to support the Government's program of
economic recovery initiated through the devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12,
1994. The program entailed: (i) macroeconomic policies designed to re-establish the
conditions for balanced growth; (ii) structural reforms to promote free and efficient
markets, redefine the role of government and minimize the impact of the devaluation on
the social sectors; and (iii) sectoral policies to reduce government involvement in the
economy and strengthen its capacity to provide basic services to the population.



I1
36.   The Economic Recovery Loan provided a consistent response to the parity change
of the CFA franc. Program results were satisfactory overall. Most of the requirements
established under the ERL were met, laying the basis on which deeper reforms could be
built. Despite close program monitoring by the Bank, however, weaknesses in
administrative capacity and financial management on the part of the authorities hindered
implementation of the agreed measures. The authorities have yet to define a coherent
structural reform program based on the transition to a competitive, market-based
economy.
37.   The ERL provided the opportunity to strengthen the policy dialogue with Gabon,
following a period of several years during which Bank involvement in the country had
been constrained by the absence of a sustainable macroeconomic framework and weak
commitment to reforms. It remains uncertain, however, whether the Gabonese economy,
served by oil reserves that turned the country into the richest nation in continental sub-
Saharan Africa, was in need for immediate Bank support following the devaluation.
38.   The ERL's implementation record suggests that administrative and social rigidities
are liable to significantly hinder the actual fulfillment of agreed measures. Weaknesses in
implementation capacity and resistance to reform are best addressed through early
investment in:
(i) building appropriate institutions and mechanisms to monitor progress and
implement reforms, so as to strengthen the authorities' ability to overcome
conflicting political interests and forestall weaknesses in administration (lack of
appropriate administrative structure and lack of institutional coordination and
organization). Program ownership and administrative coordination may be better
served by creating high-level committees to focus on program implementation and
monitoring; and
(ii) building consensus on reform by involving civil society - fulfillment of program
targets is predicated on the mobilization of support from socio-economic groups
critical to program implementation (private sector, government officials and civil
servants, trade unions, other key representatives of civil society).



12
PART II: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
I.  THE DESIGN OF THE PROGRAM
From  initial thinking on a medium-term  development strategy to a specific operation
dictated by multilateral commitments assumed in the aftermath of the devaluation of the
CFA franc.
Mired for six years in an economic and financial crisis, Gabon has been seeking
since the end of 1992 to formulate a new development strategy based on an overall
review, including a long-term approach and reexamination of certain determining sector
policies.  The World Bank had supported this undertaking and offered its technical
support in the form of an Economic Memorandum and identification of sector adjustment
programs in agriculture, transport and the restructuring of parapublic enterprises.
On January 12, 1994, the Franc Area countries decided on a 50% devaluation of
the CFA franc, and the donors undertook to put in place programs designed to mitigate
the impact of this measure, which was something new for the countries concerned. A
Stand-By arrangement was accordingly approved by the International Monetary Fund on
March 30, 1994, and an Economic Recovery Loan (ERL) was obtained from the World
Bank at the end of April of that year.
The ERL was thus an individual operation, but one that was based on an analysis
of the Gabonese economy made in the course of 1993 by World Bank and Gabonese
Government experts, and lies within the scope of a wider-ranging review including sector
adjustment plans' with a medium-term horizon.
The review of the evolution of the Gabonese economy presented as an
introduction to the "Strategy Letter" resulted from the study made and set forth the
strategic thrusts of the policy to be implemented based on:
divestiture by the State in favor of the private sector, and refocusing of its role on
its essential functions,
*      combined with a search for a replacement for public expenditure as motor for the
economy, thus implying reestablishment of competitiveness.
l      The project concerning the transport sector was on the point of being negotiated, that for
agriculture was under preparation and that for restructuring of the parapublic sector had been the
subject of an urgent request, as evidenced by the minutes of the negotiations: "The Gabonese
party expressed its intention to request Bank assistance in the form of a quick-disbursing project
to support the restructuring of the public enterprises. Said party also reiterated its desire to
receive financial and technical support from the Bank for the preparation of the restructuring of
the enterprises of the agroindustrial and transport sectors".  Minutes of Negotiations,
Washington, April 26, 1994.



13
The ERL is inseparable from the IMF Stand-By arrangement. The Bank had
participated in the preparation of the latter, with inclusion in it of a certain number of
structural elements to be developed further in the ERL. while the ERL adopted the
framework and the macroeconomic objectives of the Stand-By.2 Moreover, right from
the start it was intended that the Stand-By would be followed by a three-year Extended
Fund Facility (EFF) to bring Gabonese economic policy back to a medium-term
perspective, after the uncertainties connected with the real consequences of the
devaluation had dissipated.
II.  THE CONTENT AND EXECUTION OF THE ERL PROGRAM
Aside from the macroeconomic framework resulting from the IMIF program, the
ERL as defined in the "Letter of Development Strategy" focuses on two main areas:
structural reforms
sector policies
11.1   Structural reforms
These result from the diagnosis of the barriers to economic development and the
factors behind Gabon's lack of competitiveness.  Five primary topics are involved:
liberalization of domestic and foreign trade, energy prices, the institutional environment of
the private sector, reform of indirect taxation, and mitigation of the negative impacts of
the devaluation on the poorer segments of the population.
II. I . 1 Liberalization of domestic and foreign trade
The protectionist framework that has made the going easy for enterprises and
helped to maintain the high level of costs and prices is directly attacked, in particular by
the lowering of quantitative or tariff barriers:
abolition of the last quantitative restrictions (five products), by means of a
temporary and degressive (30%, 3 years) surtax in order to give the enterprises the
time needed to implement the restructuring plan,
lowering of the customs tariff in the context of the Central African Customs and
Economic Union (UDEAC), so as to reduce the protection rates. As implemented
after the devaluation, however, trade liberalization became more a policy of
controlling inflationary pressures,
elimination of tax and customs exemptions granted in the context of the
Investment Code, so as to avoid distorsions among industries and enterprises,
2     This completion rcport will not directly considcr the macroeconomic aspects.



14
reduce the adverse impact of protection on productivity, and offset the revenue
loss incurred as a result of lower import tariffs;
l iberalization of profit margins after a temporary period (6 months) of strict price
control to prevent post-devaluation speculation.
It should be noted that the lowering of the customs tariff and the elimination of the
exemptions allowed by the Investment Code have the effect of reducing the gains in
competitiveness derived from the devaluation.
By and large these measures were adopted and implemented in accordance with
the agreed schedule. However, three points caused or are still causing difficulties:
*     the establishment of the legislative and regulatory framework for ensuring free
competition, which prompted reformulation of the Law on Competition which
accompanied SAP I of 1989. The new law and its implementing decrees have been
adopted by the Government.
*  the abolition of protection for the sugar industry, whose low competitiveness
(50%)3 in an international market characterized by dumping (the major producers'
domestic prices "subsidize" their exports, which are generally effected at a loss or
at marginal cost) would have entailed disappearance of the enterprise concerned
(SOSUIHO) without there being time to devise replacement solutions4 for
converting SOSUHO's considerable land and facilities for other uses. To offset
these delays in the designing of the restructuring or conversion plans (delays that
also occurred in the rest of the agroindustry sector), the elimination of quantitative
protection for sugar originally scheduled for January 1, 1995, had to be twice
deferred and was ultimately reprogrammed for the end of 1996, in accordance with
the revised EFF schedule.
*     the elimination of advantages granted through establishment agreements whose
contractual nature excludes any purely regulatory action. Pending UDEAC
directives, the renegotiation of the agreements concerned was deferred to the
beginning of 1996. The decisions taken then concern the parapublic sector
enterprises where the State has authority to act as owner (in accordance with the
EFF, March 1996 revision).
50S% deficiency (World Bank mission, of March 30, 1994).
4World Bank missions of March 1994 and June 1994, Agriculture and Forestry Sector Review,
February 24. 1995.



15
I. 1.2 Energy prices
The price of energy, petroleum products and electricity is a decisive factor in the
production costs of enterprises and, directly or indirectly, in household budgets. The
general objective of the measures included in the program was to lead the producing
enterprises (SOGARA and SEEG) to improve their performance:
Oil products
Demand for oil products is covered by the national refinery (SOGARA), which
processes a small proportion of Gabon's crude production (750-800,000 tons/year). The
domestic market is currently less than 500,000 tons and the rest is exported. The specific
objective for this subsector was to index SOGARA's ex-refinery prices to international
prices after incorporation of the impact of the devaluation and without subsidies.
In an initial stage, fuel taxes were adjusted to temporarily stabilize prices at the
pump.  Then, when VAT was introduced, the structure of prices was modified in
accordance with the IMF's recommendations. SOGARA's ex-refinery prices were raised
by 12%; the nominal level of taxes remained basically the same -- with a different
breakdown (shift from the consumption tax to VAT and the equalization tax) --; and
distributors and retailers' margins remained constant in nominal value. As a result of the
deductibility of VAT, the industrial diesel oil category (tax-free fuel for fixed industrial
installations) was abolished.
It should be noted that indexing on import parities runs into the practical difficulty
of establishing a basic reference price. While it is possible to ascertain the prices of
products offered on the international market, it is not so easy to define a realistic price for
delivery in Gabon, freight rates being extremely dependent on the quantities delivered and
these quantities themselves being dependent on available storage capacities (which are
currently limited in Gabon). On the other hand, following exceptional bitumen imports
connected with road projects, it was found that SOGARA's prices were competitive. The
prices of the other products appear to be essentially the same as the cost of possible
imports.
Electricity
Electricity prices were not adjusted to incorporate the effects of the devaluation
until December 1994, when an average increase of 13% went into effect.
The price reform adopted by the Government in the context of the redefinition of
public service concessions introduced two elements in the tariff-setting: installed power
and consumption. Billing also reflects generation costs according to region. The reform
was introduced gradually, starting with the big medium-voltage consumers, and the initial
tariff studies were updated. The low-voltage tariffs were also revised recently.



16
The Law Establishing the National Water and Electricity Council was adopted by
the National Assembly.  This Council determines the special charges for water and
electricity which are added to the energy price proper and are intended for financing
system maintenance and expansions for which local authorities are responsible.
Beyond the tariff reforms, the most significant step forward in regard to water and
electricity is the decision to make water and electricity service the subject of a private
concession, i.e. to privatize the state company currently holding the concession.
11.1.3 Reform of indirect taxation
VAT was introduced on April 1, 1995, as agreed under the ERL. From the
standpoint of its fiscal performance, the results obtained have exceeded expectations.
However, in view of its limited sphere of application, the hesitancy of certain
parapublic enterprises which fear its impact on the prices of certain sensitive products, and
the difficulties connected with certain establishment agreements, application of VAT
creates certain distortions in the economy. These will, however, be resolved by extension
of its application to all sectors and products. To this end, the human resources and
equipment of the authority responsible for administering VAT will have to be
strengthened.
11. 1.4 Reforms of the institutional framework
These reforms concern the legislative and regulatory framework in which the
enterprises operate, their objectives being to eliminate the obstacles to proper functioning
of the labor market, to implement an enabling environment and a review of the Investment
Code, to revise the country's business legislation and to ensure equity and transparency in
its application.
In these fields, the years 1994 and 1995, i.e. the period covered by the ERL, were
devoted to gaining a better understanding of the problems to, consultations between the
private sector and the authorities and preparation of proposals to be submitted to the
Government. These reforms are not expected to be completed until some time in 1996,
according to the new EFF program agreed on with the IMF.5
They envisage:
a revision of the Labor Code which, although adopted in 1994, does not provide
the flexibility necessary for development of the employment market, and the
introduction of implementing legislation and specialized institutions. At the same
time, the National Employment Office (Office National de l'Emploi - ONE) has
been made operational with the establishment of an employment-monitoring unit,
The Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was prepared with the collaboration of the World Bank.



17
and identification and implementation of training programs for retraining of the
unemployed or the young graduates, so as to equip them to work where
employment is available. The ONE's actions will have a decisive impact in the
further application of the policy on privatization and restructuring of the parapublic
sector.
adoption of a new law on investments based among other things on equal
treatment of all operators, security of investments and establishment of a
facilitation mechanism, with particular reference to enterprise creation. The law
will be rounded out with sector codes in the priority sectors specifying the
technical conditions for activity and the particular incentives applicable.
modernization of business legislation and its harmonization within the Franc Area.
11.1.5 Minimization of the impact of the devaluation on the social sectors
In the short term, the inflation induced by the devaluation and the deterioration of
the employment market have greatly reduced consumers' purchasing power.
After having slumped sharply in 1994, private consumption appears to have
continued to contract in 1995 notwithstanding the slowing of inflation (measured by the
index for 125 articles) to 3.4% in 1995 compared with 47% in the preceding year.
Paid employment outside government declined by 3.5% in 1994 despite the
acceleration of the recovery in the forestry sector begun in 1993 and a slight improvement
in construction and public works due to public investments. Increasing unemployment will
therefore aggravate the fall in the standard of living.
Being aware of the importance of a reduction in real wages for the competitiveness
of the economy, the Government has maintained a rigorous wage policy in which it has
itself set an example. Public service pay was only raised by 10% in 1994 and was kept at
the same level in 1995, and it is estimated that private sector pay increases remained
within the 15% limit recommended.
It is clear that these negative developments weigh proportionally heavier on the
poorest segments of the population. To mitigate the impact on them several approaches
have been adopted:
maintaining control over price increases. After the temporary controls imposed to
deter speculation, an agreed price policy was instituted with the collaboration of
the producers as regards staple items. In addition, taxation (customs duties and
VAT) was reduced on certain sensitive products such as school books and
medications.



18
partially offsetting the fall in living standards by an improvement in social services.
The funding for the education and health sectors was increased after the Amending
Finance Law of 1994 in order to maintain the real level of expenditures as set
before the devaluation. While the funding from national resources has been used,
there have been considerable delays in disbursements from loan funds. For these
two sectors, the capital expenditures executed in 1995 were double those of 1994,
and this level has been maintained for 1996 (see annexed table).
definition of a policy in favor of the disadvantaged groups. To accomplish this,
Gabon has undertaken a study on poverty with Bank assistance. The field surveys
were conducted in the first half of 1995 and the report is in process of finalization.
It will include the definition by the Gabonese party of a strategy to combat poverty
and a governmental action plan.
III. SECTOR POLICIES
Beyond general economic policy measures designed to create an environment
better suited to development of the private sector, the post-devaluation strategy had to
define the directions to be given to the sectors that are motors of or necessary for growth.
These sectors are dominated by the state enterprises (to a lesser extent for the
wood sector). This is why the restructuring of the parapublic enterprises is a key element
in the sector policies to be redefined. The fact is that the production enterprises will have
to face international competition as they progressively lose the protections that have
sheltered them to date (quotas, elimination of tax advantages). They have been given a
three-year period, by means of a temporary and degressive surtax (30%), to adapt to the
new context. To facilitate the changes they will have to make, technical and financial
support was sought from the World Bank, to consist of a restructuring component for the
agroindustrial enterprises in the context of an agriculture sector project,6 a restructuring
component for the transport enterprises (operation and infrastructure) in the context of a
technical assistance project for the transport sector,7 which was itself to prepare a
transport sector project, and, more generally, a future project to support restructuring of
the public enterprises.
In the event, only the transport sector project (PATRANS, later PAPSUT)
materialized when the ERL was set up (negotiations in August 1994). Unfortunately its
actual startup was delayed by a certain number of administrative and material difficulties
and it did not in fact become truly operational until the last quarter of 1995.  The
agriculture project is still in gestation with changes being made by the parties involved,
6     Cf. para 32 of the Strategy Letter
7     Cf. paras. 38 and 39 of the Strategy Letter.



19
while the parapublic sector project may perhaps see the light of day in 1996, as an
accompaniment (post-synchronized) to the measures included in the IMF's EFF program.
In addition to their public enterprises component, these sector projects were
intended to help with formulation of strategies and policies in the two basic sectors --
agriculture and transport infrastructure -- with the aim of profiting from the devaluation-
induced stimulus for the first-named sector and improving the quality and cost of transport
sector.
Despite these ups and downs certain positive developments in the different sectors
warrant noting:
111.1  Production sectors
Agriculture
The emphasis in the public programs in favor of advisory and extension services
for farmers was reflected in the capital expenditures, especially the IFAD and IGAD
projects and the village-scale components of the rubber and cattle-raising programs.
Moreover, the upgrading and paving of the north-south highway will progressively
improve the conditions for marketing food crops. Unfortunately, the urban structures
(markets) have been left in their dilapidated state and it is not unlikely that the additional
costs due to losses are a source of discouragement for merchants and local producers.
Following the devaluation there was a distinct shift in trade in foodstuffs toward
the countries of the subregion, and even South Africa, and away from Europe. The
response of local production is presently hard to quantify, but in light of price movements
it would seem that food products are more plentiful in the markets. The studies made by
the Bank (Agriculture and Forestry Sector Review, 1995) express a certain optimism
taking into consideration the appreciable productivity gains that can be expected in the
food sector and the shortfall to be filled between domestic consumption and national
production.
Regarding cash crops the situation is one of contrasts. The devaluation and the
upward movement of prices are working to the advantage of the rubber sector, which is
pursuing its efforts to improve productivity. Coffee production, on the other hand, is still
in decline while the slight rise in cocoa production is well below what was hoped in view
of the higher incomes for growers resulting from devaluation and the higher international
prices. The producer prices for these two products were increased by 50% and 35%
respectively at the time of signature of the ERL.



20
Fishery
Although there is a sustained demand, catches are held down by technical factors:
the poor condition of the industrial fishery equipment, and the departure of a large number
of the nonindustrial fishermen from western Africa.
Forestry
The forestry sector benefited from an improvement in the world market in 1993.
The devaluation enabled significant gains that were shared between the operators,
OCTRA and the State. However, in the course of 1994 this very favorable situation and
the CFAF profits generated by the devaluation led to an unrestrained and uncontrolled
scramble for "'green gold" just as the market trends reversed themselves. The outcome
was production quotas that sharply reduced the level of utilization of the newly acquired
production capacities. Recent events in this sector have underscored two phenomena:
one negative, regarding the management of permits and production, with
detrimental effects on the country's forest resources despite the objectives of the
forest/environment program;
the other positive, with the development of local processing started by the major
European groups operating in the sector.
In light of these observations, the Government has undertaken a study in
partnership with the operators on management of the wood sector and development of
industrial processing. The conclusions of the commission formed for this purpose have
been submitted to the Government and in the coming months a new policy should be
implemented in the sector aimed at better management and development of the resources
and promotion of a preliminary processing industry that accounted for no more than 7% of
total production in 1994.
Mining
The mining sector, like all other export sectors, has experienced an upturn in its
profitability, but the expansion of its exports is still entirely dependent on international
market demand that is unaffected by purely national policies.
111.2  Infrastructure
Despite the marked increase in the cost of imported inputs, the road investment
program has been maintained in order to provide the country with the communication
infrastructure necessary for development of productive activities, agriculture and forestry
in particular.



21
The PAPSUT project already referred to should enable improved operation of the
transport services as a result of (i) adjustment measures involving the public enterprises in
particular; and (ii) the formulation of a coherent investment program aimed, among other
things, at better intermodal complementarity. A certain number of studies are under way
and the privatization of the railway operation was initiated at the end of 1995.
111.3  The social sectors
The changes in budgetary appropriations confirm the State's withdrawal from the
production sectors and the emphasis now placed on infrastructure for transport,
production and energy distribution and on meeting social needs, especially in education
and health.
Despite a low execution rate in 1994, investments in education are continuing on a
sustained basis. In accordance with the program, allocations from national resources have
been increased by nearly 30% to maintain the volume of construction programmed before
the devaluation. Operating expenditures, in which salaries feature very largely, have been
increased by 15%. Actual expenditures in 1995 were more than double those of 1994.
The investments made and the recruitment carried out mean that in primary education in
Libreville the number of students per classroom was brought down from 104.6 in 1990 to
76 in 1995, and the student-teacher ratio from  72.7 to 48.  Although favorable
development of these parameters is one of the prerequisites for improvement of the
education system, strengthening of management capacities in this sector nevertheless
remains essential if its efficiency is to be improved.
In this connection, a public expenditure review covering the main sectors has been
started with World Bank assistance.  This will make it possible to define budget
appropriations and the procedures for executing expenditures better.
Regarding health, besides the increase in investments and operating funds, a reform
of the institutional framework has been carried out with a new Framework Law designed
to harmonize the supply of the health system, restructure its management methods and
ensure the system's financial equilibrium.
In addition to improving access to education and health and the efforts to reduce
poverty, the authorities' action has been reoriented to focus on improving living conditions
in the urban centers, where over 70% of the population is concentrated. Programs to
improve the sewerage systems have been started, together with an experiment in labor-
intensive road works in the context of the PAPSUT project which also aims to reformulate
urban management concerning infrastructure.  A law on decentralization designed to
better define the role and strengthen the means of the local authorities is in the process of
being adopted.



22
IV. CONCLUSION
The adjustment and economic recovery measures included in the ERL program
have for the most part been implemented, although certain of the reforms are still in the
gestation stage. As regards economic growth, the impact of these measures is not yet
apparent, as is demonstrated by the modest growth of the nonoil GDP (1.5% in 1995)
notwithstanding the 30% increase in the public investment program, while consumption
posted a further contraction.
It is undeniable that the export sector enterprises have appreciably improved their
position as a result of the devaluationi. However, none of the major sectors has gained
new market shares. The increase in oil production derives from investments made in the
past.  Traditional mining and forestry products are riesponding to the same market
movements as before.
At the same time the agriculture sector has not yet seized the opportunities
provided by the devaluation and a large part of the industrial sector has been adversely
impacted by the application of the regional reform program.
The devaluation of the CFA franc and the measures to liberalize the economy have
not so far provided vigorous enough signals for a reordering of economic activity. The
institutional reforms, preparation of which was started during the program period, need to
be implemented and sector strategies must be developed that will attract private
investment in the lead sectors such as agriculture, mining and wood.
Beyond the review of sector policies and actions to promote the private sector
with a view to reactivating growth, greater attention will have to be paid to the
macroeconomic framework and the management of public finances.
The fact is that the Gabonese economy is driven by the oil sector and utilization of
that rent as recycled by the State.  In this respect, the devaluation heightens the
importance of the external sector and increases the public resources. The increased
utilization of these resources must be controlled so as to prevent the oil revenues from
fuelling public consumption to the detriment of the investment that should accompany
growth. It is in the context of these concerns that the new studies (such as the public
expenditure review and the administrative reform) are taking place. They will ultimately
permit better dimensioning of the government apparatus on the basis of its redefined
purposes and an optimization of public expenditure, the results of which are inconsistent
with the volume of resources employed.
On the other hand, in the short and medium term the surpluses expected from the
export sector are largely consumed by the impact of the devaluation on the public debt.
Only the interest on the debt now exceeds the public investment program.  The
rescheduling recently obtained from the Paris Club have made it possible to balance the
budget, but the projections of future debt service indicate a steadily growing need in terms



23
of budget funds to cover past commitments. It is therefore vital to put in place a medium
and long-term debt policy that will make it possible to sustain the macroeconomic
framework and the equilibrium of the public finances.



24
Annex 1: Action Matrix
TRADE POLICY                            Es.timatedDate  ActualDate  C  mment                         
Application of four customs tariff rates  February 1. 1994    Done         Measure implemented in the
(5%, 10%, 20% and 30%) in line with                                        aftermath of the devaluation,
UJDEAC categories                                                          before the ERL
To be confirmed in the revised Budget Law   Mav/June 1994  Done            Confirmed in the Revised
1994                                                                      Budget Law No. 05/94 of
Section Ill - Customs
arrangements
Elimination of customs exemptions under    February 1994   Done            Measure implemented at the
the Investment Code or by virtue of SME                                    same time as the new customs
status or other special exemption provisions                              tariff
To be confirmed in the revised Budget Law IM,ay/June 1994  Done            Confirmed in the Revised
1994                                                                      Budget Law No. 05/94 of
Section III - Customs
arrangements
No new exemptions, under conventions or   Permanent        Done            No new convention was
other agreements, to be granted, no renewal                                granted as specified by the
of exemptions under existing conventions                                   Revised Budget Law 1994
after their expiration date
Renegotiate existing conventions to     1994/95            Done            Measure adopted under the
eliminate any exemptions which depart                                      IMF Extended Financing
from common law                                                            Facility; renegotiation initiated
in February 1996; delays were
caused by a lack of instructions
from UDEAC
Fix a ceiling of 0.5% of cif value on the  Revised Budget  Completed       Circular letter from
FTID and on the rate for contributions to    Law 1994      except FTID     MINECOFIN (Ministry of
the Conseil Gabonais des Chargeurs and                                     Economy and Finance)
the Centre Gabonais du Commerce                                            addressed to the relevant bodies
ExtLrieur
Eliminate the levy on imports to finance the  January 1, 1995  Done        The levy was eliminated under
Conseil Gabonais des Chargeurs and the                                    the 1995 Budget Law. The
Centre Gabonais du Commerce Extcrieur                                      VAT replaces the contributions
contributions                                                              (Revised Budget Law 94)
Eliminate exit duty on exports except for    Revised Budget  Done          Measure was implemented in
wood and mineral products               Law 1994                          the context of the Revised
Budget Law No. 05/94, Section
111- Customs arrangements
(Article 10, p.31)
Simplify the tax and duties structure on  Revised Budget   Done            Article 11, p.31
wood products for export                Law 1994
Increase the producer prices of coffee and    May 1994     Done            Decree of 8/19/94 + 35% for
cocoa in the wake of the devaluation (35%                                  cocoa and 50% for coffee
for the current season)



25
Elimination of quantitative restrictions on   June 1994   Done           Decree 546/PR of 7/5/94
imports and of monopolies on vegetable                                   eliminating quantitative
oils, soap, bottled water, and cement                                    restrictions on imports
Elimination of restrictions on sugar imports  January 1995  Postponed    Initially agreed upon in the
context of decree 546, modified
by Budget Law 95: postponed
until 96. Decree of February 96
postpones elimination by 2
years
Pevoke the system of import/export licenses  May/June 1994  Done         Abrogated by decree 772/PR of
(Decree 766 of 6/1183)                                                   8/23/94
STRENGTHENING COMPETITION ON THE DOMESTIC MARKET
Decree in application of the 1989 Law on    1994          Postponed      Technical discussions with the
Competition                                               until 1996     Bank in 1996 led to a revision
of the entire competition
framework, including the law.
Law adopted by Council of
Ministers on 2/28/96
Elimination of margin controls (Decree 168  1994          Done           Eliminated by decree 547/PR of
of 1/31/94)                                                              July 5, 1994
Liberalization of the price of vegetable oils,  June 1994  Done          Included in decree 547
soap, bottled water, and cement
(Amendment of Decree 541 of 5/24/89)
Liberalization of sugar prices (Amendment  January 1995   Postponed      Included in decree 547, but
of Decree 541 of 5/24/89)                                                postponed by 1995 Budget Law
and by decree of February 1996
FISCAL REFORM
Application of the Value Added Tax which   March 1995     Done          | Implemented on April 1, 1995
will replace all other indirect taxes with the
exception of customs and excise duties
RFFORM OF ENERGY PRICES
Set e:x-refinery prices with reference to  June 1994
import parity prices
Reduce taxation to keep pump prices    June 1994          Done           From January 94 to May 95
constant if this can be done without subsidy
(except household kerosene)
Simplification of fuel price structures,  March 1995      Done           May 95, decree 414 MEBP
indexing to import parity prices and                                     (Ministry of Economy and
application of VAT to fuels            _                                 Budget)



26
Application of new electricity tariff  June 1994          Done            December 1995
reflecting costs
Full pricing study before any increases                    Done           September 1995
indexing tariffs to costs are made
LABOR POLICY
Consultations with employers and unions    1995            Postponed      Joint commission emplovers/
on possible revision of the Labor Code                     until 1996     administration under the aegis
Start operations of the Office National de    1994         Done
I Emploi and the Fonds d'Insertion et de
Reinsertion
FACILITATION
Simplify approval and other adrinistrative   1994          Postponed      Postponed until 1996 in the
procedures involved in establishment of an                 until 1996     context of the revision of the
eitterprise and reduce cost                                               investment code
BUDGET ALLOCATIONS TO THE
SOCIAL SECTORS
Adjust allocations to National Education  Revised Budget   Done           Revised Budget Law 1994
and Public Health in light of cost increases   Law 1994
resulting from the devaluation



27
Annex 2: Social Sectors - Public Expenditures
1994                                 1995
Initial Budget  Final         Actual         Final         Actual
Allocation     Budget         Expenditures  Budget         Expenditures
Allocation                   Allocation     __       _
Investment
Education              9518           15637          6543          15811          12901
Health                 2909           3908           1764           5827           3981
Compensation for                      1675           1564
the devaluation
Total Gabonese         12427          19545          8307          21638          16882
Republic (GR) +
External Financing
of which domestic
financing
Education              3400           3336           3308           9212           9101
Health                 1910           1808           1764           4327           3981
Compensation for                      1675           1564
the devaluation
Total GR               5310           6819           6636          13539          13082
Increase (%)                          28.42                        98.55
Increase in actual                                                                97.14
expenditures 95/94
(%)                                                                          I
Current
Expenditures
Education              36493          40853         40850          45746          45740
Health                 20251          24361         24300          27410          27410
Total                 56744           65214         65150          73156          73150
Increase (%)                          14.93                        12.29
Increase in actual                                                                12.28
expenditures 95/94
Total GR               62054          72033         71786          86695          86232
Investment &
Current
expenditures
Increase (%)                          16.08                        20.35
Increase in actual                                                                20.12
expenditures 95/94                             I
(%/)i



PART mH: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                                     28
Table 1
Summarv of Assessments
(A) Achievement of Ohiectives           Substantial        Partial          Nealirjible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                   x       j
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                                I                                   r
Institutional Development                                                     X
Physical Objectives                j___j                  _       j_j_j_                      X
Poverty Reduction                                j         X
Gender Issues                                                                                 x
Other Social Objectives                                                                       W
Environmental Objectives             I              _                     I      I      L     X
Public Sector Management                                   X
Private Sector Development                                                   x
Other (specify)                    _                ____i__X_
(B) Proiect Sustainability                Likely          Unlikelv          Uncertain
Highly
(C) Bank Performance                   Satisfactorv      Satisfactorv       Deficient
Identification                                             X
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                                  X
Supervision                        ______X___j_j
Highly
(D) Borrower Performanec               Satisfactory      Satisfactor'        Deficient
Preparation                                                X
Implementation                                             W       i
Covenant Compliance                |                       X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                               Highly
(E) Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactorv      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactorv
w  w



29
Table 2
Related Bank Loans
Credit                                    Credit                                          Purpose                                        Year of        Status
Title                                   Number                                                                                         Approval
Preceding operations
1. Technical Assistance Project                                      3 114-GA    Support the Government's adjustment program over a three-year period by                1989          Closed
strengthening its key ministries in critical areas ofeconomic management.
Key components included civil service reform, training and skills transfer
to local counterparts, and medium-scale enterprise development.
2. First Structural Adjustment Loan                                  2933-GA    (i) initiate a program ofpuiblic enterprise rchabilitation and rationalization,         1988          Closed
(ii) strengthen public sector resource management tlhrough better control
over the investment budget and wagc reduction; and (iii) liberalize the
policy environment in order to stimulate private sector initiative



30
Table 3
Project Timetable
Date                   Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                 Planned \2               latest estimate
Identification (Initiating Memorandum)  [January 10-14, 1994
Preparation                                             _3 months
Appraisal                                March 21 - April 8, 1994    March 21 - April 8, 1994
Negotiations                           lApril 25-26, 1994          ; April 25-26, 1994 __
Letter of Development Policy           [April 26, 1994            jApril 26, 1994
Board                                   June21, 1994   _           June 21, 1994
Signing                                                     _      June 23, 1994
Effectiveness                           June 30, 1994              September 16, 1994
Project completion
Credit closing                          June 30, 1995              June 30, 1995
\2 As provided in the President's Report.



31
Table 4
Loan Disbursements
Estimated and Actual
FY
1995
(US$ millions, unless indicated otherwise)
Appraisal estimate                             30.0
Actual disbursement                            30.0
Actual as % of estimate                        100%
Date of final disbursement               October 17, 1994



32
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated Date   Actual Date
TRADE POLICY
Application of four customs tariff rates (5%, 10%, 20% and 30%) in line    February 1, 1994  Done
with UDEAC categories
To be confirmed in the revised Budget Law 1994                     May/June 1994       Condition
Elimination of customs exemptions under the Investment Code or by  February 1994       Done
virtue of SME status or other special exemption provisions
To be confirmed in the revised Budget Law 1994                     May/June 1994       Condition
No new exemptions, under conventions or other agreements, to be granted,  Permanent    Done
no renewal of exemptions under existing conventions after their expiration
date
Renegotiate existing conventions to eliminate any exemptions which  1994/95            Under way
depart from common law
Fix a ceiling of 0.5% of cif value on the FTID and on the rate for  Revised Budget Law  Not completed
contributions to the Conseil Gabonais des Chargeurs and the Centre  1994
Gabonais du Commerce Exterieur
Elimix,ate the levy on imports to finance the Conseil Gabonais des  January 1, 1995    April 1, 1995
Chargcurs and the Centre Gabonais du Commerce Exterieur contributions
Eliminate exit duty on exports except for wood and mineral products  Revised Budget Law   Condition
1994
Simplify the tax and duties structure on wood products for export  Revised Budget Law  Done
1994
Increase the producer prices of coffee and cocoa in the wake of the  May 1994          August 1994 (33%
devaluation (35% for the current season)                                               for cocoa and 50%
for coffee)
Elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports and of monopolies on    June 1994  Condition
vegetable oils, soap, bottled water, and cement
Elimination of restrictions on sugar imports                       January 1995        Not completed
Revoke the system of import/export licenses (Decree 766 of 6/1/83)  May/June 1994      Condition
STRENGTHEN COMPETITION ON THE DOMESTIC MARKET
Decree in application of the 1989 Law on Competition               1994                Redrafted Law on
Competition is
awaiting Parliament
-approval
Elimination of margin controls (Decree 168 of 1/31/94)             1994                1994
Liberalization of the price of vegetable oils, soap, bottled water, and  At the time   Condition
cement (Amendment of Decree 541 of 5/24/89)                        quantitative
restrictions on
imports are lifted
________________________________________________________________  (June 1994)



33
Liberalization of sugar prices (Amendment of Decree 541 of 5/24/89)  At the time       Not completed
quantitative
restrictions on sugar
imports are lifted
(January 1994)
FISCAL REFORM
Application of the Value Added Tax which will replace all other indirect   March 1995 at the    April 1995
taxes with the exception of customs and excise duties              latest
Reform of energy prices: promote competitiveness of the economy by
reducing fiscal surcharges and taking account of opportunity costs
a) Fuel Prices:
Set ex-refinery prices with reference to import parity prices      May/June 1994       Condition
Reduce taxation to keep pump prices constant if this can be done without   May/June 1994  Condition
subsidy (except household kerosene)
Simplification of fuel price structures, indexing to import parity prices and  March 1995 at the    May 1995
application of VAT to fuels                                        latest
b) Electricity Prices
Application of new electricity tariff reflecting costs            | May/June 1994     | Condition
Full pricing study before any increases indexing tariffs to costs are made    December 1994  Done
LABOR POLICY
Conisultations with employers and unions on possible revision of the Labor  1995       Government has
Code                                                                                   committed itself to
remedy deficiencies
of Labor Code
Start operations of the Office National de 1'Emploi and the Fonds  1994                Done
d'Insertion et de Reinsertion
FACILITATION
Simplify approval and other administrative procedures involved in  1994                Not completed
establishment of an enterprise and reduce cost
BUDGET ALLOCATIONS TO THE SOCIAL SECTORS
Adjust allocations to National Education and Public Health in light of cost  Revised Budget Law   Condition
increases resulting from the devaluation                           1994               l                    l



34
Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7
Proiect Studies
Not applicable



35
Table 8a
Project Costs
Not applicable
Table 8b
Project Financing
Appraisal estimate    Actual/Latest estimate
Item                     (US$ mil)               (US$ mil)
l. IDA                                30.0                    30.0       _
2._Other                               0.0                     0.0
TOTAL               30.0                    30.0      -



36
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benef'its
COSTS ($ million)                             BENEFITS
30           Improvement in the economy's competitiveness and correction of
macroeconomic imbalances. Substantial price and trade liberalization.
Introduction of a value added tax. Progress toward more efficient
energy pricing and public enterprise restructuring. Budget allocations
to the social sectors maintained in real terms.



37
Table 10
Status of Leeal Covenants in Loan Aereement
Section  Covenant  Present         Fulfilment Date       Description of Covenant                                             Comments
Type      Status     Original      Actual
3.01       9          C       continuous               Borrower to submit project progress report periodically and
exchange views with the Bank on the basis of this report
3.02       3          C       continuous               Procurement guidelines
3.03 (a)     1          C       continuous               Maintain records and proper accounts of expenditures
under credit
3.03 (b,c)    I          C       continuous               Have records and accounts audited; furnish audit/other
information to IDA
5.01 (a)    12          C        Prior to                Enact the Loi de Finances Rectificative for 1994, containing
effectiveness            regulations concerning trade liberalization and budgetary
provisions for the social sectors
5.01 (b)     12         C         Prior to               Enact laws or promulgate regulations to eliminate remaining
effectiveness            quantitative restrictions, abolish import/export licenses,
eliminate price and margin controls, and modifs tariffs and
taxes on petroleum products
5.01 (e)     12         C         Prior to               Restructure the electricity rates
I____I_____ effectiveness
Covenants types:                                          10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9  Present Status:
I= Accounts/audits                                       11 = Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation    C  = Covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries   12= Sector or cross-sector policy/regulatory/institutional action  CD= Complied with after delay
3= Flow and utilization of project funds                 13= Other                                                  CP= Complied with partially
4= Counterpart funding                                                                                              NC= Not complied with
5= Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6= Environmental covenants
7= Involuntary resettlement
8= Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review and reporting



38
Table 1 1
Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Planned              Actual
Project Cycle           Weeks  US$ (OOOs)  Weeks  US$ (OOOs)
Preparation to
Appraisal                                      12.2      29.9
Appraisal              _                        9        24.6
Negotiations through
Board Approval                                 11.9      28.3
Supervision              23.8       53.7      14.3       34.6
Completion                 5         15        3.4       2.7
Total                                         50.8      120.1



39
Table 12
Use of Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                         Month/        Number of   Days in            Specialized             Performance Rating              Types of
Project Cycle                        Year           Persons       Field          staff skills       Implementation   Development        Problems
represented            status         objectives
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board Approval              Mar-Apr, 1994          8            19       EC, FA, LEG, CONS            2               2
Board Approval through Effectiveness
Supervision                                   June-July, 1994        1            7                EC                   2               2
Mar-Apr, 1995          1           19               EC                   2                2
May-June, 1995         1           28                EC                   2               1
Completion                                                                                                      I
Key to specialized staff skills                                                           Key to Performance Rating        Key to Problems
EC = Economist                              LEG = Legal                                   I = Problem Free                 AF = Availability of funds
IE = Infrastructure Engineer                CONS = Consultant                             2 = Moderate Problems            CLC = Compliance with legal covenants
FA = Financial Analyst                      STE = Senior Transport Engineer               3 = Major Problems               FP = Financial Performance
CC = Computer Consultant                    MFA= Municipal Financial Analyst              4 = Major Problems -             PMP = Project management performance
UP = Urban Planner                          UFS = Urban Financial Specialist                 Corrective Action to be taken  PP = Procurement progress
TRE = Traffic Engineer                      YP = Young Professional                                                        SP = Studies progress
TEC = Transport Economist



40
APPENDIXES
ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT AS CONDITIONS OF
DISBURSEMENT
(i) agreement on, and implementation of, a major trade reform that includes a four-rate
import tariff structure (5, 10, 20 and 30 percent import tariff, according to the
classification agreed upon in the context of the UDEAC reform), the elimination of export
duties on all exports (except mineral and wood products), and the elimination of fiscal
exemptions under special regimes (Investment Code, Single Tax, Medium and Small-Scale
Enterprises regime, Forestry Regime);
(ii) price liberalization and the elimination of four of the five remaining quantitative
restrictions on imports (the last remaining restriction, on sugar imports, was to be
eiiminated in early 1995 as part of the program), and of the requirement for import
licenses;
(iii) reform of the pricing system for energy products, so as to improve the
competitiveness of Gabonese products. For petroleum products, the objective of the
reform was a) to reduce the excess cost of petroleum products by lowering the fiscal
levies on them; and b) to increase efficiency by linking the prices paid to the refinery to
import parity prices. For electricity, the immediate measures aimed to establish
differentiated tariffs reflecting the specific cost conditions of the different grids supplying
power to different locations; and
(iv) adjustment of the 1994 budgetary allocations to the social sector (health and
education) to prevent any reduction of the real resources available to these sectors due to
the increased prices of goods and services. The budgetary allocations in the revised
Budget Law for 1994 were adjusted to correspond fully to the budgetary allocations of the
pre-devaluation allocation in terms of purchasing power.



10                                                           12'                                                            ii.
C  A  M  E  R  0 0   N
,T Y-                                  Songmrelmo
NkonTng             =M,nout             -      -       -      _V_
2' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ebe boyin                                           m R,laEbo rrane                                     r-                                            s  . 2
L 1  E  U-
E  Q    U  A  T                      b R  I A  LAsnokN90um
G U I N E A                                 ye
(RIO MUNI)                                      N         A i
f 6  . r           -------Meomo 
CaiIobfoutr                                          on                                O    G   O                  O    U   f- >  
LIBREVLE Voom                                                      Lal.                                          DD                   O                           0MAu
Ond::ConubKo SOE Ci .r,   pr  Ako   Alogor.n
OF o ul ien                     Ndjl\)oI) \Ae _ ou   >-_>o
WC)on0 SR,RC   E ?oo~n             r         ?Sf           C
0J9 /   / ,rs i :\<                                           f  *--                       '@                           ,          O                    \           i?
K. -K
r       E   N J >  < r    WKenono   '    _-1        }  Joulomoutou 9        >;         |         c?F klvne  r                r
>   Mandil          XE)~~Moodo                       Mbiugoo '     -t        <          BokoonEbo               
-~~  *   ~         ! Reservccb            L<ebonb J                   |)                    ',  t                         
as - rS~~~~~~~~Mokloboin I*...l<> ,_\,(c) ro Moroko  \, . 
Selle C an,r oiuin\                                      /          <*
N,                                  i                                a  2                                            GABON
39~~~~~~~~~~ ..  ...                                                ,   L. 
.                                  ..      ~     ~    ~~~       ~~~~/  .  Prirnory Raads                     -       Rionos
I~~~~~~~ Sr-                                                                 Roules Pn,ncipoles                           Rini.res
'o   G                                                                ' o \-y FgTAutres Roes                                                      Moroh
NIGERIA        /          I'CENTRAL                                                                                   Chermin De Fier. Acheve                      Regonsoly InundohledE  Aro,sn
/              ~~~~~AFRICAN
CA             1 ATRCEOC                                                                                      Coblewoy                                     Forest Reserves and Notional Parks
C^^^rROO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tiuni XFvculoire                                                                              Reserves tioresierees Et Pores Ndobonour
aiuiori.u                                                                                                          Asneropart  Alnrna tan(3 Carvtolrs Reg,onoles
'c^;crA----_                                                                                                Othrr  Airports                          g  Notionol Copitol
GAShON     > CONGO)f                                                                                       Ports                                        Rcgion Boundaries
I /~~~~/
r-                                                                                                     0.I   O   Termrinol                   _____ Internatitonal Boundaries
.I                   siiuorettsTo   . Zp      TA t,O, 5p  0   ITO  Is;  ito                 u     erminal Peirol                              tioee  Ntooe
ZA   RE  tT RO        50    Au        io       iou
.      5                        ~~~~~~~~Th ououdareoe. siatoo. d.noiminetioaa and  anti other iatiar,azion                                                                                        rJ
t.   shrawn onT Srie Top do not irnpiy. on, the port of Th* Wortd eostP 
Group, ony jdonr.nt onrt,toa Stoous afonny b oitar).or any                                                            oal
11   [ A      __1    odorseeme,t orouceptara.  of .Oh boundoriea                                                                                                                O
____   _     ___          -     IX                                                           Iz -;M  J-0









IMAGiNG
Report No:      15695
Type: ICR



