/1-Al   èx /+S~ cS - (//
Docuzuent of
The World Bank
FOR OMcML USE ONLY
Re,pwt No P-6361-GA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMfENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
OF US$30 MILLION
To
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
MAY 31, 1994
M T CsROGRAPH I C'
Report No: P-    6361  GA
Type: PR
This document bas a resticted distribution and m
their official duties. Its contents may not odtwise be aUiosC   wiuU WVIwU Apauft



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                  CFA Franc
US$1.00                                        CFA.1 571 (March 31. 1994)
CFAF 1 billion                                 US$ 1.751 million (March 31, 1994)
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                               U S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)                             -            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilor.ieter (kIn)                     -            0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)                -            0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                          -            2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)                        -            2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)                         -            2.2046 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFAF  Franc of the Central African Financial Cooperation
(Franc de la Coop6ration Financiere en Afrique Centrale)
CNSS   National Social Security Fund (Caisse Nationale de S6curit6 Sociale)
ERL    Economic Recovery Loan (Pret dsappui a la relance economique)
FTID   Levy for Computerized Processing of Customs
(Frais de traitement informatique des Douanes)
OCTRA Gabonese Railways Company (Office du Chemin de Fer Transgabonais)
SEEG   National Water and Electricity Company (Societe d'Eau et d'Electricite du Gabon)
SNGB   National Timber Company (Societe Nationale des Bois du Gabon)
UDEAC Central African Customs Union (Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GABONESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN (ERL)
Loan and Program Sgimar
- Borrower:     The Gabonese Republic
Loan Amount: US$30 million equivalent
Terms:       Payable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
rate
Progra
Description: The Govemnment's economic and social program launches a set of
macroeconomic, structural and social policies to accompany the devaluation of lhe
CFA franc, effective January 12, 1994. The Government's program, outlined in
the Statement of Development Policy dated April 26, 1994, aims at restoring the
competitiveness of the Gabonese economy and laying the basis for growth and
overty alleviation. The Govemment's program also obtained the support of an
IMF stand-by arrangement.
The Govermnent has alrea-ly taken a series of key measures to restore
competitiveness and stabilize the public finances. The main measures already
taken are: (i) the adjustment of the parity of the currency from CFAF50 to CFAF
100 per French fianc; (ii) linmiting w2ge increases in the public sector to ten per
cent in nominal terms for 1994; (iii) a reduction and simplification of the imports
tariff, and the implementation of a preferential tariff in favor of imports from the
countries of the Central African Customs Union (UDEAC); (iv) a reduction of the
taxes on fuel; (v) the preparation of a revised Draft Budget Law for 1994 that
provides for: a reallocation of funds to the social sectors, the elimination of export
taxes on exports other than wood and mineral products, the elimination of some
customs exemptions, and the introduction of a value added tax. The ERL is
designed to support the implementation of these measures as well as a reform
towards more efficient pricing of energy and a firther liberalization of trade.
Disbursmnts: Due to the urgent nature of the operation, the entire US$30 million loan
would be disbursed in a single tranche shortly after effectiveness.
There is no separate staff appraisal report.
This document has a restricted distnrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc of their
lofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disclosed without World Bank authorizftioon



Table of Contents
Part 1: Country Program and Bank's Group Aseistance Strategy
A. Introduction                                            I
B. Background and Recent Economic Development              2
C. External Environment                                    3
D. Development Objectives and the Govenmment's Economic
Program                                                4
E. Bank Group's Assistance Strategy                        9
Proposed Lending Levels and Lending Instuments         10
Lending Strategy and Program                            10
Portfdoio Management                                   13
Economic Sector Work                                   15
IFC and MIGA                                           15
Cooperation with Other Donors                         15
Creditworthiness Assessment                           16
F. Agenda for Board Consideration                         16
Part 2: The Proposed Economic Recovery Loan
A. Loan Amount and Justification                          18
B. Project hnplementation                                 18
C. Environmental Aspects                                  20
D. Poverty Alleviation                                    20
E. Procurement and Disbursement                           20
F. Risks and Benefits                                     21
Part 3: Recommendation                                    22
Annexes



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN OF US$30 MELLION
TO THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Gabonese Repu1blic for the equivalent amount of US$30 million.
The proposed loan would have a maturity of 15 years, including a five year grace petiod,
at the standard variable interest rate. It is filly consistent with the country assistance
strategy presented below.
2.    The proposed loan is an Econonic Recovery Loan (ERL) to the Government of
the Gabonese Republic. The objective of the loan is to provide emergency support to
the Govermnent's program of economic recovery to complement the parity adjustnent
that became effective on January 12, 1994. This program is also supported by an IMF
stand-by arrangement covering the period March 1994-March 1995, complemented by
an IMF Compensatory Financing Facility covering a shortfall in oil revenue.
PART 1: COUNTRY PROGRAM AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Introduction
3.    Gabon is well positioned to return to substantial economic growth in the medium
term, provided the government follows a disciplined fiscal policy, replaces the state-run
development strategy that prevailed in the past with a flexible incentive framework that
promotes efficient, private-led growth, and conducts aggregate demand policy in a
nmanner consistent with the objective of maintaining a competitive real exchange rate to
promote gradual export diversification. Without such a fundamental redirection of the
development strategy, the economy will remain an enclave economy, driven by the
immediate consumption of oil rents and dominated by an inefficient public sector that
crowds out private sector activities. Under such circumstances, Gabon would continue
to be extremely vulnerable to sudden external shocks and unprepared for the eventual
depletion of its oil reserves.
4.    Accordingly, a main factor underpinning this Country Assistance Strategy is the
government's recognition that the development of the country cannot be the result
merely of a redistribution of revenues from non-renewable natural resources through
public expenditures. The new government, appointed after the December 1993
multiparty presidential election that completed the transition from one-party state to
pluralist democracy initiated by the National Conference convened in March 1990,



2
confirmed its commitment to a market economy and the disengagement of the state from
direct involvement in production. The devaluation of the CFA franc has removed an
important ccntstraint on the adjustment process. The devaluation and the program of
reforms announced in the Letter of Intent negotiated with the IM and the Statement of
Development Policy addressed to the Bank (Annex VI), could provide the basis for
Gabon's sustained economic growth in the future.
B. Backgound and Recent Economic Developments
5.    With an estimated population ofjust over one million, growing at 2.5 percent per
year, and an area of 268,000 km 2, Gabon is sparsely populated. It is rich in natural
resources (oil, manganese, uranium and forests) and enjoys one of the highest per capita
GDPs in Sub-Saharan Afiica (post-devaluation GDP per capita for 1994 is estimated at
US$3,600). It has an educated elite. Sound infrastructure has been built over the years
in telecommunication, transportation, and energy. In addition, Gabon is the repository
of an ecological diversity whose relevance goes beyond the borders of the country itself
With two-thirds of its forests either untouched or relatively undisturbed, Gabon offers
one of the largest remaining pristine ecosystems in the world. It is estimated that its
forests harbor over 8,000 plant and 600 bird species, contain Africa'% 'argest population
of forest elephants, and provide sanctuary for at least 20 primate spt;,;!es
6.    Despite Gabon's relatively high per capita GDP and the emnergence of a modem
sector and an educated elite, further progress remains to be achieved in terms of literacy
(adult illiteracy is estimated at 39 percent of the total adult population, and at 52 percent
for the female population), infant mortality (currently 95 per thousand live births), and
life expectancy (53 years at birth). The disappointing social indicators, in spite of
considerable public expenditures on health and education, underline the need for a more
efficient use of Gabon's resources and for a better utilization of budgetary allocations to
the human resources sector, particularly with a view to reducing the incidence of
poverty.
7.-   Gabon's economy is characterized by the distortions specific to many resource
rich countries, where high factor costs caused by an excessive demand for non-tradable
goods made diversification into non-resource intensive tradable products difficult. As a
result, the basis for diversified growth in Gabon still needs to be built. The economy is
dominated by the oil sector which accounts for one-third of GDP, close to half of
goivernment revenue, 50-60 percent of gross investment, and over three quarters of
merchandise exports. The past development strategy that relied on spending oil revenue
on public investnent projects with very low rates of return and on a scale that exceeded
the absorptive capacity of the economy, particularly in the mid-1970's and early 1980's,
undermined Gabon's competitiveness and exacerbated its dependence on oil. The
modem sector is dominated by inefficient parapublic enterprises. The private sector is
stifled, and the educated elite is more involved in administrative and bureaucratic tasks
than in the development of a strong entrepreneurial class. The development of
agriculture and small and medium manufacturg enterprises, that ought to provide



3
employment and income opporunities for the bulk of the labor force, has been hindered
by a loss of competitiveness. The dependency on oil is fulrther amplified by the
govermnent's overindebtedness that prevents it from stabilizing the economy through
countercycical budgetary policies.
8.   Since 1986, when the price of crude oil fell by 50 percent, Gabons economy has
been in decline. The contraction of government revenue led to a reduction in public
investment and an ensuing contraction of non-oil GDP. Real non-oil GDP growth has
been negative, averaging -1. I percent per annum from 1985 to 1993. Employment in the
formal sector has been significantly curtailed by the crisis: in 1992, the number of jobs in
the modem seci.or was 26 percent below its 1985 level. From 1986 to 1991, the last
year for which comprehensive data are available, the loss-makdng parapublic sector, that
accounts for 35 percent of the value added and 44 percent of employment of the non-oil
corporate sector, received operating subsidies and made losses amounting to an average
CFA43 billion a yrar (about 3 percent of pre-devaluation GDP) -- a clearly unsustainable
situation.
9.    Gabons first Bank-supported structural adjustment program, approved in 1988,
aimed at reversing the economic decline by: reinforcing the management of public
finances, restracturing public enterprises, improving the incentive framework to promote
private sector activity, and reorienting sectoral policies to promote agriculture and
forestry on an environmentally sound basis. The second and last tranche, in *.e amount
ofUS$30 million, wi s released in December 1989. Gains in trade and price liberalization
endured., but no fiuither progress was made after disbursement of the last tranche of the
structwuai adjustment loan. After initial progress, slippage occurred in the control over
wages, civil service reform, and the financial performance and restructuring of public
enterprises.
10.   By the end of 1993, the country was in the grips of stagnation, and the financial
difficulties of the government threatened to progressively paralyze the domestic financial
system, increasing the costs of business throughout the economy. As a result of the
disequilibrium of the public finances, the current account of the balance of payments was
in deficit. To finance its budget deficits, txe government resorted to arrears
accumulation. As of Docember 1993, extenal arrears accumulated to US$1.1 billion and
domestic arrears to about US$450 million (at the new exchange rate). Public and
publicly guarated extemal debt outstanding at the end of 1993 amounted to US$3.4
bilion, or 96 percent of projected 1994 GDP.
C. External Environment
11.   Gabon's prospects aie particularly affected by developments in the intemational
oil and financial markets and by the industrial and trade policies of neighboring
countries. A US$1 per barrel change in the oil price results in a change in budgetary oil
revenue of CFA50 billion (10 percent of the projected total revenue in 1994). The
Government's extral indebtedness is such that over 20 percent of government revenue



4
is absorbed by interest payments abroad. Given that about 15 percent of Gabon's
external debt has been contracted at variable interest rates, each percentage point
increase in world in.erest rates increase debt service payments by approximately CFAF3
billion (0.6 percent of projected revenue in 1994). In the short run, the vulnerability of
Gabon to interest rate fluctuations is increased by the fact that about one third of the
debt consists of arrears that are being rescheduled or refinanced at interest rates
reflecting the current market conditions.
12.   Competition of neighboring countries imposes constraints on the Gabonese
economy. Informal impoats of agricultural products fi-om Carteroon and manufactured
products from Nigeria hamper the country's efforts dt diversification through import
substitution. This could be mitigated by the .-cent efforts towards regional econormic
integration in the context of the creation of an Economic and Monetary Commmutity of
Central Afri;ca. If successfiul, this initiative could lead the participating countries to
agree on common rules so as to increase the gains from trade and competition and to
avoid the emergence of trade patterns reflecting variations in fiscal and administrative
privileges rather than genuine differences in costs and productivity.
13.   Gabon has no control over the industrial and commercial policies of neighboring
countries and is a price taker on the intemational oil and financial markets. The best
approach for Gabon is, therefore, to foster the adaptability of its economy to changing
circumstances by promoting the diversification of exports and the flexibility of markets,
so that price signals are transmitted quickly to consumers and producers, and that
economic agents are free to respond. The diversification of exports requires a
combination of trade and microeconomic policies reversing earlier protectionist
measures, and of macroeconomic policies consistent with a compaitive real exchange
rate.
D. lDeveloBment Objectives and the Government's Economic Proar
14.   In response to the economic realities faced by the country, the new governmint,
installed in March 1994, anhounced a fundamental change in development policy.
Following the devaluation of the regional monetary unit, the Franc de la Cooperation
FinanWckre en Afrique Centrale (CFA franc), the govermnent deci-Ied on a change of
direction and is laying the foundation of a strategy based on a redefinition of the roles of
the state and the private sector in the economy. This redefinition implies: a)
a disengagement of the state from direct intervention ir. the productive sectors; b) a
strengthening of its responsibilities as the provider of public goods, including the
protection of the environment and the biodiversity of the Gabonese forests; c) the
reinforcement of its capacity to provide an institutional framework conducive to the
development of efficient markets; and d) a greater role for competition and market
mechanisms as the main regulators of the activity of the private sector.
15.   This growth strategy rests on the restoration of international competitiveness, for
which the devaluation, complemented by a program of immediate accompanying



measures, was a starting point. Strong structural reforms to ensure that the real
exchange rate depreciation is maintained and to eliminate the excess costs of pre-
devaluation protectionist trade policy are now under preparations as the second phase of
the government's new economic strategy. The direction of further long-term structural
reforms and specific measures to implement them will be defined at a later stage. In the
case of some long-term structural reforms, specific measures still need to be identified.
These will be defined in the context of ongoing and planned economic and sector work
(discussed below in paragraph 41).
16     Key accompanying short-term measures designed to help contain increases in
domestic prices, included:
(i) capping increases in public sector wage bill at 10 percent, and giving
appropriate signils to social partners to guide wage negotiations in the
private sector;
(ii) reducing indirect taxes on petroleum products sold on the domestic
market to maintain the pump price unchanged until implementation of a new
indirect taxation system based on value added taxes between December 1994
a.Ld March 1995;
(iii) reducing average customs duties and simplification of the tariff structure.
17.   The government has expressed in the Statement of Development Policy (Annex
VI) its commitment to implement longer-term structural reforms to promote efficient
markets, regulated by competition rather than by administratve intervention, as w@el1 as
social measures to shield the most vulnerable groups from some of the effects of the
adjustment policy. The strategy for long-term growth rests on the following components
that build on Gabon's specific strengths:
o relying on the financial resources from the exploitation of oil;
o  promoting other mining activities;
ï promoting non-traditional exports (agriculture, fisheries, processed wood products,
light manufacture);
o developing the services sector, capitalizing cn the level of education and the talents
of the elite.
18.   The role of oil. Regardless of any effort to develop non-traditional exports, the
oil sector is exoected to remnain the main source of output, export income and
government revenues over the next fifteen years. The gradual depletion of oii reserves
calls for sufficient governmenIt savings to replace systematica}ly this source cf revenues
with new assets and new sources of income. These savings can take the form of
physical assets built through domestic investments that increase productivity and expand
the tax base, or through the accumulation of a portfolio of financial assets abroad or a
reduction of the public debt. The choice between the two forms of savings accuulation



6
must depend on the productivity of domestic investment and also on the required stance
of domestic aggregate demand policy in light of the objective to maintain a competitive
real exchange rate to promote export diversification.
19.  In the recent past, oil revenue was used to finance general consumption and
interest payments, in spite of the recognition that oil reserves represent a non-renewable
resource. The current rate of exploitation of petroleum is expected to be sustainable for
about 10 years; production should thei-eafler decline until known reserves are exhausted
in about 20 years. The new Governmient's program is consistent with an increase in
public savings to the equivalent of about 65 percent of the total oil revenue by 1997,
cornpared to less than 3 percent over the past five years. These savings will be used to
finance public capital expenditures of 4 to 5 percent of GDP and, after 1995, they will be
used also to achieve a systematic reduction of the external public debt. Puoaic
investment -will focus on investment projects that are supportive of private sector
activities.  Private sector investment will account for about 80 percent of total
investment in the country.
20.   Although the promotion of non-traditional agicultural exports, processed wood,
and manufactures is a vital part of the strategy for growth and the generation of income
and employment for the expanding labor force, the mining sector is expected to play a
major initial role in providing the source of new artivities in the country. In addition to
manganese and uranium, the two main non-petroleum mineral exports, Gabon is
believed to possess resources of several minerals such as phosphates, nobium, and
titanium. Exploration for lead and zinc, gold and copper is being planned. Promotion of
private sector investment to extract the fill employment and production potential of
these new mining activities is a top priority in the government's development agenda.
21.   In agriculture, the strategy will focus on smallholder farming and marketing.
Farmers must have access to up-to-date techniques through better research and
extension policies and to improved transportation networks. This strategy is expected to
reduce poverty by increasing the income of large numbers of rural families as well as
reducing the cost of food for the low income urban households. In addition, improved
productivity through better practices will be instrumental to reduce pressure on
deforestation.
22.   The development of an industy of transformation of wood, to increase the value
added of Gabonese exports of forestry products, would enable the country to take
advantage of the forestry resources while keeping cutting at a rate consistent with the
preservation of the forest. In addition, the creation and maintenance of reserves is in
progress, and an overall plan for their management is to be developed.
23;.  The growth strategy of the Government involves cross-sectoral issues.
Competition in Gabon suffers from undue influence exercised by special interest groups
enjoying monopoly positions and special privileges. Creation of a positive business
environment and reliance on the private sector as the main source of growth and income



7
creation will require the elimination of practices of granting special fiscal or protectionist
privileges. These practices should be replaced with: improvements in the regulatory
environment; a more flexible labor market, including a more liberal immigration policy;
cost effective delivery of public services; a more efficient transportation sector through
improvements in the regulations of the sector, the restructuring of the major public
enterprises of the sector, satisfactory maintenance and, where appropriate, the
development of the transportation infrastructure; an effective agricultural research and
extension system; and long-term investments in the developmeint of 'iuman resources
through better health and education policies. Fostering competition will require the
restructuring and to a large extent the privatization of the parapublic enterprises.
24.   In response to the need to foster competition, the government has already taken
steps to stimulate the private sector, encourage competitiveness and d. ersify the non-oil
industries through (i) removal of most price controls on locally produced goods; (ii)
elimination of the turnever tax on exports, except on those of natural resources; (iii)
modification of the Labor Code o stimulate the creation of new jobs by allowing
enterprises to hire apprentices below the minimum wage and pay workers according to
performed tasks; and (iv) adoption of a new Investment Code limiting the size and
duration of tax benefits offered to foreign investors, while being neutral to small- and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
25.   Simultaneously wath the promotion of competition and the establishment of a
market-based business environment, the new  government's strategy focus on
strengthening the state's capacity to fulfill its role. To that end, both a redeployment of
the civil service and a long-term effort of institutional development will be necessary.
Although the capacity of the state to manage the country is already stronger than in
other countries of the region, fiuther reinforcement of that capacity is important to
achieve the goal of sustainable development with equity while preserving the
environment.
26.   The articulation 3f a policy on the environnt is essential, because of the
richness of the Gabonese forests both in terms of biodiversity and in terms of exploitable
renewable resources. Reconciling these two aspects of the long-term economic potential
of z'.e Gabonese forests will require reforms in the regulatory framework governing the
timber industry and in strengthening the capacity of the authorities to design, monitor,
and enforce rules and policies in the sector. The policy on the environment must also
integn - other aspects of sustainable development including the effects on the
environment of mining, transportation, and urban infrastructure. A national legislative
framework on the environment was put in place in 1993. A comprehensive national
environment action plan remains to be prepared and implemented.
27.   If fillly implemented, the government's program of economic reforms is expected
to generate non-oil G(DP growth of 3.5 percent a year over the medium term after a
contraction of 3.4 percent in 1994, and to elininate all external arrears over the period
of 12 months covered by the IM  stand-by. In the longer run, growth of non-oil GDP is



8
expected to accelerate to about 6 percent a year as structural reforms bear fruit and
increase the aggregate productivity of investment. The incremental capital/output ratio
(ICOR) is expected to decline from a historical level in excess of 10 to about 6 within
the. next decade. HIowever, because petroleum output is expected to remain constant
over the next 10 years, overall GDP growth remains much lower and is projected to
reach still only about 4 percent at the turn of the century. Similarly, although non-
traditional exports are projected to increase at about 10 perccnt a year as reforms
progress, growth of overall exports, still doninated by petroleum, is projected to remain
below I percent per year. Annex VII conmpares two scenarios. The first, just described,
is based on a successful refonn leading to a i9wer ICOR after 1997, while the second is
based on  ilure to increase the productivity of investment. The most important
difference in outcome is the long-term growth rate of per capita consumption: 4 percent
in the reform scenario, as opposed to less than 1.5 percent in the alternative scenario.
28.   To ensure sustainability, the financial position of the Government has to be
restored. Budgetary measures included in the program are expected to generate a
moderate increase of the primary surplus (i.e., excluding interest payments) of the
central government in 1994, followed by a further significant improvement in 1995 due
to the lagged effect of the devaluation on tax colleeions and to an anticipated recovery
of the price of crude oil on world markets. The programmed primary surplus increases
from 0.4 percent of GDP in 1993 to 2.6 percent in 1994 and over 8 percent in 1995 and
1996. The residual borrowing requirements for 1994, after debt relief under the Paris
Club and the London Club arrangements, are estimated at CFAF184 billion (or US$305
million), an amount corresponding to 14 percent of exports of gools and non-factor
services and 36 percent of projected government revenue for 1994. The borrowing
requirements for 1994 are consistent with the program supported by the IMA  stand-by.
In the next three years, the budgetary surpluses are expected to be sufficient to
reimburse any short-term loans that will need to be negotiated to cover the 1994
financing requiremsents. Under this scenario, the Government's external debt would peak
in 1995 and decline thereafter. Table 1 presents key economic indicators for this
scenano. Additional indicators are presented in Annex VII.
Table 1: Selected Indicators
1993     1994     1995       1997     2001
REFORM SCENARIO:
MPROVEMBENT IN PRODUCTIrVrY
OF INVESTMENT
Growik ratec (volumes):
GDP                            2.59    -0.82      1.44      2.18      4.24
non-oil GDP                    1.10    -3.41      2.34      3.47      6.38
per capita consumption         -4.24    -12.95    2.10      0.15      5.25
exports                        6.08     2.73      0.44      0.04      0.71
As percent of GDP:
Goverment primaty surplus      0.45     2.58      8.61      8.88      8.15
external public debt           63.06    97.50    89.53      77.07     39.49
total external debt (public and private)  63.06    97.50  89.53  77.07  58.72



9
E. Bank Groug's Country Assistance StratcM
29.    Because of the absence of a sustainable macroeconomic framework and the
weakening commitment to reforms, the relations between Gabon and the Bank have
been characterized by very little activity over the last four years. Only one IBRD loan
and one IFC loan were approved, and no formal Economic and Sector Work was
completed. Following the devaluation, Gabon requested the assistance of the LMY and
the Bank. A Statement of Development Policy has been addressed to the Bank and the
loan proposed in this memorandum would be the Bank's first response in support of the
government's new program (Annex VI). In addition, a Letter of Intent outlining the
government's program of action for a 12 month period has been signed, and an NIF
stand-by arrangement was approved on March 30, 1994.
30.   As envisaged, the Bank's assistance to Gabon is designed to promote:
(i) poverty alleviation, through (a) sustainable economic growth and (b)
specific targeted measures including: (i) improving the productivity and income
of small scale farmers; (ii) reducing domestic food prices and thus increasing the
purchasing power of the urban poor; (iii) improving the transport network to
support agricultural production and to generate employment; (iv) identifying the
systemic problems wbich are inhibiting the provision of better health and
education services.
(fi) private sector-led gowth through policy reforms targeted at
restructuring and privatization of the parastatal enterprises and creating a
business envirownent conducive to private investments in agriculture, small-scale
manufacturing and services sectors;
(iii) adoption of a sound forestry policy to ensure the conservation and
sustainable use of existing forests;
(iv) reduction of Gabon's vulnerability to oil-related shocks and to the
depletion of oil resources through a more cautious spending of oil income, the
accumulation of public savings, and an aggregate demand policy consistent with
the competitiveness of the sector producing tradable goods;
(v) capacity building and hunan resource development through
reallocation of health and education expenditures, adoption of selective cost
recovery methods and implementation of demand-driven vocational training
programs.



10
Proposed Lending Levels and Lending Instrumeints
31.   Prior to the January 12, 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, further lending was
not justified due to the absence of a viable macroeconomic framework, including the
failure of the government to meet the performance criteria of the program supported by
the September 1991 IMF stand-by arrangement, and the cancellation of the 1991
rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. Reinstating a full lending program should
be based on: (i) a sustainable macroeconomic framework, as indicated by satisfactory
progress in the implementation of the stabilization program; (ii) significant progress in
the preparation of the restructuring and privatization of the parastatal sector, and (iii) the
start of -a substantive dialogue with the Government on the better utilization of oil
income.
Lending Strategy and Program
32.   The Bank's Assistance Strategy outlined below is predicated on the basis of the
following developments: (i) the January 12, 1994 devaluation; (ii) the approval of a new
macroeconomic program supported by a 12-month IMF stand by arrangement on March
30, 1994; (iii) the understanding on debt rescheduling and refinancing with the Paris
Club reached on April 15, 1994; (iv) the up-front measures already taken by the
government in the areas of public sector wages and trade reform; and (v) the
undertakdngs of the government articulated in the Letter of Intent addressed to the IME
and the Statement of Development Policy. The expected macroeconomic results of this
reform scenario, which constitutes the base case, were sumnarized in paragraphs 27 and
28 above. Creditworthiness issues are discussed below in paragraphs 44 to 47.
33.     Base case: The fill lending program proposed for FY94-97 would include
eight operations, committing a total of US$210 million, of which US$80 million would
be allocated to three quick-disbursing adjustment operations. This lending program
would provide average net transfers on the order of US$13 million a year. IBRD
exposure would almost double, reaching US$200 milfion (or 6 percent of the projected
extemal debt) at the end of FY97. The sectoral allocation of the proposed lending
program is summarized in Table 2.



11
Table 2: Lending Composition: A Compaison
~~~~~ta~pere    of total
1Y 1990-93                   Proposed Full Lending Program FY1994-97
Investment lending in Forestry  100%    Adjustnent lending. of which:  38 %
and Environment (one single               Economic Recovery          14 %
project)                                 Sectorat (Parapublic Sector,
Transport)                 24 %
Investment lending, of which:  62 %
Agriculture                 7 %
Human Resources            10 %
Infrastructure            45 %
Total                        100%       Total                        t0 0%
34.      The proposed lending pogrm  for FY94 and FY95, would comprise the
following four operations:
(i)    Economic Recovery Loan (FY94). The proposed operation, described
in Part 2 of this memorandum, would be a quick disbursing single tranche US$30 million
loan in support of the post-devaluation adjustment program of the government.
Satisfactory implementation of the program would establish most of the conditions
enumerated above to justify a fill lending program, including the elinination of
quantitative restrictions on imports protecting the monopolies of parapublic enterprises.
(ii)   Parapublic Sector Restructring Loan (FY95). This quick disbursing
operation would support the restructuring of the parapublic sector, including the
privatization and in some cases the liquidation of enterprises. Restructuring will require
resources to settle cross-debts, provide compensation for the reduction of the labor
force, finance necessary studies, and prepare the institutional fiamework for
privatization. The benefits to restructuing would be the better allocation of resources
through increased competition and better management, the improvement of public
finances, and the reorientation of the state's activity and investment budget towards its
core functions.
(iii)   Transport and Urban Infrastructure Technical Assistance Project (FY95).
The objectives of this project would be to: (a) help the Government prepare coherent
transport and urban sector strategies and investment plans, which take into account the
overall macroeconomic situation and the medium-term needs of the sectors; (b) help the
Government restncture the transport sector public enterprises; (c) strengthen local
capacity to manage the transport and urban sectors; and (d) contnbute to employment
generation by developing labor-based methods for urban civil works;



12
(iv)   National Agriculture Services Project (FY95). The planned project
would promote smallholder farming and strengthen the capacity of the Ministries of
Agriculture and Forestry to deliver research and extension support services, thus
contributing to the goal of reducing poverty. Urgently needed studies would be financed
in order to prepare the restructunng, piivatization, and liquidation of selected agro-
industrial enterprises before completion of the parapublic sector restructuring operation
mentioned above in the same paragraph.
35.   Other operations in the fill-lending program, envisaged for FY96-97, include an
operation to support the development of human resources, a policy-based quick
disbursing operation in the transport sector, and investments operations in the
transportation and urban infrastructure sector.
36.   Low-Case Scenario: Core Program. Failure to maintain the macroeconomic
framework consistent with sustainable growth would linmit Bank lending to a core
program consisting of two technical assistance projects and one operation in support of
human resources development. The. move into the core program would be triggered by
the following indicators that are largely under the control of the Governnent: (i)
increases in wages and public expenditures exceeding by more that 5 percent of the
targets corresponding to the stabilization program of the Government (the targets for
1995 and 1996 can be revised in light of chdrnging circumstances, such as price and
exchange rate developments); and (ii) failure to implement the conditions for the
disbursement of the Economic Recovery Loan.
37.   If the move to core lending is triggered by failure of the government to implement the
eimination of quaniative restrictions on imports, but all other conditions of the ERL are met
and fiscal discipline continues to prevail, the core program will be extended to include the
investment operation in urban infrastructure, that is expected to contribute to the Bank's
objective of poverty alleviation by improving the urban environment in low-income
residential neighborhood in Libreville, as explained below (paragraph 53). Table 3
summarizes the indicators that would trigger a move to the low case scenario.
Table 3: Low Case Scenario Triggers
1994       1995        1996
Public Finance Triers (billion of CFA Francs)
Target Wage and Salaries                        165        178         187
Trgger: Wages and Salaries in Excess of:        173        187         196
Target Total Expenditures                       650        662         680
Trigger: Total Expenditures in Excess o£        683        695         715
Trade policy Triggers:
Trgger: Failure to meet the conditions for the disbursement of the ERL.



13
Portfolio Management
38.   Between 1959-74, the Bank made seven loans to Gabon in the mining, road, and
education sectors, totaling US$69 million. In 1977, Gabon graduated from Bank
lending. Resumption of Bank lending in 1988 with a US$50 million Structural
Adjustment Loan was justified by the sudden fall in Gabonrs per capita GNP below the
graduation threshold due to the downswing in oil prices and by the govermnent's-
adoption of a structural adjustment program. In support of the reform program, the
Bank approved in 1989 a-US$5 mnillion Technical Assistance Project, now closed, and a
US$30 million Road Maintenance Project. In 1991, a US $ 22.5 million Forestry and
Environment Loan was approved. These last two projects are the only Bank-financed
projects currently under implementation. The overall performance of the portfolio has
fluctuated over the past few years, as indicated in Table 4. The Road Maintenance
Project has been the only problem project over the last four years. The low rating is due
to the fact that one of the institutional objectives of the project - the transfer of technical
expertise from technical assistants to their local counterparts - has not been achieved.
The project is scheduled to close in December 1994. The failure to take corrective
action in a timely manner can be attributed to insufficient supervision in the early stage
of implementation, as well as in shortcomings in the design of the technical assistance
component. Nevertheless, the project has succeeded in significantly improving road
maintenance and thereby has reduced the cost of road transportation. In hindsight, the
experience gained from this project shows that early supervision is essential in ensuring
meeting project objectives.



14
Table 4: Gabo - ga     lstelndicatow  of
Bank PceltUo   erfonua-ce mu'   M       a____    __                    _         .
FY91            FY92             FY93             FY94
PolfohoEMana  ement
Number of projects inder implemenation                    3                2                                38
Average i[plemetation period (yes)                       2.46            3.09             3.07             4.09
Avrage Ratins            -
Development objei.lives                                 I                2              2.33              2
Overal Status                                          1.67              2              2.33              2
Percent ofprjects rae 3 or4 4
DevelopMent objectives                                 0                0             33.33%          33.33%
Overall satus                                          0                0             33.33%.          33-33%
Canceled during FY                                        0                0               0                0
Disbumsement ratio (%o)                                 29%              .39 ,0,          20%             .17%
Dis=lMagtag (%)
Memr uuium item: % conpleted projes                      N/A             N/A              N/A              N/A
ratedw    f
PortfolioManagement
Supervision resources (total sta$wecks)                 20.34            210.26          47.60              .20
Avege supeision (staffweeks/projects)                   6.78             10C4             15.87           4,Q7C
Spervision resowures by location (in%)                   100              t00             100              100
Pernt headarte                                         100                0             100              100
Percent reid0t mnission                                 0               0                                 0
Supervwision resoures by rang categwy
(staff-weeks/cojects)
Projects rated I or 2                                   O              10.64             96             3.76
Projects rated 3 or4                                    0                0              9.67             4.67
Memoranum item: date of last/next CPPR                   N/A             N/A              N/A              NIA
a. One ofthe 3 projects closed in December 1993.
b.  Inforiaion on investmed projecs available only up to 1983.
c.  This low figue can be attbutoed   the reduction of supervision aocated to the Technia Assistance Project which
was closinginthe first halfofFY94; unrecorded    vision ofthe Road Maintea  Proje which was
done duringthe stafflweeb aUocd tothe Appraial ofthe Transport Thil A     ance Proje
39.   Efforts have been made to increase borrower ownership by ensuring its early
involvement in the preparation stage. In the Forestry/Environment Project, this approach
resulted in the active implementation of the initial stages of the project before the loan
became effective. The govemment had undertaken and has now completed 3 studies: (i)
a Forest Fiscal Study, supported by an international consultant, was further distributed
for feedback to the Ministries of Plarning and Finance, Customs, the National Timber
Company and the Foresters Syndicate; its second phase will commence soon; (ii) the
Wildlife Study was undertaken in conjunction with the World Wildlife Fund; (iii) a
Human Resources Study has recommended the transfer of staff to field offices and the
streamlining of responsibilities at the central level.



15
40.   Auditing performance by the government has improved over the last two years
and procurement procedures have been respected. Counterpart fiunding has not been a
constraint.
Economic and Sector Work
41. Because the limited involvement of the Bank in Gabon in the recent past, few
resources were allocated to economic and sector work on the country. As a result, gaps
in Bank knowledge. have developed. The lending program must therefore be
complemented by a strong program of economic and sector work to update and deepen
Bank staff understanding of the economic and social characteristics of Gabon and enrich
the policy dialog. Work on a country economic memorandum started in this fiscal year,
at the request of the government. An agricultural sector review has also been initiated.
These two studies are scheduled for completion next year. This work in progress will be
complemented with a review of the human resources sector and a poverty assessment,
scheduled for completion during FY96. In addition, a public expenditure review,
including a review of the public investment program, will be undertaken in FY97.
IIFC and MIGA
42.   IPC is currently engaged in Gabon with four projects in the mining and
petroleum sectors. These projects concern the development of the on-shore Rabi oil
field in a joint venture with Sheli Gabon and Elf Gabon (for an initial gross commitment
of US$179 million), and the construction of a specialized port and improved handling
ficilities for manganese exports. IFC total gross commitments to Gabon since 1988
amount to US$215.2 million. After taking into account repayments, cancellations and
the sale of its US$110 million share in the venture with She1l Gabon, IFC holds net
commitments amounting to US$37.1 million.
43.   Gabon signed the MIGA convention on April 15, 1994.
Cooperation with other Donors
44.    The Bank and the IMF continue to cooperate closely regarding Gabon. Bank
staff participated in the IMF mission that negotiated the Letter of Intent underlying the
12 month stand-by arrangement approved by the Fund board on March 30, 1994. Both
the Bank and the Fund supported Gabon's application for debt rescheduling at the Paris
Club on April 15, 1994. The Parts Club agreed to reschedule all debt service payments
on loans concluded before July 1, 1986, due from April 1, 1994 to March 31, 1995. The
rescheduling applies to arrears and debt service payments already rescheduled.
Rescheduling for debt service due in 1994 and 1995 is estimated to cover an amount of
US$717 million, or 70 percent of the projected residual financing gap for these two
years. The Afiican Development Bank is preparing a structural adjustment loan to
participate also in the support of the governmentes post devaluation program.



16
Creditworthiness Assessment
45.   Following the devaluation, the ratio of public extemal debt to GDP is expected
to increase from 63 percent in 1993 to a projected 97 percent in 1994. Similarly, the
debt to exports ratio is expected to increase from 159 percent in 1993 to 183 percent in
1994. Thereafter, these ratios are expected to decrease steadily as a reslt of a gradual
fal in the absolute amount of the exteral debt starting at the end of 1995.
46.   Gabonts external debt problem does not stem from insufficient foreign exchange
earnings but is the result of the government's failure to mobilize the fiscal resources that
are the counterpart -of the debt service payments. The devaluation, by increasing the
govermment's revenues in local currency (essentially from the oil sector) relative to
expenditures, will contribute to the fiscal adjustment needed to restore creditworthiness.
The fiscal adjustment included in the program negotiated with the Fund is expected to
increase the primary budgetary surplus from 0.4 percent of GDP in 1993 to 2.6 percent
in 1994. The primary surplus is expected to reach 8.6 percent ir. 1995 and 9 percent in
1996, enabling the government to begin reducing its indebtedness.
47.   As discussed in paragraph 44, Gabon regularized its relations with creditors by
ehiminating arrears through rescheduling and refinancing agreements with Pans Club and
London Club creditors in April and May 1994. Debt relief is expected to be necessary
throughout the period 1994-97, limiting Gabon's access to commercial sources of
financing in the immediate future. Nevertheless, the medium-term fiscal scenario
underpinning the IMF program is consistent with financial viability as net repayments are
projected from 1995 on.
48.   Gabon's creditworthiness for Bank financing, in spite of external arrears
amounting to one-third of its total public and publicly guaranteed medium and long-term
debt until the recent rescheduling and refinancing agreements, is justified by the
combination of the following factors: (i) the medium-term viability of the post-
devaluation progran that the LIF and the Bank are supporting; (ii) the Bank's status of
senior creditor; (iii) the moderate size of Bank exposure to Gabon (US$102.5 million, or
3 percent of Gabon's total debt at year end 1993; this percentage is expected to reach a
maximum of 6 percent in 1997 if the full lending program is implemented); and (iv) the
moderate share of multilateral creditors in total debt (11 percent).
F. Agenda for Board Consideration
49.   Risks and Contingency Plans.  There are two major risks associated with the
proposed lending program. The first risk relates to the macroeconomic framework, and
the second one concerns the commitment of the Government to the economic and social
reform agenda.



17
50.   The first risk results both from the vulnerability of Gabon to developments on the
oil market and to the ability of the Government to resist pressures tor nominal wage
increases following the reduction of the purchasing power of the CFA franc. Should the
price of oil fall and remain lower than projected, further fiscal and macaoeconomic
adjustment will be required. Should nominal wages increase to offset the devaluation,
the real exchange rate would fail to adjust as needed to restore competitiveness. In the
absence of a viable macroeconomic framework, the IBRD lending program would be
reduced to a core program consisting of the two technical assistance projects and the
operation in support of human resource development.
51.   The second risk concems the sustained comnitment of the government both to
fiscal discipline and to the reform program. This risk arises from the entrenched position
of vested interest groups that would see their privileged position threatened by the
strengthening of competition, the restructuring of the parapublic sector, and fiscal
austerity.
52.   If this risk leads to fiscal slippage, the debt of the govermment would increase
and result in renewed debt service difficulties, lack of confidence by investors and low
growth. In this case, as in the circumstances described in paragraph 50, the lending
program should be reduced to the core program.
53.   Even if fiscal discipline is maintained, cominntment to the structural reforms may
weaken. This risk is somewhat mitigated by the reforms and the up-front measures that
will be implemented as part of the proposed Economic Recovery Loan because
implementation of these measures would expose several parapub}ic enterprises to
competition and would therefore, weaken the capacity of a part of the elite sheltered in
the parapublic enterprises to resist adjustment. Failure to apply these measures or their
rapid reversal would be a clear indication that the operations involving reforms of the
parapublic sector --including the operations in the transport sector-- could not be
implemented in the prevailing circumstances. Nevertheless, to the extent that the
macroeconomic framework remains sustainable, the components of the lerding program
in which progress could still be achieved would be implemented. Under these conditions,
the FY95-97 lending program would be limited to the two technical assistance
operations, the operation in support of the development of human resources and the
investment operation in support of urban infrastructure, that is expected to benefit the
poor by contributing to the improvement of the urban environment in the urban areas
with high concentration of low income households.
54. SummaMr Assessment. The amount of resources that the Bankl makes available
to. Gabon is modest relative to the total resources of the country. The continued
presence of the Bank in Gabon is justified by the possibility to promote development and
poverty alleviation by helping to shape a consensus on major reforms that would enable
Gabon to obtain better results from the utilization of existing resources. In this respect,
constructive policy dialogue and economic and sector work must play the key role in the
Bank involvement in Gabon. There is currently fill agreement on the Government



18
stategy of private sector-led growth and the redefinition of t1.e role of the State.
Further work is needed by both sides to deepen the understanding of social issues and to
strengthen the capacity of the goverment in articulating and implementing a program of
reform in the area of human resources development and poverty alleviation.
PART 2: THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
A. Loan Amount and Justification
55.  It is proposed that an Economic Recovery Loan in an amount equivalent to
US$ 30 million be made to the Gabonese Republic. The objective cf the loan would be
to support the governent's program, as outlined in the govenmment's Statement of
Development Policy dated April 26, 1994 (Annex VI) that aims at restoring growth and
the competitiveness of the Gabonese economy.
56.   The proposed loan will make an important financial contribution in support of
the govenment's reforms (such as the trade and tariff reform and the reduction of
taxation of petroleum products for the domestic market) to which the government is
already committed but that could be reversed in response to short-term balance of
payments or budgetary financing constraints, at the expense of longer-term efficiency
considerations. A single tranche operation is appropriate in this context.
B. Project ImpLementation
57.   The Ministry in charge of the Economy is the government's organization
responsible for the implementation of the proposed project by the Borrower. The
government will arrange for an audit report by an auditor acceptable to the Bank to be
provided wiin six months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower.
58.   Conditions for disbursement of the single tranche focus on a limited number of
key measures: (i) that are essential for the potential gains in competitiveness resulting
from the devaluation to be realzed; and (ii) that can be implemented without delay.
These key measures are an integral part of the governments program included in the
Statement of Development Policy (Annex VI). The other components of the adjustment
strategy will be supported by investment operations and policy-based operations in the
context of the Country Assistance Strategy presented in Part I of this memorandum.
The four actions that would trigger the ERL disbursement are:
(i) agreement on, and implementation ot a major trade reform that includes a
four-rate import tariff structure (5, 10, 20 and 30 percent import tarig according
to the classification agreed upon in the context of the UDEAC reform), the
elimination of export duties on all exports except mineral and wood products,
and the elimination of fiscal exemptions under special regimes (Investment Code,
Single Tax, Medium and Small-Scale Enterprises Regime, Forestry Regime).



19
This reform is inportant in the new strategy for three reasons: (a) the new
import tariff structure will reduce the anti-export bias of the trade regime by
reducing both the averge tariff (customs receipts as a proportion of import tax
base will be reduced from 26 percent to 13 percent) and the dispersion of the
rates; (b) the elimination of export taxes on products other than wood and
minerals will also help make non-traditional exports more competitive; (c) the
elimination of special regimes (although incomplete until the binding special
conventions with certain enterprises are renegotiated throughout 1995) is
essential to establishing a "level playing field" and promoting competition.
Export duties on mineral and wood products are not to be eliminated at this
stage because of fiscal revenue considerations, combined with weaknesses in the
capacity of the adminisation to collect other forms of taxes that would, in
principle, be better suited than export taxes to secure for the state part of the rent
arising from the exploitation of natural resources and to protect the environment.
Reform of the fiscality on these two sectors remains on the agenda;
(i) piice liberalization and the elmination of four of the five remainng
quantitative restrictions on imports (the last remairiang restricion, on sugar
imports, will be eliminated in early 1995 as part of the program) and of the
requirement for import licenses. Quantitative restrictions remain on edible oil,
cement, soap, bottled water, and sugar, all of which are produced by parapublic
enterprises and constitute in effect monopolies. Their elimination will foster
competition and eliminate the monopoly position of the parapublic enterprises;
CMii) reform of the pricing system for energy products. The high price of energy
in Gabon contributes to the lack of competitiveness of Gabonese producers.
Proper pricing of energy is important to induce its efficient use. For petroleum
products, the objective of the reform will be a) to reduce the excess cost of
petroleun products by lowering the fiscal levies on them; and b) to increase
efficiency by linking the prices paid to the refinery to import parity ;ces. For
electicity, the immediate measures wil' Fm to establish diffierenti.d tariffs
reflecting the specific cost conditions of the different grids supplying power to
different locatior.s;
(iv) adjustment of the 1994 budgetary allocations to the social sector (health and
education) to prevent any reduction of the real resources available to these
sectors due to the increased prices of goods and services. The budgetary
allocations in the revised Budget Law for 1994 wiul be adjusted to correspond
fully to the budgetary allocations of the pre-devaluation allocation in terms of
purchasing power.
59.   The proposed loan  would be quick-disbursing to allow the government to
proceed quickly with the reforms that have a signficant budgetary cost (reduction of
the import tax rates and reduction of the indirect taxes on petroleum products sold on



20
the domestic market), and in spite of the lags in collection of the additional revenue
generated by the devaluation.
C. EnvironmentalAsects
60.   In conformity with Bank policies for adjustment operations, no environumental
rating has been assigned to the proposed operation. The government recognizes in the
Statement of Development Policy (Annex VI) that the development of the torestry
sector requires the articulation of a coherent environmental policy.
D. Poverty Alleviation
61.   The proposed operation meets the criteria for poverty-focused adjustment loan
as it (i) supports a reallocation of public expenditures towards the social sectors of basic
education and health, and (ii) focuses on the elimination of two distortions that
disadvantage the poor. First, by reducing the excessive taxation of fuel, the operation
will contribute to reducing the cost of transportation of local produce to the major urban
centers. As a consequence, the cost of living will be reduced for the low-income urban
dwellers who allocate a higher share of their food budget to local products. At the same
time, new income opportunities will be created for rural producers who include a very
large number of  low-income eamers.  Second, the elirnination of quantitative
restrictions on imports of cooking oil and sugar are expected to lower prices and
increase significantly the purchasing power of low income earners, particularly in the
cities.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
62..  Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of funds while
ensuring efficiency and accounitability in the process. It is proposed that eligible imports
by public agencies ad by the private sector exceeding US$5 million would be subject to
simplified international competitive bidding. Procurement by public agencies for items
costing below the threshold would follow standard government practices found to be
acceptable. Eligible imports below the threshold by private entities would be procured
in accordance with normal commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations
would be sought from at least two countries. Single source purchasing would be
permitted for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment
requires standardization. Contracts valued less than US$5,000 would not be eligible for
financing under the credit. Procurement documentation would be maintained for ex-
post review by the Bank. The documentation may consist of (i) a brief description of
procurement procedures; (ii) an evaluation summary giving numbers of bids received;
(ini) a comparative statement of prices received; (iv) dates of contracts and payments; (v)
a copy of the invoice; and (vi) any other documentation required by disbursements.
63.   The proceeds of the loan would be used to reimburse 100 per cent of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible general imports. On an exceptional basis, to allow for timely



21
disbursements, no linitation is placed on petroleum or food imports Public and private
sector imports would be eligible, except for (i) a negative list andi (ii) goods already
financed by multilateral and bilateral credits and grants. Given the emergency nature of
the proposed loan, the up front action already taken by the govemment, and the need to
allow rapid disbursement of financing expected to be made available later this year by
other donors, retroactive financing will be permitted for an amount of up to 100 percent
of eligible imports procured no earlier than six month ptior to the date of signing of loan
agreement.
64.   Disbursements would be against Statements of Fxpenditures (SOEs) for eligible
contract valued at US$5,000,000 or less. The supporting documentation for these would
be retained by the Ministry of Finance and would be made available to Bank staff during
supervision and audited annually by independent auditors. The nature and the origin of
goods as well as the import date will be indicated on the SOEs. Expenditures for goods
procured under invoices for US$5,000 equivalent or less would not eligible for financing
out of the loan proceeds. All other disbursements will be made against full
documentation submitted to the Bank.
F. Risks and Benefits
65.   Benefits. The benefits of the operation will be to accelerate the adjustment of
the Gabonese economy to the new parity, to consolidate the gains in competitiveness
made possible by the devaluation, and to estab'ish the foundations for future growth.
The conditionality on the budgetary allocations to health and education is designed to
shield these sectors from the effects of the *ievaluation on the purchasing power of
nominal allocations, pending further reforms to be supported by a future Bank-
supported operation in Human Resources Development.
66.   Risks. The two main risks are: a) that the policy of wage restraint will fail, due
either to political and social pressures or to an excessively expansionary aggregate
demand policy, and b) that the world market price of petroleum will fall further,
resulting in a shortfall in government revenue and further accumulation of internal
arrears, with ensuing financial distress throughout the economy. The first risk is
alleviated by the existence of an IMF-supported program that includes benchmarks
related to wages. It is also alleviated by the measures taken to reduce the excessive
costs to the Gabonese economy resulting from past protectionist trade policies and the
excessive taxation of energy. These measures, in effect, will translate indirectly into an
increase of the purchasing power of wages and thus help contain demands for nominal
wage increases. The second risk is alleviated by the contingency clauses included in the
IMF stand-by arrangement: The government has agreed to provide for the constitution
of a reserve at the Central Bank by blocking the counterpart of the purchases from the
IMF under the stand-by arrangement. This reserve will be mobilized only in the event of
deviations of oil revenue from the planned path as a result of a decline in the price of
petroleum.



22
PaART 3: RECOMMENDATION
67.   1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the articles of
agreement of the Bank and reconmnend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington D.C.
May 31, 1994
Attachments



ANNEXES
Annex I        -    Main Economic Indicators
Annex II       -    Priority Poverty Indicators
Annex III      -    Key Exposure Indicators
Annex IV       -    Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex V        -    Supplementary Data Sheet on the
Economic Recovery Loan
Annex VI       -    Government's Statement of Development Strategy
Annex VII      -    Projections to 2005.



Awatex I
Page I of 4
Gabon: Selected Economic Indicators, 1988-97
1988     1989      1990     1991      1902     1993      1994      199S     1996      1997
CDP otf 6lt, ln9                                           419%      700%     402-    6 's s     2.36 .    2 59%    40 2%     1 44%     166%4    2 18.
Oi GDP w Ccr6w P,4o0                                     346%    3414%   2-35 3%    1304%.   - 69'.   325%         763%      0 01%    001%      001%
N    G Di00 GOP at imsWPrim                               440       . .090%   -.43T3   350%    -;.lS      I I%O$i  .341%      234%     2668%     347A
GOP D501W                                                  729Y.   1026%.   608%    -350C∞    0350         040%    36.91%    t004.    46715    3.35Y
ODP $OI wmPnPro.                                          I1,79     1799%.  41035%      301%  .- .8n       3100.   33579%    1163%      6.41%.  560%
PoV& CwAMpuD.Dao6                                          0 10.   -062%    046Y.    1 46%       191%    537%    2808%       5f96%     506%     354Y.
EofG  a0oo& &N(*.F8 r 5nioos                              .0.3504'.  4582%;  22.04%    -347%    -415%      144-s   8763%    11.7%       346%     314%
(=uWCFAF)
bp9Q    o odA  & No-Fact   4envi                           - 17%    I03% -S   5 93%    . 84.   -2 505.    3 01%   85.87%      6 77Y.   3.10%    3.493
(O=a&CFAF)
E3O1Vaww                                                  13.72%    34 13%    106%    2IY;-   365%        608%I    2.73.   0.44.   013$C    004%
23q888fd  off 0ww                                         5.75%   2837%    32.05%    1015%    .0.44%      592%     329%      030%      0 00%    000%
ImpnVd( 0                                                 46M%      3.729.  .083.   .610'.   4.17$        14.%    -7.18%    329%    -027%        0.42%
Tmo tAd                                                  .1439%.   226%    1582Y   -II 08%.   -124%    -580%    4.79%    7I4AS    .0.03%    0.3O%
ToawR.wlM                                                 -420%.    455h   2589%.   16.42%    - 29         39SX    44.25%   30.5St.   6.96%       1 77%
OilRtenu                                                 15.50%.    .72%   114.26%   2258%   -12 15%    707%    6190%   43.75Y.   5.88%          I89%
TOWIER=ftz                                                -2 70%   .3835%    8.16%      608%     1 14%     720%.   45.02%     1.86%    2.74%    -1.06W
*mntRJleoiU                                               4.353%    1.05Y.  15.25%    2 538.   2 43%      6.70%    36.07%     2 46%     1.62%   -1 41%
C*mIEaiD xe                                             J43.13%     7.55%   -3.93%   22.51%   -3,94%      932%.   81.82%      0.00%    6.25%    0.00%
MNl   sad Cei
Domcedi                                                    L.93%    -6.09%   -13.36%    2.70%    9.21%     321%    18.29%    9.87N.   689%       7.00%
CalowbCbntmlGaovL (Not)                                  41.85%   *15g9%   .4265%    43.35%   11937%      3.92%    45397     9.95%     7.00%     7.00%
C Secla Pli w 3Sctor                                      -591%     1.38%   -0.17%     453%   -4007%    -2.73%    23.50Y.         .
C* oa0n rO F -11E                                        -13 90%    0 37%    6.57%    -1 15%   S2 19%   12.16%  -103.24%
MeWo QUiMcney                                              4.15%     1.65%    3.68%    382%   -11.23%    -466%    1946%    10.45%    15.51%    11.99%
OraD fBudtry Bance  D.ho(-)                              -11.21%   -7.54%   -4.43-..  -2 55%    - 12y.  -5.82%    -6.21%    0.56%       1.66%    2.32%
Pdmuy Bale                                                -5.20%    .1.5Y%    1.65%    346%      1.15%     .45%     2.58%     8.61%    899%      &8.8%
(femOD        c    tOO iwad                               37.51%   3243%   24.38%    26MM1%   21.3Wq   21.60%    26.40Y    24.90%   24.59%   24.S4%
Pullao b5w6ou                                            3S05%   30.02%   21.71%   218I5    17 25%    17.39.   2081%    I9.89Y.   1956Y.  20.09%
4     da  icn6Smizup                                      32.34%   3g67%   41.21%   4149%   3541%   34.92%    45.23%    45.60%   44S86%    44.51%
R     _ Rm Bamm                                           .5.17%    6.24%    16S83%    14.92%   14.03%    13.33%    M.83%   20.70'.   20.2%    19.66%
2-.d IC.,     eImat Bdwn                                 -I6.13%   -453%    3.30%       2.77%    -1.10%    -1.92%    -2.70%   1.00%     1.66%    2.09%
Mack oF=        Dstf.                                     63.63%   57.95%   57.96%   61.43%   60.54%   63.06%    97.50%   89.53%   83.07%   77.07%
.tbUim ofCF?F                                              776.0    780O      861.0    9400    909.0    97.2   2047.4   2098.8   207.    2030.2
4i2- fr- a f US 3                                         2437.3   244531   31624    3332 1   34342    3404.5   3385.8   34345   3345.8   323S0
Poaukti(Mcga)                                               0.99      0.92      0.94     096       0.99      1.01     l.G4      1.06      1.09     1.12
V &                                                       2.5%      2.5%     2.5%      2.5%     2.5%      2.5%      2.5%     2.5%      2.5%      2.5%
Red C-_Vf- pe  Capila                                       857.5    9003      9230     9120    9459       905.8    788.5    805.0    806.3    807.7
COOO CFAFYpa)
vuwdt'.060%                                                        4.99%    2.75%    -141%     371%   -424%   -12.95%       2.19%     0.16%    015%
Ddet S       R,io*Ro f (% of epx
BeandMufe*dAioeead1en                                    3294%   23.40%   20.06%   21.91%   2360%    2188%   25.01%   24.69%   23.19%   20.68%
AJ U MIde1tt                                              9.8%    871%    9.27%   2121%   22.73%   21.86%   20.99%   20.30%   21.81%    19.40%
Ilk BE of CA
ODP taa MMLe*t"Pd                                          11409    1346.1   148A5.4   130 1    1501.4   1546.5   2100.0   25U.2   24944   2634.1
Oeuent peymobhalm (eot)                                       3.6     41.5      3.6      87.3      89.S   19.0   -722.1    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0
0         tMu..d=w m                                         3.6      7.7       0.8      8 1      26.1      40.0    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0
O.lpfexleufblk    e                                          0.0     33.8      54.8      792      63.7    119.0    -9tl         0.0       0.0      0.0



Page  I
Gabon: National Accounts, 1988-97                                     Page20f4
(i b Wora ofCFAF)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
GDP                         1140.9  1346.1  1485.4  1530.1  150t.4  1546.5  2100.0  2344.2  24944   2634.1
o/wNet ndirctTaxer          110.0   114.1   106.5   132.9   119.1-   124.4   163.2   184.9   198.2-  -2-01.
GDPfactor cost              1030.9  1232.0  1378.9  1397f2   1382.3  1422.1  1936.8  2159.3  2296.2  2432.6
Agricumnx                   1280    125.7   127.3   126.1   123.7   127.5   173.1   1932    205.6   217.1
Indtssvy                    416 1   607.2   736,7   723.7   6803    691.4  1139.9  1263.4  1310.8  1362.7
Cl                          208.4   380.6   519.2   495.0   455.9   460.2   826.0   913.0   93.0   969.0
Non-Oil                     155.4  -179.7   172.4   176.2   172.9   178.1   241.8-   269.9   287.2   303.3
Comtruclion                  52.3   -46.9    45.1    52.5    51.5    53.1    72.1    80.4    85.6    90.4
S svice                     596.8   613.2   621.4   6803    697.4   727.7   787.0   887.6   978.0  1054.3
Resoure Balank               .59.0    84.0   250.0   228.2   210.6   206.1   395.4   485.2   505.6   518.0
Total DM"                   47S.0   527.0   495.7   491.6   479.3   493.7   917.7   979.8  1010.2  1045.4
TotalExports                419.0   611.0   745.7   719.8   689.9   699.8  1313.1  1465.0  1515.8  1363.4
DomieticAbeoqpion           1199.9  1262.1  1235.4  1301.9  1290.8  1340.4  1704.6  1859.0  1988.8  2116.2
TotalComsumption             771.9   825.5   873.2   895.3   969.8   1006.4  1150.1  1275.2  1375.5  1461.8
PubliqConsurption           226.0   233.1   251.3   268.7   292.1   298.9   340.0   361.5   374.6   378.2
PrivateConsumption          545.9   592.4   621.9   626.6   677.7   707.5   810.1   913.7  1000.9  1083.6
Total nvesent                428.0   436.6   362.2   406.6   321.0   334.0   554.5   583.8   613.3   654.4
PubeIclnvestnwut             22.0    31.8    36.1    67.9    62.0    65.0   117.5   117.5   125.3   125.3
Privaue fnvstieit           406.0   404.8   326.1   338.7   259.0   269.0   437.0   466.3   488.0   529.1
ownssDmeicSavins             369.0   520.6   612.2   634.8   531.6   540.1   949.8  1069.0  1118.9  1172.3
Constant 1989 a
ODP atmauketpces            1258.0  1346.1  1400.2  1494.7  1459.4  1497.1  14S4.9  1506.3  1531.4  1567
NetlmffrectTaws             121.3   114.1   100.4   129.8   115.8   120.4   115.4   118.8   121.7   119.7
GDPtat ourcosts             1136.7  1232.0  1299.8  1364.9  1343.6  1376.7  1369.5  1387.5  1409.7  1445.0
Agi--r                      126.8   125.7   120.3   124.5   121.8   123.1   118.9   121.7   125.0   129.3
bndusty                     512.4   607.2   693.1   762.8   743.4   773.3   785.8   790.8   796.7   804.6
Oil                         283.7   380.6   476.3   538.4   523.9   551.4   571.4   571.4   571.5   571.5
Non40i Seo                  181.3   179.7   172.0   178.0   174.1   176.0   170.0   174.0   178.7   184.9
Consburtio                   47.3    46.9    44.9    46.5    45.4    45.9    44.4    45.4    46.6    48.2
Services                    618.8   613.2   586.8   607.4   594.1   600.7   580.2   593.8   609.7   630.8
Reource Badan                -52.7    84.0   156.1   206.9   212.2   248.6   306.8   294.4   296.8   295.0
TOal mporu                  508.1   527.0   522.5   490.6   511.1   518.7    41.4   497.2   495.9   498.0
Total Expot                 455.5   611.0   678.6   697.6   723.3   767.3   788.2    7 t.7   792.7   793.0
DometioAbsoion              1310.7  1262.1  1244.2  1287.8  1247.2  1242.5  1178.1  1211.9  1234.5  1269.7
Tc4alcmmpUoa                 767.1   825.5   869.3   878.4   933.7   916.4   817.6   855.5   878.4   901.6
PtblicCasumption            240.9   233.1   23E2    241.8   246.1   242.9   251.2   247.6   246.7   247.5
PtivateComuption            526.2   592.4   633.1   636.6   687.6   673.4   566.4   608.0   631.7   6S4.0
TtaO  Ietmnt                 543.5   436.6   374.9   409.4   313.5   332.2   360.5   356.4   356.2   368.1
Public tnvaesmna             27.9    31.8    37.4    68.4    60.5    64.6    76.4    71.7    72.8    70.5
Private Invesmnt            522.3   404.1   333.8   336.7   252.9   267.5   284.1   284.6   283.4   297.6



Annex
Gabon: Fiscal Accounts, 1987-97
(9 b&mb%ofCFAn)
1987    1988    1989    19Y0    1991        99     1993    1994    1993    1996    194
ToaIIlRcwlet&068                               2580    246.6   2586    3237    3-4.2    3410    3580    519.2   6749    7212    733.8
TOW  .m                                        252.2   2416    2526    3180    3-02    3395    353.0   5092    664.9   7112    723.8
Oil R8vzme                                      64S      745     680    145S    1786    1569    1680    272.0   3910    4140    4218
NonoilRme                                      197)   1671    1846    1723    7916    18 6    1850    2372    2739    2972    3070
T.  Rem                    ..J77 0    162.7    173 2    161h    18S 9    11 3    i75 O    227 2    263.9   296 2    291.0
DivaTm                                         492     452      542      5l5     483      459      461     566      71.0    78.0    7S0
lid,t~tToxt1                                  112.3   1100    114.1    1065    132.9   1191    124.a   1632    1849    198.2   201.5
D' s5Ton  Cka&Savwg                            479     460      46.4    490      .97      53.3    541      600      670     740      740
T68t-wanraoniTeMde                             644     640      67.7    55       782      65S     703    1G32    1179    1242    1275
- TcWco1mpcip.b                                 S96     606      64.3 .  54.1    73.1    644        63.8    88.2    929       992    1025
T7wmlExpoats                                   4.8      3.4     34       34      S 1      1.4      6 5    iS0      25.0    25.0     250
Othr Tuft                                      15.5      7.5     49       3.6      47      63       45      7.4      8.0    10.0    115
Nlcamtnrm                                       11O.7    4.4    11.4    107        57      It 3    10.0    10.0    10.0    11.0    11.0
rants                                            5        5.0     60       5       40       1.3      5.0    10.0    100       100     10.0
TOW BmipEm                                     3g4.9   374.5   360.1   389.5   4132    417.9   448.0   649.7   661.7   679.8   6726
Qm   Lmqxdi                                    263.7   2757    2786    321.1    3294    3374    360.0   4897    501.7   509.8    5.6
Comump8io 189.8   1906    1852    211.1    2195    227.4   243.0   275.0   288.0   299.0   30i!0
W        & SaLar&                             105.4   106.6   104.3   125.6   1321    1447    1500    1650    178.0   1870    190.0
Goodsid ohcr av                                844     84.0    80.9    85.5    874        82.7    93.0   1100    1100    112.0   1120
Trwsfm& %Aodm                                  21.2    16.5    16.8    197        179      159     200      30.0    25.0    28.0    28.0
hltewtpoymcrltz                                52.7    68.6    76.6    903        r2.0    941      97.0   184.7   188.7   182.8   172.6
ilu!Ni                                         40.5    486      56.8    70 1     72 4     73.8    ?7.0   1487    153.7   152.8   147.6
OeW mtb  1aonp1fi1                               ..    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     6.8    17.5    23.5    26.1
Domebe                                         12.2    200      198      202     19.6    20.3    20.0    36.0    35.0    300         25.0
CEaltxpezl                                     116.4    66.2    71.2    68.4    83.8    S05         88.0   160.0   160.0   170.0   170.0
Ovaf)lD1IeO. 6t(.)                            -126.9  -1279   -101.5   -653.    .39.0   -769    -90.0  -130.5    13.2    41.4    61.2
PhmyRamo                                       -74.2   .59.3   -24.9    24.5    53.0    17.2         7.0    54.2   201.9   224.2   233.8
Th~iu                                          1265    127.9   101.5    65.8    38.9    76.9    90.0   130.5   -13.1   -41.4    61.1
(= eW*m&dbmofCmw)
ramming                                        149.1   124.3    60.0    10.2   -48.4   *12.9   .69.0   852.6    16.9   -11.4   -31.1
D1)asdu Fic?izmng                               50.0    39.4     0.2   .18.4    -3 1    695        20.3    -0.0   -95.0   -35.0   -35.0
BanicigSyam(no)                                59.6    17 7     .6.3   -56.7    -8.S    44.2        0.0   -20.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
QCWBu*                                        59.0    11.3    48.4   -55.2       1.5    307         ..      ..
OfWfl                                        11.9   -127      .1.4    -2.6    -3.8       39    -10.0      3.0   -11.0    -3.2         -
Odmwlrmwmn                                     0.6      64      21      -1.5   -10.      13.5       ..      ..
ampin Anem(st)                                -22.6      3.6     7.7      08      8.1    26.1    40.0   -30.0   -30.0   -30.0   -30.0
Nai4&mkSo.xnm                                  13.0    18.1    -1.2    37.5    .2.4    .0.8   -19.7   d10.0   .80.0   -20.0   .200
PA&=='mmb                                      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      00    32.3    .7.0        0.0   -50.0      0.0      0.0
CaimAA        dAmot                            -1.0    -4.8   .127    -36.9   -38.5   -38,7   -12.7   -10.0   -20.0   -20.0   -20.0
O )D aNt                                       14.0    22.9    11.5    74.4    36.1        5.6     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
FPmncAbtned                                     76.5    88.    101.3    842       42.0      7.4    69.7   190.5    81.9    .6.4   .26.1
DtwivpanLms                                    76.5    70.7    55.9    28.4    43.1    267         25.0   313.9   221.3   167.7   126.2
&w p811iow"u                                  0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   183.8   100.2    52.7    11.2
Amtidwindu                                    .89.7   -788    -78.2   -79.5     85 3    4890    .74.3  .1761   -203.7  -195.1  41723
ChnpiAnAa (t)                                   0.0     0.0    33.8    54.8    792        637    119.0   -91         0.0      0.0     0.0
D8kRadtMiRging1pIm                             89.7    96.6    89.8    80.5       5.0      6.0      0.0   674.3    42.9       0.0     0.0
Da keosl1aIim                                   0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.o      0.0    70.5    21.4    21.0    20.0
Mrm
OIpfLoM                                         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   183.    1002       52.7    11.2
BimuIDubli Debt (SUS,lII)                     1896.6  2437.5  2294.6  3052.2  3222.2  3351.1  33S91   3385.8  3434.5  3345.8  3238.0
(9i1PNOSMOP)
328m1 Public Deb                             55-85%   63.63%   54.38%   55.94%  39.41%   59.08%   62.22%   97.50%   89.53%   83.07%   77.07%
Totd Rwismic                                  24.7%    21.2%    18.8%    21.4%    24.2%    22.6%    228%    24.2%    28.4%    28&%    27.%
Ol lRtum                                       6.3%    6.5%     5.1%     9S%    11.7%    10.5%    10.9%    13.0%    16.7%    16.6%    160%
OCwulbpI8e                                    25.1%   24.2%    20.7%    21.6%    21.5%    22.5%    23.3%    33%    21.4%    20.4%   19.1%
OnillBalm=                                    -12.4%   -11.2%    -7.5%    4.4%    .2,5%    -5.1%    .5.%    4.2%     0.6%    1.7%     23%



Gabon: Balanct of Paynents, 19W97                                                 Pg44
19S8    1989     1990      1991     92       1993     194      1995     1996    1997
Cunfnt Aewat
BaP" QfGood &  Now-Fe" SerSvices                    4190    6110    745.1    719.       689.9    6998   13131    14650  115,8   15634
Mavimidise Ea fo b                                  356.0    5190    6776    62S4    598.0    605.6   11202    124g.3   t2S98   1330.3
o/wOiiS sc                                        2210    3760    543.0    5127    48S0    492.9    8950    9898    MTI7lo I0OSt
EoxtofNon-F  rScnio                                  630     92.0     68.0      91.4     919      942    192.8    216.7    225.9   233.1
dw OilSect                                           ..    24 0     206       43.5     44.4     45 2     92 3    102 0    104.8    108.3
hpSofGoodsOOAtNonFatoSafna                         478.0   527.0   495.7    491.6    479.3    4937    9177    979.8   10102   10454
Muchdisaimpvt fob                                   23St    239.8    2192    242.9    234.6    2393    4409    4738    4S66    5041
kwbOiNSotnr re103.0                                          lO     670       590      530      575    126.6    1373    1411    156.3
3npotbofNon.FatoterSiccwa                          -24243    287.2   2765    248.6    24K7    2544    4768    506.0    523.6   541.3
o!wOitSectr                                       133.0    1670    135.1    1261      110.I     119.4    243.3    256.2    268.5    283.0
Re=u Belnce                                         ,59.0     84,0    250.0    228.2    216    206 i    395.4    4852    505.6    518.0
FPo onome:Reipt                                       5.0      6.0      5.5      7.9    I1S         7.0      84       84       8.0      7.4
Otherk" anlone                                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Dne    sa wome                                       50       6.0      5.5       .9      125       70      S.4       S.4      8.0      7.4
Fatcwrln. 1akaU                                     87.0    111.0    169.4    160.5    201.6    206.S    4062    410.1    407.9    401.g
cert)Due cLlM)                                      57.0    660       70.1     724      73.8     7S.8    152.2    158.0    1565    151.0
ofw  neat an0ffil                                   0.0      0.0      o.o      00       ao       0.0      6.S      17.5     23.5     26.1
Directsotinm e                                      30.0    45.0    99.3       88.1    127.8    128.0    2540    2521    251.3    2508
cyOfl Sector                                       19.0    19.0      64.2     45.4     67.4     70.4    139.       .1    136.S    1359
oWNon-iOaSc"tt                                     11.0    26.0    35.1       42.7     60.4     57.6    1146    114.0    114.7    114.9
I9etF8cwD w                                          -20   -105.0   -163.9  .1526    -189.1   -199.8   -397.9   .401.7   -399.9   *394.4
Tol Tnsfec Reeipts                                   16.0    I40       16.0     13.0     14.0      15.0     23.3     23.3     23.3     23.3
Totl Tguam: PymaUs                                   59.0    54.0      53.0     46.3     520       51.0    77.5      835      S7.7     91.8
Net T.ansfa                                          -43.0    40.0    .37.0    -33.3    -38S0     .36.0    -54.2    -60.2    -64.4    .685
ctw OilSetor                                       -17.0   -200    .21.0   -15.7    -18.       .19.0    -30.0    -31.5    -33.1   .34.7
Non-Oil                                            -26.0   -20.0    -16.0    -17.6    -19.9    .17.0    -24.2    -28.7   -31.3    -33.8
Ka FfiiteTmnsf:n                                    46.0   .430       -43.0    -35.3    -41.0    -40.0    -65.5    -71.5    .75.7   -79.S
Not PublicTumtsf                                      3.0      3.0      60       20       3.0      4.0     11.3     11.3    1t.3      11.3
Cmuw Accor BaBdnot                                 .1-7.0   -64.0      43.0     40.4    .19.5    -33.7    -679       12.1     30.0    43.8
(    eolldi% oal  apilUa1  )
-CROW Attount
Dbnc.wAtf   ndPkleDelt                              110.0     11.0    -19.8    .44.2      4.8      6.9      53        4.3      2.9     6.
NotFio,cnOffidclDebt                                 *17.0    *15.0   -51.1    -42.2     -23      *49.3    137.8     17.6    -27.4    46.1
D    Es  t                                          64.0    62.0    28.4    43.1        267      25.0    3139    221.3    167.7    126.2
ow gy 1l1task                                      Q0.      0.0      0.0      0.0      Q0       0.0   1t3.t    100.2       52.1     11.2
Anmd=tm                                             81.0     77.0     79.5     85.3     89.0     74.3    176.1    203.7    195.1    17.73
stworTezm Capitad                                    -5.0    *5S9.    44.0   -23.6    -44.9       4t.4   -122.5    -71.5      -3.7     22.3
CapitalAgotBaaene                                    80.O   -59.0   -114.9  -.10.0   -1024    .89.8        20.5   .49.6    -2S.2    -15.7
OUallbance                                           -99.0  -120.0    -5.9    .67.6   -1189   -119.6    -36.1    -26.2       13.1     39.4
Finanig                                              97.6    119.7     65.5     68.0    IlSt    119.1       36.1     26.3    -13.1    -39.4
Cadw  Bak                                             1.0    -3.9   .69.       -16.2     49.1      0.1    -16.6    -3S.0    -34.1    -594
IMF                                                 20.0     .1.0      -25     .0.5     -8.3    -10.3     41.5      .5.4     -3.2    -10.5
PReliu                                              22.0      2.0       5       6.5      1.3      0.0     54.6      5.5      0.0      0.0
R      qpmadia,a                                    -2.0    -3.0      -4.0     -7.0     -9.6    -10.3   -13.1    -10.9       -3.2    -10.5
OdwAta                                              -23.0    -3.0    -67.4    -15.7     57.4      10.4    -S8.1    -32.6    -30.9    48.8
RadduIme                                             96.6     89.8     80.5      5.0      6.0      0.0    674.3     42.9      0O.      0.0
DeAtuditdta                                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0O.       0.0     70.5     21.4     21.0     20.0
Anue                                                  0.0    33.8      54S      79.2     63.7    119.0   492.t1      0.0               0.0
aptU Lasn                                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    183.8    100.2      527      11.2
TaauofTmde                                           97.8    100.0    115.8    103.0    101.7     95.S      87.4     93.9     93.9     939
AsePaentofGl]P
amea AocoI   B     s                              *t-14.4%    -4.t%   2.9%C   216%    -1.3%    -.2.   .3.2%        0.5%      1.2%     1.7%
StokOfFceUpDgbt                                   0.6%    S7.9% 9   A50      61.4%    60.5%   60.1%    97.5%    B9.5%    83.1%    77.m%



Annex 1
Page I of 2
Gabon: Priority Poverty Indicators
Most Same regincet group              N
25-30       15-20        teaew         lu3ii-   Upp-          h4kw
Uni Of             y           yeac       ftim        Saharan      nmd4-         MC,
IndicAto.                                   measure So                        agOA        (nre)       Afra       JcOMe         grML
POVERTY
upper pvary line                            locarl      .       ,   ..          ...        .
H edoom index                              % of pop                ..          ..           ...
Low poverty line                           local cun.               ..          -. 
Ha dooud indcx                             % of pop.               ..           .            ..
GPpercapia                                    USS                 400        2.620        3.780         350        3,x20       20,570
SHORT TER1M INCOME INDICATORS
Unskedubana                                 local cur.                                        ..           .
U)iled nowal wages                                                              ..
Ruwal tamis of uadc
Counerpric index                            19S7-100               17           32          10S
Lower come                                              -    .            ..                 ..
Food                                                               ..          ..          100
Urban                                         '                    .     ..                 ..           .           ..
Rua                                                               ..          ..            ..
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expendifd  on basic wcual scrvices   % of GDP                *'                        7
Or       1 azrollnea razios
Prmazy                                   % schoolagepop.          134          102            ..         70          107         105
Male                                                             146          10S            ..          76          ..         103
Fanale                                                           122          100            ..         60           1. 103
menality
Iarantmonality                          thou. live buths         153          126           95          104          33           8
Under 5  mortlity                                                  ..           .          154          177          40          10
Immumizaiion
MeaS1-∞ Age group                                                               ..          66          40           ..          75
DFT                                                               ..           ..           59           35          ..          88
Child maniion (under.5)                                            5..          ..            5
Life e   _ancy
Total                                        ye                   42           46           53          51           69          77
Fernales(mles                                ratio               1.08        1.07         1.06         1.06        1.11         1.06
Tota feilitiy rate                       birht per wottan          4.1         4.3          5.8          6.4         2.6          1.8
Matemal mornality ate                   100,000 live birs           ..          ..            ....
Population growth rate                        Infant mortality rate                          Primary enrollment
('cant)               -(thou. of live births)                                              (PaIt)
6 +                                      250                                           120+
5                                          200                                            100
4                                                                                          so
O50
-3                  u60
-             ~~~~100
2 
I                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
0                                      4      0                                             0 -- .            .-
add 6O      msdd70s       anzmd 60s    misd70s                       nwn                    mid 60s   mid 70s      an
Gabon



Anne% II
Page 2 of 2
Gabon: Resources And Expenditures
2540        1J4IL0      reaaer       .Sub-      UPP.-        high
Unit of            YIN"        YOM       ectil"de    Selu'ur      noiddl-      iuruaa
HUMAN RESOURCES
Populaton (tsu- 199)                       thousands             495         637        1.168     4832         632.037     82.426
Age dependency ratio                         raii,              0.63         0.62        0.80         0.97        0.63        0.49
Urbn                                       % ofpop.             21.2         30,6        47.0    -.  2.?        7-9-72         77.0
Population gowth rate                      annual%               -1.2         4.8         2.8          3.0         1.1          0.7'
Urtan                                                            2A4         8.1         5.6          5.0         Al.0         0.7
Labor fome (15-Q)  ~thots.ads                         449         481          541      203,947     243,141     388,037
LAboriuturce (54)%Of laborforc                                    82          78            .
IndutrVY                                                           8           to
Female                                                            4 1       - 40           37           37          30          38
Faualeper 100males-
Urban                                      nunmber.                            .            ..
Rurml
NATURAL RESOURICES
AreA                                     thou. sq. km            268         268          268       23,066      38,944      31,682
Dansity                                  pop. per sq. kmn         2.0         2.0          4.0        20.0        16.0         26.0
A~~tculturaI1an4  ~~~~~%oflandanta                    20.4        20.1         20.0    -    Lo0         43.9        44.0 
Change i a~iculIrAl ad                annual %               0.3         0.4          0.0         0.0          0.1        .0.3
AgUiculrural land under tipgaion              %                   0.0         0.0          0.0         5.5         s.3         13.3
Forins and woodland                       thou. sq, km           200         200          200        6,651       7.705       9.081
Deforesuition (net)                        annual %               0.0         0.0         0.0
INCOME
Household income
Shame offtp 20%/ of households           % Of income             68            .           .
Share ofboutom 40%/ of bouseholds             -9                              ..2
Shar of bottom 20%?1 of households                                3            ..5
EXPENDITURE
Food                                       % of GDP                .            .        20.8            .           .9.5
staples                                                           ,            .9.6
MeaL fish, milk. cheese. egp                                       ..                    6.3
Cereal imports                         thou. metric tomest         8          63           57        7,838s     35.976       67,797
Food aid in cereals                                                 .1.                              2.677i        366
Foodprodurction per capir.a              1979-81'-100            101         100           85          94          108         100
Fertilizer consumption                       kV-h                  -.         1.0         4.0         14.5       120.0        250.7
Share ofagriculture in GDP                 % of GDP              26.3         6.4         8.7         29.2.        8.9          2.5
Housing                                    %Of GDP                 .            .1.3-
Aven5e household size                 persons per household        .            ..
Urban
Fixed investmntm: housing                  % Of GDP                 .           .2.1
Fuel and powecr                            % otGDP                  ...0.3
Energcnumption per capita                kg of oil equiv.        153        1,005       1.158         100        IM70         5,122
Households with electuicitv
Urba                                   % of households            .            ..
Rural
Traasport and conuunledatiola              % OfGDP                 .            .2.3
fixed investmlent: transport equipmant                              ..                    4.2
Total road length                          thou. kmin...
INVESTMENT IN HUNLAN CAPrrAL
Health
Aecess t0 health car                       %of pop.                .            ..
FPopulation per physarciar                  Paso=                 -..                   2.397
Population per nurse                                             762                      80          .2                        4
Popultion per hospr.iW bad                                                                Sa13214
Acseasto safe water                        % of pop.               ...                      .         36.7
Urban-.                                                                        ..                    74.3
Rural                                                              ...24.2
Oral rehydyrstion therpy (under 5)        %Of cae                   ..                      035
Education
Gross euiolltni ratio
Secondary                             %of school-age pop.        I11          17                        is18.                   92
Female                                        -                              12            ..14                     ..94
Nupileaher ratio: prutla                puspils per teacher       39          48           46          39            ..19
Pupil.teachar ratio: sc   *ar                                     19          24           22            .
Pupils eadhing grde 4                     %ofcobort                ..49                    79          69            *.96
RApeatwrrate: printary                  %Oftotalcoauol.                       34           31 
Uhizesay                              % ofpop. (agsI$+)            ...                     39           Si
Fanale                               % Offthai(Sp I +)             .           .52                     62
Newspap  Cicuircalioti                   per thou, po              -            ..is                     S                     335
Sourc: World Bank bzrumatioaal Eooaaumice DeprnR p, Apr4~il IM



Annex m
Page I of 1
Gabon: Key Exposure Indicators, 1990-1997
Actual                  Estim.           Projected
1990      1991      0992      1993       1994      1995       1996      1997
Total Debt Outsttading and             3162.4    3332.1    3434.2    3404.5    3385.8    3434.5    3345.8    3238.0
Disbursed (TDO) (US$m) /a
Net Disbursenents                      -187.7    -149.6    -235.4    -172.1      227.9       28.8     -44.2     -73.6
Total Debt Sence(TDS)                   549.5     559.0      615.1     534.5     543.0      591.9     567.6     515.6
(US$m) /a
Total Debt Senoe after                  253.8     541.3      592.4     534.5     455.9      486.7     533.7     483.7
rescheduling/cancellation (TDSR)
Debt and Debt Sevice Indicators
TDO/XGS/b                           114.63%   129.17%   129.41%   137.97/o  154.93%   142.44%   135.98%   129.25%
TDO/GDP                              57.96%    61.43%    60.54%    63.06%    97.50%    89.53%    83.07/o   77.07%
TDSIXGS /b                           19.92%    21.67%    23.18%    21.66%    24.85%    24.55%    23.07%    20.58%
ConcessionalflT)O                    13.60%    15.40%    14.90%    14.50%           ..
TIDSR/XGNS                            9.27%/   21.21%    22.73%    21.88%    20.99%    20.30%    21.81%    19.400/0
IBRD Exposur Indicators (%)
IBRD DS/Public DS                      1.02%     1.09%     1.76%     2.46%0o
Prefened Creditor DS/Public DS        5.95%      6.74%h    6.49%     7.67%Yo
IBRD DSrXGS/b                         0.20%      0.24%/o    0.41%    0.53%
IBRD Porolio Share                    2.19%      2.42%     2.37%     2.41%
IFCfUS$m)
Loans                                   91.4      73.1       66.2      49.5
Bquity and Quasi-Equity                   ..        ..         ..        ..
M_KA
MGA guarntees (US$ thousands)              ..       ..         ..        ..
a. ncludes public and publicly guarnmteed debt, pnvate  _    debt, use of 1MF credits, and net short-tem capital.
b. XGS- denotes exports of goods and services, mceluding workees remitances.



Annex IV
Page I of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GABON
Summary Statement of Loans and IDA Credits
~ -   ~  -~~-~--~- -    -    ~~-   ~~--        AmountiaUS$ aWin.
less camcellation)
Loan or          Fiscal  Borrower   Purpose                Bank          IDA    Undis-  Closing Date
Credit No.-      Year                                                           bursed
Loar,s
71Loans closed                                                  117 00r
L30460-GAB    1989   GABON         Road MaEirtainance           30.00            2.30  12131194 (R)
L31140-GAB    1990   GABON         Tech. Assistance              5.00            0.23  12131/93 (R)
L35060-GAB    1993   GABON         Forestry/Environment        22.50            21.70  06130198
Total                                                            57.50           24.23
Total                      174.50
of which repaid             72.28
TOTAL held by Bank
& IDA                    102.52
Amount sold                 29.24
of which repaid             29.24
TOTAL undisbursed                           24.23
List of Closed SALs and Secals
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
Loan or          Fiscal  Borrower   Purpose                 Bank         IDA    Undis-  Closing
Credit No.       Year                                                            bursed   Date
=29330-GAB       1988   GABON        SAL 1                  50.00                   0     0630/90 
a  Total approved, repaynents, and outstanding balance represent both active and nactive loans and credits.
(R) indicates foxmally revised Closing Date.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical values, all others are market values.
The signing, effective, and closing dates are based on the Loan Departnent official data and are not taken from the Task
Budget file.



Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GABON
Summary of IFC Investments
Otiginal Gross Commitmnents
US$ million
Fiscal Year              Obligor               Type of Business               Loan              Equity    Total
1988                   SPE                  Okoume Veneer                 -4.2                  -       4.21.
1988                  Coniilog              mining                         32.0                         32.02
1989                Shell Gabon             Petroleum                     160.0                 -      160.03
1989                 Elf Gabon              Petroleum                      10.0                 -       10.0
1991                 Comilog II             Mining                         9.0                  -        9.0
Total gross comnutments                                         215.2                 -       215.2
Less repayments and carcellations                               178.1                 -      178.14
Net comntitments held by IFC                                     37.1                 -       37.1
t Fulycancelled.
2 USS5 minionmaeled
3 Indudes a USSI 10 nmllion pa1icijin
4 Inudesthe sae ofUSS11 wiion paricipatjor,



Annex V
GABONESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time taken to-prepare program:             Three months
2.    Initial discussion with IBRD:              January 20 - February 3, 1994
3.    Appraisal mission:                         March 21 - April 8, 1994
4.    Negotiations:                              April 25 - 26, 1994
5.    Board presentation:                        June 21, 1994
6.    Planned date of effectiveness:             June 30, 1994
7.    Expected closing date:                     June 30, 1995
This program was appraised by a team comprising Messrs./Ms.: Callier (AFICO, Country Econoniist
for Gabon); Marcotte (AFICO, Country Officer for Gabon); Alberto Herrou-Aragon (AFICO, Trade
Economist); Demba Ba (AFILE, Operations Officer); Roger Mendels (Consultant); and Roger
Christen (Consultant).
Mr. Olivier Lafourcade is the Department Director and Mr. Luis Ernesto Derbez, the managing
Division Chief.
Mrs. Jennifer Manghinang assisted in the production of this report.



A-nex VI
Page 1 of 16
Statement of D)evelopment Policy
Cover Letter (Traiislation from the Fr--chl
(iAB3ONSE  EPUBLIC
Ministry of the Econiomy, Planification.
Rehabilitation of the Parapublic Sector
and Privatization
The Minister of the Economy, Planification,
Rehabilitation of the Parapublic Sector and
Privatization
To: Mr. Lewis T. Preston
eresident, The World Bank
Libreville, April 26, 1994
Ref: Economic Recovery Loan
Mister President,
Please find attached the Statement of Development Policy contfining the economic
strategy that the Government intends to implement to accompany the dvaluation of the CFA
Franc and launch the Gabonese economy on the path of sustaining growth and diversification.
This strategy applies structural and sectoral measures and emphasizes, inter alia, the
elimination of obstacles to private sector development through the full liberalization of
international trade, the strengthening of competition and the reduction of the cost of production
factors.
It complements the macro-economic stabilization program associated with the recently
concluded IMF Standby agreement.
The Statement of Development Policy, drafted with the assistance of Bank staff, will
form the technical underpinning of the Economic Recovery Loan which we have requested
from the World Bank.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the fnancial and technical
support which your institution is providing to the Gabonese Republic, and I am,
Yours sincerely,
(s) Andr&Dieudonn6 Berre



Annex VI
Page 2 of 16
GABOQN
fAEMT OF DEVELOPMENlT POLICY
1.    Gabon's first World Bank-supported structural adjustment program was drawn up in 1988, in
the midst of the f-nancial crisis resulting from the oil "counter-shock" of 1986. Despite the drop in
petroleum production from 1976 on, budget receipts had continued to increase in the years followirg
the oil "shock" of 1973, partly because of rising oil prices and partly because of the appreciation of the
dollar.
2.    The crisis unleashed in 1986 revealed the vulnerability of the Gabonese economy, in particular,
the vulnerability of public finances which are dominated by a volatile petroleum sector. However, the
discovery of the Rabi oilfield in 1989 and the prospect of increased petroleum production which this
opened up seemed to ensure that overall internal and external equilibria could be reestablished. In the
event, fiscal receipts for 1990/93 were less than half what they were in 1980/86 despite the fact that
petroleum production almost doubled.
3.    Resource constraints which were considered a crisis state of affairs in 1986 must henceforth be
considered the norm for Gabon's economy.
4.    Public expenditure and investment in the twelve years of wealth and sustained revenue growth
have resulted in the State having a leading role in the economy. From 1980 to 1986, the public
investmene program grew from the equivalent of 10 percent of GDP to 25 percent. Transportation
networks, including the railroad, were established and large agro-industrial projects (oil palm, rubber,
coffee-cocoa and livestock) undertaken to diversify the economy. These projects, some of which are
not yet fully operational (rubber, livestock), did not yield all the expected results, in part because of
the collapse of world prices for these commodities. Moreover, overheating of the economy due to
large civi! works and construction projects led to a significant rise in internal costs and eroded the
competitiveness of the Lconomy with respect. to the rest of the world.
5.    The depletion of the resources available for government spending brought on a contraction of
demand and of revenue. The level of economic activity as measured by the current GDP fell by 40
percent between 1986 and 1988, causing the loss of half of all jobs in the modern private sector. The
growth experienced since 1989 is due mainly to the upturn in petroleum production. Despite efforts at
rationalization, public expenses have not decreased at the same rate as resources. The result is an
accumulation of arrears on Gabon's debt which can no longer be serviced on the terms of the original
agreements.
6.    No alternative to government expenditures having emerged to sustain aggregate demand,
unemployment is now at 18 percent among heads of urban households of Gabonese nationality. Deficit
accumulation, including in the Public Enterprise sector, has led to internal arrears which, in turn,
firther weaken the nation's productive apparatus. These arrears were estimated at FCFA 250 billion at



Annex VI
Page 3 of 16
end-1993.
7.    In tandem with these economic developments, Gabon, in common with other countries in
Africa, has undergone political changes. The new social setting into which these economic troubles
are transplanted has disrupted recove  -fforts under IMF- and World Bank-supported programs. The
public sector salary adjustments negotiated in 1989, for instance, were progressively whittled away in
1990 under popular pressure and plans for the restructuring of the public sector have either not been
fully carried out or not put into effect at all.
8.    In the face of these realities and developments, the Government has decided on a new strategy.
It is based on retrenchment of State activities in favor of the private sector, on reorienting the State's
activity toward its core functions and on the attempt to identity an alternative to public expenditure as
the motor of the economy. This strategy is predicated on a return to economic competitiveness.
9.    On January 12, 1994, the member countries of the franc zone devalued the CFA franc. In
itself, the devaluation is not sufficient to guarantee improved competitivity - other, accompanying
measures will be needed for that -- nevertheless, it does provide an opporuity for far-reaching trade
reforms that will make more efficient rescurce allocation possible. The State has therefore decided to
embark on a new program covering macroeconomic accompanying measures and structural and
sectoral reforms.
MACROECONOMIC POLICY
10.   BudgetaryPoicy. The Government's strategy is laid out in the Declaration of Economic
Policy for the SDR 38.6 million 12-month Standby arrangement reached with the IMF in March 1994.
It aims to reestablish the conditions for balanced growth through realization of the potential
competitvity gains of the devaluation and through efficient use of oil, minir and forest revenues. A
substaatial part of these revenues will be saved and reinvested. On the financial front, the Government
intends to stabilize its debt ratio by 1995 through primary budget surpluses sufficient to cover its
interest payments. Annual non-oil GDP real growth of the order of 3.5 percent, equivalent to per
capita income growth of about one percent, is projected over the medium tenn under the IMF program
assumptions.
11.   In the short term, however, the devaluation and associated measures will translate into an
estimated increase of about one third in consumer prices in 1994 and a slight lowering of non-oil GDP
stemming from a contraction in consumer demand. A policy of austerity with respect to public
expenditures limiting their overall rise to 16 percent of current expenditure, excluding interest, is
expected to increase the primary budget surplus from 0.7 percent of non-oil GDP in 1993 to 4.1
percent in 1994 and to 14 percent starting in 1995. Nevertheless, the projected overall 1994 budget
balance shows a significant increase in the deficit. Ibis is because of: (i) the increase in national
currency terms of interest charges on the external debt; (ii) the time lag between the nominal value
increases in the tax base and the collection of certain taxes; and (iii) the increase in public investment
expenditures which are expected to grow by 80 percent in 1994.



Annex VI
Page 4 of 16
12.   Monetary Policy. The chief objective of Gabon's monetary and credit policies is to maintain
the new parity of the CFA franc with the French franc. Consequently, monetary programming is
aimed at gradual strengthening of the banking system's external position without undue compression of
credit to the economy. The normative increase in credits, 24 percent in 1994, will be maintained
through credit ceilings until such time as the BEAC zone money market is reformed and indirect
controls are established. BEAC raised its central rate (taux directeur) from 11.5 per cent to 14 per
cent on January 14, 1994.
13.   Controlling Inflation. The prudent macroeconomic policies described above will be the main
tool- to control inflation. This control will be reinforced by the use of struetural measures such as the
reduction of customs duties on imports, a review of fuel taxation, the liberalization of the external
trade regime and the overall strengthening of competition and reduction of the costs of public services.
These measures are described below. A price freeze was introduced immediately after the devaluation.
This was lifted after a short time and was replaced by controls on margins. These will also be lifted
before the end of the current year.
THE PROGRAM OF STRUCTURAL REFORM
14.   The Government reiterates its commitment to free market economic principles and intends to
redefine its role, moving towards one which is that of a public authority which intervenes through
incentive and regulation mechanisms. In p,ursuit of this objective, the Government has introduced a
program of reforn. which is set out in the following paragraphs.
15.   Fostering Competition. The proper functioning of the market and the response of economic
actors to incentives require that there be genuine competition. The conditions in Gabon are not
particularly favorable to such competition, first because the market size is so small but also because of
the dominant position of powerful foreign business groups.  A law on competition was adopted in
1989 to combat non-competitive practices. The decrees applying this law will be finalized in 1994 to
make the legislation effective.
16.   Reform  of the External Trade Regime.  The Government has undertaken to pursue
liberalization s.f the external trade regime and to eliminate or significantly reduce any remaining
distortions in trading. The objective of this reform is to shift productive resources from protected
sectors to those sectors which produce goods and services for export. The Government's reforms
include the following:
a)    Starting on February 1st, 1994, the Government began to apply a customs tariff on imports
comprising four rates (5 percent for basic necessities, 10 percent for raw materials and
equipment, 20 percent for intermediate goods and others and 30 percent for consumer goods)
in line with the four categories defined in Act No. 7/93 UDEAC 566 SE1 of June 21, 1993.
The nominal decrease in duties and the decrease in the rates dispersion reduce the protectionary
effect of the tariff. The revised Budget Law for 1994 will confirm this measure.
b)    The Government has eliminated customs exemptions under the Investrnent Code (Law No. 7/89



Annex VI
Page 5 of 16
of July 6, 1989) as well as those granted under particular dispensations, notably Law 1/81 of
June 8, 1981, modified by Law 11/84 of July 2, 1984, relating to small and medium scale
enterprises. The revised Budget Law for 1994 will confirm this measure.
c)    The Covernment will eliminate customs duties on exports with the exception of duties on wood
and minirg products. The revised Budget Law for 1994 will include this measure,
d)    The Goverunent will eliminate the last remainmig quantitative restrictions on imports of
products and merchandise. Decree 540 of May 24,1989- will be modified to abolish the
prohibitions and restrictions on imports of the following:
- vegetable oils (customs item: 15.07)
- sugar (customs item: 17.01) (in January 1995)
- water (customs item: 22.01)
- cement (customs item: 25.23)
- soap (customs item: 34.01.01)
Decree 766 of June 1, 1983 regulating the External Commerce of the Gabonese Republic which
requires that a license be obtained from the Director of External Commerce to carry out import or
export activity will be abolished.
e)    Prices and profit margins in these six products will be liberalized and Decree 541 of May 24,
1989 will be modified to X emove vegetable oil, sugar (from January 1995), water, cement and
soap from the list of prodi cts subject to profit margin control.
f)    The freeze on profit margins established by Decree 168 of January 31, 1994 will be lifted
before the end of the current year.
g)    Over the longer term, the Government intends to deepen reform of the trade regime and will
study the pcssibility of establishing, in concert with the other UDEAC member states, a single,
low protection rate for all imports; and the establishment of mechanisms which would allow
exporters to avoid the sJrcharge resulting from customs duty levied on imports of inputs.
17.   Energy Price Reform.  The Government undertakes to modify the price structures for
petroleum products and electricity to reflect the real economic cost of these inputs. Specifically, the
Government will take the following measures:
a)    The Government will either liberalize imports of refined petroleum products or will adjust ex-
refinery fuel prices in line with their import parity price.
b)    At the same time, the Government will adjust taxes on fuel for the domestic market so as to
stabilize these prices temporarily at their January 11, 1994 levels except for those products
(other than kerosene) for which such stabilization would require a subsidy. In those cases, the
price will be allowed to tise by however much is necessary to match the new ex-refinery prices
but it will not be subject to the internal consumption tax. This new price structure will remain



Annex VI
Page 6 of 16
in effect until the value added tax (VAT) takes effect;
c)     A formula indexing petroleums products to their import parity price will be agreed to be used in
revising ex-refinery prices. The first revision will take place no later than expected date when
the VAT will take effect, March 1995.
d)    When the VAIT does take effect, the Government will adopt new petroleum products tax system
to simplify the price structure in line with recommendations of the report "Gabon:
Strengthening Tax Administration and Introduction of VAT" of December 1993 which was
prepared by the IMF technical assistance mission of October 1993.
e)     The Government will apply the new tariff structure for electricity agreed under the public
services concession agreement of August 10, 1993 with the exception of the quarterly
indexation formulae. It is not the purpose of the new tariff structure to increase SEEG's
revenue for the same production but rather to establish a tariff structure based on long term
marginal cost considerations of the various networks. The indexing formula wIll not take
effect until a full study of electricity pricing, including opportunities for production and
distribution costs reduction, has been carried out. This study should be carried out by
consultants independent of the concessionaire or his managing agent.
18.   Minimizing the Impact of Devaluation on the Social Sectors. The budgetary austerity which
the macroeconomic and financial framework set up in the wake of the devaluation makes imperative
will entail the making of choices and the setting of priorities for allocation of budget resources. In line
with the new strategy of reorienting State activity to essential core functions, the Goverunent intends
to continue redirecting its budget resources to the social sectors.  In the immediate future, the
Govermnent intends to protect the purchasing power of allocations to the health and national education
sectors from the effect of price ir'creases induced by the devaluation.  Allocations for National
Education and Public Health in the Investment Budget will accordingly be increased in line with higher
prices. Financing of these sectors from own funds will increases from the CFAF 5.44 billion included
in the original 1994 Budget Law to CFAF 6.89 billion in the revised Budget Law (this includes CFAF
1.5 billion earmarked for education and health within the "charges communes" budget allocation).
This adjustment represents a 27 percent increase in nominal terms, as against a four percent increase in
own funds financing in the overall investment budget). External financing included in the investment
budget for these sectors will increase by 119 percent to reach a total of CFAF 14.4 billion.
19.   Current budget allocations included in the revised 1994 Budget Law, with the exception of the
payroll, will amount to CFAF 8.24 billion in the case of Public Health and Population ( an increase of
39 percent over the original Budget Law) and to CFAF 5.524 billion in the case of National Education
(again an increase of 39 percent over the original Budget Law).
20.   Tax Reform.  The Government has begun preparation of fundamental reform of indirect
internal taxation to make the tax regime more neutral through the elimination of cascading indirect
taxes as well as the elimination of the additional cost for exporters resulting from domestic taxes. A
value added tax system will be introduced under the revised Budget Law for 1994. This VAT will
replace all other domestic indirect taxes (with the exception of certain excise duties). The new system



Annex M
Page 7 of 16
will take effect on March 1, 1995.
21.   Labor Policy. The mobility of labor is an essential element of any adjustment policy which
aims at the transfer of factors of production from formerly protected sectors to new activities. The
Govermnent therefore wishes the Labor Code to be revised in concert with the trade unions and
employers so as to remove obstacles to the fluidity of the market while at the same time protecting
workers' fundamental interests.
22.   The Office National de I'Emploi and the Fonds d'Insertion ou de R6insertion, with the
administration, employers and workers equally represented in their management, have been set up to
encourage mobility of labor. They began operating at the beginning of 1994. Their principal goals are
to:
create an employment observatory to monitor labor supply and demand and ensure the
widest possible dissemination of information on employment opportunities;
register those seeking work who so desire and give them guidance in line with their
skills and market needs through recommending viable options (information on demand,
further training, retraining, establishment of small enterprises); and
make needed financing available through the Fonds d'Insertion ou de Reinsertion.
23.   Wages policy is a key element in the adjustment of the economy and the lowering of the real
wage level is likewise a determining factor in the attempt to lower production factor costs. The wage
bill is the key variable, rather than the level of nominal wages, because in many sectors subsidiary
allowances account for very considerable sums. In most businesses, the cost of advisers and other
professional support (expatriates and nationals) is a burden on production costs (20 percent of staff
account for 60 percent of the wage bill). The State is the largest employer, accounting for 70 percent
of salaried employment (public and parapublic sectors). With such a large share of the market, the
public payroll is a determining element. The Government will, accordingly, limit the increase in the
public and parapublic wage bill to 10 percent in 1994 and this, in tum, :11 influence overall wage
movements in the labor market.
24.   Facilitation and Business Law. The multiplicity of government services, at times at odds with
each other, which are involved in contacts between the administration and the private sector and
cumbersome  bureaucratic procedures with their associated costs are all seen as obstacles to
development of private enterprise.
25.   A support agency for small and medium scale enterprises and industries, FODEX, was created
in 1993. FODEX's objective is to support SMEs and SMIs through making appropriate funding and
guarantees for SMEs and SMIs available to banks and, on the other, to support potential promoters in
the design and initial management stages.  In this context, several obstacles were identified and
measures to correct them are now being worked out: they relate to the simplification and reduction of
the cost of certification and other administrative procedures, to the establishment of accredited
management centers and to the training of entrepreneurs.



Annex VI
Page 8 of 16
26.   The observance of existing regulations and application of judicial decisions are important
elements of a favorable business enviroaxnent. The harmonization of business law within the Franc
Zone will have an impact not only on regional trade relations but will also make commercial legislation
more uniform and up-to-date.
ECTORAL POLIC
27.   The other side of the program in support of economic adjustment in Gabon is the development,
of production output. The State has undertaken to cease its intervention in directly productive
activities where,_ in the past, it has substituted for the private sector and wIll progressively disengage
from the management of existing enterprises. The State's role will henceforth focus on the drawing up
of sectoral strategies and the establishment of support and incentive mechanisms in pursuit of national
objectives.
28.   Public Enterprises Restructuring. This is a key element of the sectoral strategies now being
worked out. Under the liberalization measures described above, enterprises will lose the protection
they have hitherto had and will be exposed to competition from imports. They will have to adjust their
ways of operating to become more competitive. Temporary, progressively decreasing protection
measures may be taken as the public enterprises restructuring plans are put into effect: these could be
in the form of financial support or of a surtax on imports. In those cases where the public enterprise is
not thought likely to be viable in any circumstances, the company's operations will be halted and
alternative programs launched with a view to recovering part or all of the investments made in the
company and finding alternative employment for its employees.
Service enterprises (non-tradables), in particular those in the energy and transport sectors, will also be
restructured with special attention being given to their management, operations and investment so as to
minimize the cost of their services to the rest of the economy, rendering it more competitive.
Action to be taken in the parapublic sector will be supported by specific sectoral policies and/or will be
the subject of more general measures (institutional framework, financial restructuring).
The productive sectors
29.   The devaluation and the economic policy measures above described create a new environment
for the productive sectors, one which presents highly contrasting aspects: favorable to exporters, rich
in new import-substitution opportunities, but trying to those activities which were formerly protected.
30.   Agriculture. Gabon's agriculture, both export crops and subsistence, is characterized by two
productive systems: large agro-industrial enterprises in which the State holds the majority of the
shares, and smallholders, both traditional and modern. The strategy now being devised is addressed to
both of these subsectors.
31.   The initially positive prospects for the competitiveness of agro-industrial enterprises
deteriorated through time because of the unfavorable evolution of prices on world markets and because



Annex VI
Page 9 of 16
of the rigidities inherent in the nature of the production of some of these enterprises. The analysis of
this sector before the devaluation shows a pattern of deficits in the export subsector and excess costs to
the consumer in the subsector producing for the domestic market. New conditions have now been
created. For some enterprises, new possibilities of profit are opened up, either because their receipts
will go up in CFA terms, or because the price of competing imports will go up. For others, exposed
for the first time to external competition through the lifting of quantitative import restrictions, it will
be impossible to establish the conditions for profitability.
32.   Rural Development. Agriculture should benefit from the price changes brought on by the
devaluation. Higher exports prices should be channeled towards the producers ditectly and, indeed,
the producer prices of coffee and cacao will be increased by at least 35 percent during the present
season. Food production (livestock and crops) should also be among the first areas to benefit from the
changed international prices. Demand from the urban population (70 percent of total) already exceeds
local production and will provide further markets for local traditional products as a result of the higher
prices of imported foodstuffs.
A program of action, involving all stages from production to delivery to the consumer has been drawn
up to enable the rural sector to respond to the changes patterns of demand:
continuation of rural roads development and maintenance programs (easier product evacuation,
lower wastage en route);
establishment of intermediate commercial facilities in production zones (storage, local
collection circuits, links with wholesalers in Libreville);
-      improved marketing in Libreville (wastage from poor storage and marketing is estimated at 20
percent); and
-     extension support for smallholder commercial polyculture, protection of the environment,
improvement of rural infrastructure and marketing of agricultural inputs.
A study to articulate an agriculture and forestry development strategy is being carried out. This may
pave the way for a sectoral project focussing on smallholder support and the restructuring of
agricultural public enterprises, including the stabilization and equalization funds for cocoa and coffee.
33. The Forestry Subsector. The forestry subsector, which has historically concentrated on
exports of raw lumber, has fluctated with the market. With the devaluation and the new margin for
manoeuvre on prices that will create marketing opportunities for new species that previously could not
be profitably exported, the forestry subsector should be better able to respond to fluctuations in
demand. he -restructuring of SNBG has allowed the finances of the whole subsector to be
rehabilitated. The exports tax system for forestry products is currently being simplified. On this new
basis, long term forestry sector policy will be oriented along two main lines: first, forest management
wUi emphasize the preservation and development of forest resources and second, development of
industrial processing of forest products for export will be pursued.



Annex VI
Page 10 of 16
While the opportunities for profitable operations have been enhanced with the devaluation, a significant
effort is needed in the area of productivity: more diverse species should be harvested; work is needed
to allow thicker stands of marketable species to be developed; and industrial equipment and technology
need to be updated.
34.    The development of the forestry subsector depends on two factors: the establishment of an
environmental policy which, given Gabon's rich biodiversity, might lead to the development of
scientific activities, and the resolution of Transgabonais' management problems which are currently
causing a bottleneck in the marketing of forest production.
35.   The Government's strategy considers the agriculture and forestry sectors not simply as offering
prime opportunities for the long term diversification of the Gabonese economy but also as important
factors in the effort to strike a balance between the rural and urban sectors.
36.   Small and Medium Scale Industries.  The State's policy in this domain, primarily one of
import substitution, is to facilitate the establishment and expansion of the firms through the
institutional measures already described above under structural reform.
37.   Basic Infrastructure_ and Transort. Rationalization of transport activities plays an essential
part in the effort to reduce the cost of factors of production and, hence, to increase production output.
A coordinating unit will be established within the Ministry of the Economy to coordinate and monitor
programs in these sectors.
38.   Infrastructure policy is aimed at maintaining existing investments, in particular existing roads
networks. A road paving and improvement program was started in 1993. Work is being carried out
along the North-South axis and future works will be based on study findings within the framework of a
future road transport sector project.
39.   The Government's program aims to improve service and bring down costs in the transport
services sector.  With the exceptions of road transport, these services are characterized by the
predominance of public enterprises and by the existence of monopolies in maritime transport. A
subsector program of institutional measures is now being drawn up to improve the performance of
these public enterprises by making their management more responsive to the general policies described
above on the parapublic sector and the development of competition. One of the principal benefits
expected from the program is a significant reduction in the burden on public finances of the subsidies
paid to certain operations.
40.   The Energy Sector. Energy policy aims to reduce the cost of services to the enterprises and
other consumers. Specific measures have been taken under the current program. The price of fuel ex-
refinery will be set in light of international fuel prices so as to reflect real costs and to create pressure
for increased performance from the refinery. In the medium term, it is expected that the price
structure for fuel up to the point of retail distribution will be revised at the same time as the tax system
is modified.
41.   With respect to electricity, the institutional reform of SEEG has allowed the setting up of



Annex VI
Page 11 of 16
private-style management system  operating through a concession.  As part of the concession
agreement, new tariffs to spread the cost of SEEG's services more equitably between its customers
were drawn up; they will take effect in 1994. Studies of the possibilities for cost reduction over the
long term will be carried out.
42.   The Social Sectors. It is clear that any growth policy based on private initiative will have to
address questions of human resources development. For several years now, the public investment
program, with assistance from the major donors, have been redirected toward the social sectors.
Productive interplay between responsibilities and initiatives of the various ministerial departments
requires that policies and programs be better coordinated. A unit to handle these responsibilities will
be set up within the Ministry of Economy and Planning. Budget allocations for the social sectors will
be kept constant in real terms, despite the increase in operation and investment costs following the
devaluation.
43.   Education and Trainin . More than 60 percent of all Gabonese are under the age of 16; the
importance of an adequate national education and training system can therefore hardly be overstated.
In recent years, government action has focussed on reducing the shortage of primary level
schoolrooms. From now on, the emphasis will be on education management, in particular with regard
to laying out the geographical distribution of educational facilities (the carte scolaire) and teacher
training. Many young graduates have difficulty finding work: this is not only because of the ongoing
recession which began in 1986 but also because the qualifications of the employment seekers do not
correspond to what the prospective employers are looking for. Paradoxically, companies are obliged
to recruit expatriate expertise while passing over national graduates. Secondary and tertiary education
reforms will therefore emphasize a relative increase in the sorts of technical and vocational training
that meet ie real needs of the economy.
44.     ne reform of the education system will bring different systems which were previously
independent of each other into close play: national education (secondary general and technical
education), public professional training, private institutions and training centers of large companies.
Coordination between these companies and the State will be tightened. Initiatives in this direction have
already been taken, for instance between the large petroleum companies and the University.
45.   Health and Solidarity. The overall Gabonese health system has the following components:
-     the public health sector (preventive and curative medicine);
-     the parapublic CNSS, primarily intended for formal sector wage earners;
-     works of charity (the Schweitzer Hospital and confessional health facilities); and
-     the private sector (liberal medicine and company health centers).
The operation of this system is wasteful and inequitable in several ways, which vary as a function of
the financial means of the populations and/or sectors concerned and of location. Realizing this, the
Government in 1992 began to consider options and alternatives for harmonizing the entire system
based on complementarity of the various services and the development of some social security
mechanism to guarantee equal access to equal services for the entire population.



Page 12 of 16
46.   At the same tine, changes in the management of the public health system are now being
worked out. Tey are based on the principles of decentralization and independent management for
each of the health units. Policy on drugs and medicines is a key element of the expected reforms. It is
based on two principles:
lower cost acquisition of medicines through a redefinition of the list of basic drugs and greater
use of generic drugs; and
*     cost recovery from patients and/or the social security mechanisms discussed above.
The restructuring of CNSS will be speeded up.
47.   Support for the Disadvantaged.  In the years of Gabon's prosperity, with family support
structres intact and functioning, the social role of the State was limited to specific groups such as
orphans or the handicapped. However, the appearance of unemployment and the drop in people's
income have changed the situation. The fact that 70 percent of all Gabonese live in urban centers
compounds the problem.
48.   Data on those who are disadvantaged are few. Surveys are planned to find out which groups
of the population are at risk and to provide input for a reference table of social indicators to be drawn
up. Specific actions will be taken in the light of the survey findings. At the present time, work to
improve living conditions in the less favored neighborhoods is progressing with finmcing from a
special French fund for the improvement of water supplies and the construction or rehabilitation of
sanitatin facilities. The labor-intensive urban pilot project at present under preparation can also be
expected to contribute to an improvement in living conditions and the lessening of unemployment.



An= IVI
Page 13 of 16
GABON: ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
________________MATRI  OF PROGRAM ACTIONS                                    _____________
AREA/MAIN OBJECTIVE                                  ACTION                                 TIMING                STATUS
Trade Polcy: reduce the bias    . Application of four customs tariff rates (5%, 10%, 20%, and    February 1, 1994    Done
agais expts and iease           30%) in line with UDEAC categories.                    __.____._.-_
compedtion._..
:                             .uPeti  To be confirmed in the revised Budget Law 1994    May/June 1994            CONDITION
. Elimination of customs exemptions under the Investment Code   Februy 1994           Done
or by virate of SME status or other special exemption
provisions.                                                      ._ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _
. To be confirmed in the revised Budget Law 1994          May/June 1994            CONDITION
. No new exemptions, under conventions or other agreements,    Permanent
to be granted, no renwal of exemptions under existing
convenDtios afer their expiry date.
. Renegotiate existing conventions to elimimte any exemptions    199411995
which depat from common law.
. Fix a ceiling of 0.5% of cif value on the FTID and on the rate  Revised Budget
for contributions to the Conseil Gabonais des Chargeurs and  Law 1994
the Centre Gabonais du Commerce Ext6rieur.             _    _._l
, Eliminate the levy on imports to finance the Conseil Gabonais  January 1, 1995
des Chargeurs and Centre Gabonais du Commerce Ext6rieur
contributions.
. Elimnate exit duty on exports except for wood and mineral  Revised Budget.       CONDITION
products.                                               Law 1994



Aex VI
Page 14 of 16
GABON: ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
MATRIX OF PROGRAM ACTIONS                                                        .
AREA/MAIN OBJECTVE                                  ACTION                                 TIMING                STATUS
. Simplify the tax and duties stucture on wood products for  Revised Budger
expo".                                                 Law 1994
Inrease the producer prices of coffee and cacao in the wake    May 1994
of the devaluation (35% for the current seasn).
Elimination of quantitaive restrictions on imports and of  June 1994             CONDITION
monopolies on vegetable oils, soap, bottled water, and
cement.
. Elimnation of restrictions on sugar imports.           January 1995
l  Revoke the system of import/export licenses (Decree 766 of    May/June 1994    CONDMON
__________ _ _ .___ _  6/1/83).                    _   .                  ,     ,;,    _
eompetten on the  . Decrees in application of the 1989 Law on Competition.   1994
, Elimation of margin controls (Deee 168 of 1/31/94)     1994
. Liberalization of the price of vegetable oils, soap, bottled  At the time       CONDITION
water, and cement (Amendme  of Decree 541 of 5/24/89).    qutitative
restrictions on
imports are lifted
.___._________________________________________________.  (lune 1994)    ..
. Liberalization of sugar prices (Amendment of Decree 541 of    At the time
5124/89).                                              q       yantitative
restrictions on sugar
imports are lifted
.____.____._________._____ ._______________________________ _.__   (January   1995)    v,



Am=e VI
Page 13 of 16
GABON: ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
MATRIX OF PROGRAM ACTIONS                  .___.
AREA/MAIN OBJECTIVE                                  ACTION                                  TIMING                STATUS
Fical Reform: make indirect     Application of the Value Added Tax which will replace all  March 1995 at the
taxation more neutral and       other indirect taxes with the exception of customs and excise   latest
reduce the surharges on         duties.
Reform of energy prices:
promote competitivity in the
economw by reducing fiscal
surcharges and taking account
of opportunity costs.
a) Fuel Prices                Set ex-refinery prices with reference to import parity prices.    May/June 1994    CONDITION
. Reduce taxation to keep pump prices constant if this can be  May/June 1994        CONDITION
done without subsidy (except household kerosene).                                      _
. Simplification of fuel price stuctures, indexing to import  March 1995 at the
parity prices and application of VAT to fuels.          latest
b) Electricity Prices          Application of new electricity tariff reflecting costs.  May/June 1994             CONDITION
. Full pricing study before any increases indexing tariffs to  December 1994
costs are made.
Labor Policy: promote           Consultations with employers and unions on possible revision    1995
flexibility of the labor market.  of the Labor Code.
. Start operations of the Office National de l'Emploi and the  1994                     Done
Fonds dln4sertion ou de Reinsertion (counseling and financing
bodies on which the administration, employers and workers
are equally represented).                                    , -_,-_,



Annex V
Page 16 of 16
GABON: ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
MATRIX OF PROGRAM ACTIONS
ARBA/MAIN OBJECTIVE                                   ACTION                                  TIMING                 STATUS
FadlHtatlou: promote the         Simplify approbation and other administrative procedures  1994
development of private          involved in establishment of an enterprise and reduce their
initiative                       cost.
Bdget allocations to the         Adjust budget allocations to National Education and Public  Revised Budget         CONDITION
sodal sectios: maintain          Health in light of cost increases resulting from the      Law 1994
resource levels necessay for     devaluation.
education and health



Aaneo VII
Gabon: Projecions, 1993-2005                                                                  Pnge iof 
R.oo    Souaio: WgIi Prod 0tvitY Of ImmUnent
M993      1994       3995       1997       199       2001       200}       2005
ICOR                                                     -830                  1           o68t  14.67  8.90-   6.0        4.00       S.00     --
Chauin  d Vevca0fO0 Expc9 $9∞                                        29       000%       0.00%      000%       0.00       0.00%     0.00%
InIuut Ratn onlroaLt                                        ..    7.42%       742%       7.2.       S.8%       S0S.       5180%     5ao.
OP!ie,NU=DBL)                                            1613       1376      1517       1611       3749       1824       1931      2.038
GOP StCouud P=                                           2-59% iscis           1.44%     2,8%       3.09W%     4.24%      435.      442V.
09ODPAtCuuratuPaso                                      525%       363%       003%       0.03%      000%      00% o00%              00 %,
N0.a0   VP 4it COaut nt P                                1.10%    -141%       2.4%       3.41%      483%      6.38%      626%       6.17Y,
GDP Dlaator                                              0.40.    36.91%      10.04%     335%       2.         3.04%      323%      3.I8%
ODPatCoOPtioea                            .              OOK%    3579%        11.63%     560%       5.98       7AI%      1.68%       1.74%
PavutCoauptionDe&o              -        .               5.74%    28.08%      59%        3.54%       33%       332%       321%      320%
EpozsotOoodsA Nm%0    FFctor_c:ai                        tA4%      87.63%    11576       3.14%      3.1%M    3.41%        3.79%     177%
(=wm CPJU:)
[npota of oods&       F                                  3.01%.    85.%       6.77%      3.49%      567%       6.97V       72%      7.25Y.
'cua CFAP)
9xpa38Volwl4                                           @09%        273%      0.44%      0.04%      06%        0.71%      0.76%.   O8Y.
Impa0t Volunis                                           1A.       .718%      329%       QA42Y      2.62%      394%       4.25%     4.22%
Tm.ofTfs&                                               -5.%        .t19%      7.46Y.    0.05%     453%       4.24%       0.09%      0.03%
Gnffl FD
talOW PCOe                                               3.98      44.5%     3038%        1.77%     3.s8%      459%       5.07%      513%
00 RvMu                                                   0M1     ol3%       43.75%      1389%      3.%        2.41%     2.86%      2.70Y
Tow Expavetm                                             7203%    45.02%       186%      -1.06%    01%        3.37%      503Y.      454%
C    tm E £L_aud                                       6470%      36402%      2.4f6     .1.41%     0.67%      210%       4M3%       3.39%
Cat  Eaerod                                             9.m%    81i2%         0.00%      0.00%      606%       TAI%      7.65%      1.72%
Dcamm   Crodit                                           3.21%     3.29%      9.8%       7.00%      17.07%     tl4%       849r%       23%
aC     n GowaC t ftOe(44                                3.92S%     I          9.95%      7.00%     -7.02%     8.14%      849%       0.23%
MonaQ)UMMY                                              -466%      19,46%     10.42A    13.96%    19.48%       7j1%       7.67       1.74%
OvyBudgeay BlcDeflc(t)                                  -182%      4213%      056%       232%       526%       521%       5.10%      477%
P=uy BCm 045%                                                       2SS%      8.61%       a8%       9.71%      533%       7.1%      6408%
Grow DooaaIieIWTbmt                                     21t0    2s6%         24A0       24A4    24M9%         256%       2621%      26.42%
P dlivib 3nvm1                                          17.3%     20.81%     19.0%      2009%      20.01%    20-7       213M%      21.44%
Gs   Domas   SaW                                        3492%      4523      45.%       4431%      42.73%     39.5%      363%       33.78.
Rowc Balm"                                              t33.3%         %     20.70%     19.6%      17.74%     1409%      10.62%     1.37%
BtiftTAICunOAvootw @                                    -.2%       -2.70%      I%        2.09%      247%       051%      -1.04%     -11233
fta*fFotop Debt                                         406%       97.A       V.53%     77.01%     71.%       635%       SE47%      54.85%
-m bMOlfCFAF                                             Q9752     2047.4    209.8       203t02    21215      21631      22483      2523.8
.nmEIUmolIS                                             34045      3308.      3434.5     32380      3386.7    34508      3X589      40252
Po       (UM CM04)                                         .01        1.04      I.06       1.12       1.17       1:3        1.29      135
Oth                                                     2.49%     2.49%      2.49%      2.49%      2.49%      2.49%     2.49%      2.49%
Ri3C _p6eCeapb                                            9018      188.       805.0      801.7      844.2      9039      971.S    1050.4
CM CFAFto%)
1owth                                                  424%      *12%        2.10%      05ts%      I.%       357%       3.75%      4.09K
of* eavoJdsan#ni% aew
231.%     25D.1%     24.69%     206%       22l16%     20.19%    17.14%      7.19%
AOmrd      * tt         _ _dwdoffqVawAdt                21t%      2.99%      203%       19.40%     2534%      25.44%    2433%      19.31%
G OW&tCwwmwwPdm                                          15465     2300.      242        263S4      2990.3    342t7       39648     4603.6
Q_(Qenmdl I ItS -0139.0    -72t                                                 -3Q0       .5.         0.0        0.0    C    0.0      0.0
Clagindh_amala                                            400       -0.0      -30.0      .30.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
amaiean._un~3as                                          t119.0   492.         0.0        0.0         .         00         .0        0.0



AnmsVU
Gabon: National Accounts, 1993-2005
Reform Scenario
(m bifloof CFAF)
1993       1994        1995        1997       1999        2001        2003        2005
Curent CFAF
GDP                                 1546.5S     2100.0      2344.2     2634.1      2990.3      3420.7      3964.S      4601.6
o/w Not Inreet Taxes                 124.4      163.2       184.9       2015       228.9       261.8       303.5       352.2
GDPfcitorotl                        1422.1      1936.S     2159.3      2432.6      2761.4     3158.8      3661.3      4249.4
AUicu*l=                             127.5       173.1      193.2       217.1       248.5       2S4.6      325.8       373.0
lanstry                              691.4      1139.9     1263.4      1362.7      1502.3      1612.8     1752.1      1902.2
on                                  460.2       826.0       913.0       969.0     1051.6      1096.7      1161.3      1225.8
Non-1                               178.1       241.8       269,9       303.3      347.3       397.6       455.2       521.2
Cawwtuqio                            53.1        72.1        80.4       90.4       103.5       .18.5       135.6       155.3
Saviocs                              727.7      787.0       887.6      1054.3      1239.4      1523.3     1886.9      2326.3
Rmo4urc Baleiw                       206.1       395.4       485.2       518.0      530.3       481.8       420.4       338.1
TOWbllports                          493.1       917.7      979.8      1045.4      1180.5      1343.1      1545.6     1779.1
TolEpatE                             699.8      1313.1     1465.0      1563.4      1710.8      1824.9     1966.0      2117,2
Domesic Absopion                    1340.4      1704.6      1859.0      2116.2     2460.1      293S.9      3544.4      4263.5
TdAMl COMMpt_                       1006.4      1150.1      1275.2      1461.8     1712.7      2064.6      2505.2      3047.9
Piblio ComVndon                     298.9       340.0       361.5       378.2      422.8       487.2       564.6       655.5
P&ivstCaiaptin                      707.5       810.1       913.7      1083.6     1289.8      1577.4      1940.6      2392.5
Todal hwsbna                         334.0       554.5       583.8       654.4      747.4       874.3      1039.2      1215.6
Psbliolavmti                         65.0       117.5       117.5       125.3      149.0       170.6       197.6       229.2
Privalolzutmbsn                     269.0       437?0       466.3       529.1      598.4       703.7       841.6       986.4
GrssDoastie savip                    540.1       949.8      1069.0      1172.3     1277.7      1356.1      1459.5      1553.7
1m8tant 19CFAF
GDPatmek"tprices                    1497.1      1484.9      1506.3      1564.7     1653.5      1785.2      194Z0       2116.8
NtlndircotTaeT                       120.4       115.4     11.         119.7       126.6       136.6       148.6      162.0
(MDP altbhwcost                     1376.7      1369.5      1387.5      1445.0     1526.9      1648.6      1793.4      1954.8
Agicu*n                              123.1       118.9      121.7       129.3       138.5       148.4       159.0      170.3
ldaby                                773.3       785.8      790.8       804.6       821.2       839.0      858.1       878.5
Oil                                 551.4       571.4       571.4       571.5      571.5       571.5       571.5       571.5
No I Set                            176.0       170.0       174.0       184.9      198.0       212.1       227.2       243.4
Coectio                              45.9        44.4        45.4        48.2       51.7        55.4        59.3        63.5
Svioes                               600.7       580.2      593.8       630.8       693.7       797.9      925.0      1068.0
Radoofc Balm                         275.1       342.8       329.6       334.2      312.2       285.0       248.5       208.5
Toald Imports                        518.7       481.4      497.2       498.7       531.0       570.1      619.5       673.3
Tatal Expors                         793.8       824.2      826.8       832.9       843.2      8S5.1        K67.9      881.7
DowoAbseAption                      1222.0      1142.1      1176.7      1230.6     1341.3      1500.3      1693.6      19083
Ta Commptia                          889.9 -     781.6       SZ0.4       862.5      948.6      1067.0      1209.9      1376.7
Pbibo Ccmpt                         242.9       251.2       247.6       247.5      261.6       282.4       307.2       334.9
Phi~vCcsmqfio                       6469        530.4       5728        614.9      687.0       784.5       902.6      1041.8
Tobl ba_smMI                         332.2       360.5       356.4      368.1       3927        433.3       483.7       531.6
Public Jwinuat                       646         76.4        71.7        70.5       78.3        84.5        920        100.2
Prjwal b.utn_                       267.S       284.1       284.6       297.6      314.4       348.8       391.8       431.4



Aniex VII
Page 3 of 8
Gabon: Fiscal Accounts, 1993-2005
Refonn Scenario
(n biPon5 of CFAF)
1993        1994         1995         1997        1999         2001         2003         2005
Revenues
TotalRevenue&Gmn!s                         3580        5192         6749         7338        7961         8645         9542        10543
Total Revenue                              3530        5092         6649         7238        7961         8645         9542        10543
OilteRenue                                 1680        272,0        391.0        421.8       457.8        4774         5055         5336
Non-Oil Rvenue                             185 0       237 2        273.9        302.0       338 4        387 i        '48 7        520 7
T2xRevenue                                175.0        2272        263.9        2910         3398         388.7        4505        5229
DfrecTaw  s                               46.1         556          71.0         78.0        96.7        110.6        12S1         1487
indirectTaxes                             1244        163.2        1849         201.5       228.9        261.8        3035         352.2
DoraosicTaxesonGoods & Scrv               541          60.0        67.0         74.0         846          97.7        1153        136.4
Taxes.InternationalTtadc                  70.3        1032         117.9       12W5         144.3        1641         188!        215.8
Tssonlrnpons                              63.8        882          92.9        1025         115.9       131.S        151.7        174.6
TaxesonExpoits                            65          150          25.0         25.0        28.4         32.3         36.4         412
Oher Taxes                                 4 5          7.4          8.0         11.5        14.2         16.3         18.9         219
NontaexReeue                               10.0         100          10.0        110          129          14.7         170         19.8
Grats                                        5.0        10.0         10.0         10.0         0.0          0.0          0 0          0.0
Expendilures
otal EenditLre                            448.0        649.7        661.7        672.6       638.9        690.1        7590         8460
CO flExpenditure                           3600        489.7        501.7        5026        489.9        519.5        561.4        6168
Corsuwption                               243.0        275.0       288.0        302.0        338.3        389 8       451.7        524 4
IVags&Salanes                            150.0        165.0        1780        190.0        213.1        245.6       284.6        330.3
Goodsandolher aeices                      93.0        110.0        1100        112.0        125.2        1442         167.1       194.0
Trstzs &Subsidies                          20.0         30.0        25.0         28.0         18.7         19.4        20.1         20.9
WeTrPapynenta                              97.0        1847         18S.7       172.6        133.0        1104         89.6         71.S
capital Expenditure                         8.0        160.0        160.0        170.0       149.0        1706         197.6        229.2
OeuslalaBaice,i3ficit()                    -90.0      .130.5         13.2         61.2       157.2        174.4        1952         208.3
P-ineayRBalae                               7.0         542         201.9        233.8       290.2        2848         2S4.8        279.8
Fancing                                    90.0        130.5        .13.1        .61.1      -157.2        -174.4      -195.2       -208.3
(exclui  reduction of arreas)
Fuancing                                   -69.0       852.6         16.9        -31 1       -157.2      -174.4       -195 2       -208.3
(including rduction of  s)
DomesticFiancing                           20.3        .60.0       .95.0        -35.0         43.4         60.7        42 5        -136.9
aCare in Arnesm (net)                     40.0        .30.0        *30.0       -30.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
FinangAbroad                               69.7        1905         81.9        .26.1       200.6        .235.1      -237.7        .71.4
DrawinponLoaom                            25.0        313.9        221.3        126.2        80.0         80.0         S0.0         80.0
Amortizationdue                           -74.3      -176.1       -203.7       -172.3       280.6        315.1        317.7        151.4
Debt Rcdulinginplaem                       0.0        674.3         42.9          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Debt Casrelation                           0.0         70.5         21.4         20.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Muite
Gapfi Loan                                  0.0        183.8        100.2         i1.2         0.0          0.0         Q00           0.0
BxzunalPublicDebt (SUSM mllions)          3359.1      3385.8       3434.5       3238.0      2857.5       2154.3       1392.8       1131.2
(in pawn ofGGM
EwXnl PUblicDebt                         62.22%       97.50%      89.53%       77.0r%       59.92%       39.49h      22.03%       15.41%
Total Remvn                               22.8%        24.2%       28.4%        275%         26.6%A       25.3%       24.1%        22.9ff
ORlPnue                                   109%        I.0%         16.7%        16.0%       153%         14.0%        12.7%        11.6%
cOlmEniure                                23.3%        23.3%       21.4%        19.1%        16.4%        15.2%A      14.2%        13.4%
ovmueliEaIae                              .-5.8%       .62%         06%          2.3%A        5.3%         5.1%        4.9%         4.5f



Annes Vj
*                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 
Gabon: Balance of Payments, 19934005
Rcform Scenario
(i billi  ofCFAF)
1993       1994        1995        1997        1999       .001        2003        200S
Current AAz_nt
E rs ofos,&N QN.FacorSvtcS      n          -    6998        13131       14650      15634       17108       1824.9      1966.0      21172
MerchandeExponsfob                              605.6      11202       12483       13303       14574       15479       16632      17862
dw OilSector                                  4929        8950        989.8      1051.0      11405       11895       12595      13295
ExpotofNon-FacuorServwes                         942        1928        2167        2331        2534        2770       302.S       3310
wOil SectoT                                                923        102.0       1083        1170        125.6       135.3      1453
InWmof(Goods&NNon-FatorSctvies                   493.7       9177       979.8      10454       1180 5      1343.1      15456       17791
Muv1antsseur4wu fo                              239.3       4409        4738        5041        5688       6430        7354        &399
ImptsofNOatorS rices                            254.4       476.8       506.0       5413       6118        7001        S103        9392
Reso=e Blace                                     206.1       3954       485.2       518.0       5303        4.1.8       4204        338 1
Factorin mme: Rceipa                               7.0         84         84          7.4        149         21.1        231         254
Other uvuoseni inncone                            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         7.0        12.8        14.2        16.0
Direct irtstmen. inome                            7.0         8.4        8.4         7 4         7.9         8.3         8 8         9.4
Faor Incme: Paymat                               2068       406.2       410.1       401 8       391.6       402.2       397.9       416 7
tntaetDue(incl. iMF)                             78.8       152.2      1t5.0       15i.0       140.8       151.3       147.1       1659
odwInterestonGapfill                             0.0         6.8       17.5        261         530         964        1384        IS0.5
Diructinv men tmincome                          128.0       2540       2.521       250 8       2508        2508        25.8        2508
Net Factor Income                               -199.8      -397.9     -401.7       .3944      -376.7      -381.0      -374 8      -391.3
Total Transfers: Receipts                         15.0        23.3       23.3        233         163         16.5        16.6        167
TotalTradTten: PayPnts                            Sl.0        77.5       83.5        91.8        96.8       1021        1077        1136
Net Tansfeas                                     .36.0       -542        .60.2      4685         -804        .85.6      -911        -96 9
NetPrivate Transfen                             .40.0       465.5       -71.5       -79.8       -96.2      -101.5      -1071       -1131
Net Public Tmntefs                                4.0        11.3        11.3        11.3        13.7        137         13.7       137
CwurntAccountBalanee                             .337        -679        12.1        43.8        59.4         1.5    .  *59.2      -163.8
(exe-idin offitial capital tansfs)
Caintal Actount
Diret Inesonet and Pvate Debt                      6.9         5.3        4 3         a I         0.0         0.0         0 0         0.0
NetFlowsonOl1i alDebt                            49.3        1378         17.6       46.1        39.8         8.2       7-.9        19-2
Disbursemnr                                     25.0       313.9       221.3       126.2       280.6       315.1       336.8      254.8
oaI t faill loans                               0.0       183.8      100.2        11 2       240.5       243 3       309.6       253.6
Amorzation                                      74.3       176.1       203.7       172.3       320.5      323.3       408.7       436.9
Shon-Tenm Capital                                .47.4      -12i5        -71.5       22.3         0.0         0.0         000 .0
CapitalAccountBalance                            .89.8        20.5      -496         .157        39.8         8.2        71.9       182.2
Overallbalance                                  .119.6       -36.1      -26.2        39.4       113.0        23.3        26.4        320
Funsnig                                          119.1        36.1       26.3       .39.4       -1130       -23.3       *26.4       -320
Cettal Bank                                       0.1       -16.6       -38.0       .59.4      .113.0       -23.3       -264        -32.0
IMAF                                            .10.3        41.5       .5.4       -10.5       -12.8         0.0         0.0         0.0
OtierAssets                                      10.4       -SS 1       -32.6       48.8       -100.2      -23.3       .26.4       -320
Rescheduling                                      00        6743         42.9         0.0         0.0         00          0.0        0.0
Delt Anuarior                                     0.0        70.5        21.4        20.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        00
Airear                                           1190      -692.1         00          0.0         0.0         0.0 0.0                0.0
Gapil Loamns                                       00        183.8       100.2        11.2      240.5       243.3       309.6       253.6
TeasnofTnade                                      92.6        83.6       89.9        89 5        91.3        90.6        90.8        90.9
(2uAt Accut BAln                               -2.2%       -3.2%       0.5%        1.7%        2.0%        0%         .1.5%       .3.6%
Stock fFoMgnDebt D63.1%                                    975%        89.5%       77.8%       71.%        64.7%       58.7%       57.4%



Gab..: ?ndojw. =, 1993-2005                                                                        Pag 5of#
NoRRfonm Scaso:i; Low Pmdodivity oflnwAmonl
1993      1994       0995        1997      1999       2001       23          l05
ICOR                                                        8.30         ..      16.t       1.6         0.00      10.0  to. 000          0000
OoUm    1in oeotfo0E*po                                   5.2%       329%        00%       0.-0%       0OD%       0.00%      0.00%      0 00%
0ntstRabPAW  pl lLoiU                   _ t                          7142%      74%         7.42%         Y.      504%       30%        580A
OaPd= (SBtL)        -              .63 - 3                            1176       1111       16.t1       0.49       824        09.30  -   203
OG1Pa1CatUn1Pd.ea                                         2.50       0.%         1.4A%      2.11PA     2W%  .2.1             2 .5%      2.50%
O DlaDpicowmuPd.                                          5.25       163%       0.01%      0.01%      00%        0.0%       o          0.00'
Nmo.O1DPdeCz1Pm                                           110%   .14t%   2.3%    147t                 3%   -%    I"%.70    16%
GDP Odam                                                   0. WA    36*0%       10.04%      333%       2.%        3.04%      3.21%      3 tO
(DPid CwolPnA=                                            3.00%     35179%      11.6a%      5.60       537%       562%       579%       116%
PdeComuipdo dotw                                          5.7tS4    2OM.0        5S6%       3.5%       333%       332%       3.22%      3.22.
Fbh                    tFofGoda&No4oagrm                  1.44%     S7.3%       1157%      3.14%      3.11&%      3.9%       3.75%      373%
(cmICFAF)
tbp.wofQoosAhPdo.Prgom9cM0%3.01%                                     M5M1        6.VI%     3.49%       510%            5.3  I55%        5.43%
(owUOCFAF)
otxtVah                                                   60%        2.13%      0.44%      0.         0.67%       0.70%      0.73%      076%
0040Voamo                                                 1.4S%      .7.10%     319"        0.4%      20%         2.34%      2.26%      2.44%
Tam OMd                                                   -.5.8%     ..79%       7.4S6      0.05%     490U%      .014%       0.09%      0.03%
TO<Rv                                                     3M9M      4425%    320%           1.17%      333%       3.A%       4.17%      4.1%
OilRsyamr                                                 7.07%     6I0ss%   43.73%        019%        .88%      2.41%      26%        270%
ToEal So dum                                              7.2%      45.02%       1.6%      ..06%       0.36%       .31%      3.1tY      2.79%
am nwo     dtame                                          6.70%     36.02%      2A6%      41.41%     .1.06%      0.67%      2.30%       1.73%
CRPW&Padib=                                               932%      tl12X%      0.00%      0.00%      5.44%      5.61%      $.7J%       5.73%
Dom     icCft                                             3121%      1M29%      9.8%        7.00ff    .7.9%       620%       667%       6.48%
Chon CwnCow1r                                             3.k*  92%  459M%      995%       7.00%     .719%       6.20%      6.67%      848%
Mony&0Qu     oMoay                                        4.66%      19.46%     10.453%    itWA       18.79X      5.72%      570%       5.76%
inoud f DP
Olti BudzpdyBa eDamt(.)                                  .12%        *621%      0.56%      2X%          .32%      5.57%      11%        5192%
Pdmy Bdr                                                  045%       2SK%       8.61%      a           9.79%      8t% K       04A4%     7.31%
Gm  Ocow elI wAt                                         21.60%     2640%      24.90%      24*4%      24.91%     24"3%      24.0%      24.89%
pdyalalnv00maw                                           17.31      2.81%      19%        209        09*3%      1994%       19.92%     1991%
aGm  D4 6 Sn.                                            34I2%      4.23%       45M.%      44.5I%     42.96%     40.70%     32.76%     36.93%
Re=oe DBliwe                                             13.33%    1tt3%      20.70%      19.66%     0.0I3%     1178%      13.8%      12.05%
Bduo altmuOlA.cq       ke.                                -2%       -2.0%       1.%        2.09%       2.70%      1.79%       .1%       0.91%
StOO* dFpmFMDeb                                          6306%      97.50%      t93%       7707%      71.17%      63.03%    53.61%     4629%
iflbIiora OfCFAF                                           9712      2047.4     208       2m2         22159      2016.0     086.2      19035
.nm ahuOfUSS                                              34.5       33S5.      3404       320.0      3374.6     3327.0     3167.7     3059.
oe
P" qBbon(mfio)                                              1.01       1.04       1.6         1.12       t.17       123        1.29       0.35
vowth                                                    249%       140%       z40        2A49       240%       240%       2.A9        2.49%
R-lCo-nwp npaC.O                                           9058       78.        0.         807.7      83t6.6     8t6        8838        909.2
C00%CFAFAo
.5Y0M1h                                                 .4.24%    -t2.5%       210%       0.1%       138%       1.41%       1.42%      1.2L%
Debt SCm  Ra6o (a %ofcapb
ofvc&&wnumAtwmm1)
BcSdebtmubdd      vgbwmw-                                21.%       2101%      240%       20a.%      22.16%     20.19%      17.15%     7.71%
AAffmdab tmwW*ftWlanodion                                212%       2MM        220%       19.4%      2534%      2S1         23%        178%
GDP  d aoW   Mdi Pd..                                     I56.5   2a000         23"2        2634.1     23         3389.4     370"6      4044.
Gum- m      nwetpaym.mb.n 00 0w 159.0    -722.t                                   *30.0      .0          0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
4qoueimdmowacagaau                                         40.       .30.0      .309        3.           8.0        0.0        .0         0.0
COrnopk.e6.uOm.s                                           109.0     -00          0                0.0              0.0 Q.                00o



Ane VII
Gabon: Nation*l Accounts, 1993-2005                                             Pae6ofa
No Reform Scenario
(inbillions of CFAV)
1993       1994       1995        1997       1999        2001       2003        2005
Curent CFAF
GDP                                 154U.      2100.0     2344.2      2634.1     2990.3      3420.7     3964.8      4601.6
oawNet idirc TAxMS                   124.4      163.2      1Y4.9-      201.5      227.6       253.3      2836        317.2
GDP factor cost                     142.1       1936.8     2159.3     2432.6      2745.5     3056.1      3421.1     3827.2
Agriculbte                           127.5      173.1       193.2      217.1       248.5      284.6       325.8      373.0
liduy                                691.4      1139.9     1263.4     1362.7      1502.3     1612.8      1752 1     1902.2
Oil                                  460.2      826.0      913.0       969.0     1051.6      1096.7      1161.3     1225.8
Non-Oil                              17S.1      241.8      269.9       303.3      347.3       397.6      455.2       521.2
Corgitction                           53.1       72.1       80.4        90.4      103.5 -     118.5      135.6       155.3
Scryices                             727.7      787.0       887.6     1054.3      12222       1412.0     1626.7     1869.2
Resouce Balance                      206.1       395;4   -  485.2       518.0      530.3       481.S      420.4       3381
Total Impors                         493.7      917.7       979.8     1045.4      1180.5     1343.1      1545.6     1779.1
Toet Extb                            699.8      1313.1     1465.0     1563.4      1710.8     1824.9      1966.0     2117.2
Domestic Aboption                    1340.4     1704.6     1859.0      2116.2     2436.5      2787.5     3191.9      3645.9
Toal Conswption                      1006.4     1150.1      1275.2     1461.8     1695.8      1962.6     2269.3      2614.5
Public Consumption                   298.9      340.0      361.5       378.2      420.3       471.3      527.7       590.6
Private Conm ion                     707.5      810.1      913.7      1083.6     1275.5      1491.2     1741.7      2023.9
Total lvestent                        334.0      554.5      583.8       654.4      740.7       824.9      922.6      1031.4
Publiclnvestmenz                     65.0       117.5      117.5       125.3      148.1       165.0      184.5       206.3
Privatelnves t                       269.0      437.0      466.3       529.1      592.6       659.9      738.0       825.1
CeumDornastic Savis                  540.1       949.8      1069.0     1172.3     1277.3      1346.8     1435.3      1529.9
CWnstant 1989 CFAF
GDP at maket pies                    1497.1     1484.9      1506.3     1564.7     1643.9      1727.2     1814.6      1906.5
NctldirectTaxes                      120.4       115.4      118.8      119.7       125.S      1322        138.9      145.9
GDP at fictorcosgs                   1376.7     1369.5     1387.5      1445.0     1518.1      1595.0     1675.7      1760.6
Agriculture                          123.1       118.9      121.7      129.3       138.5      148.4       159.0      170.3
Industry                             773.3      785.8       790.8      804.6       821.2      839.0       858.1      878.5
Oil                                  551.4      571.4      571.4       571.5      571.5       571.5      571.5       571.5
Non.Oil Sector                       176.0      170.0      174.0       184.9      198.0       212.1      227.2       243.4
Cosiuctio                            45.9        44.4       45.4        48.2       51.7        55.4       59.3        63.5
Savices                              600.7      580.2       593.8      630.8       684.2      739.8       797.6      857.7
Resouce Balance                      275.1       342.8      329.6       334.2      315.0       302.0      285.4       269.0
Total hIporb                         518.7      481.4       497.2      498.7       528.2      552.9       581.8      611.2
Total Expos                          793.8      824.2       826.8      8329        843.2      854.9       867.3       80.3
Domstic Absoption                    1222.0     11421       1176.7     1230.6      1328.9     1425.2     1529.2      1637.4
Total Couption                        889.9      7S1.6      820.4       862.5      939.7      1016.3     1099.6      1186.1
Public Cw=s4mtion                    242.9      251.2      247.6       247.5      260.1       M.2        287.1       301.6
Piate Consumptin                     646.9      530.4      572.8       614.9      679.7       743.0      81Z5        884.5
Tolad nvaenat                         332.2      360.5      356.4       368.1      389.2       408.9      429.6       451.4
Public Invstmen                       64.6       76.4       71.7        70.5       77.8        81.8       85.9        90.3
Privat  nvs_te                       267.5      284.1      284.6       297.6      311.4       327.1      343.7       361.1



Annex V
Page 7 of$
Gabon: Fiscal Accounts, 1993-2005
No Refom Scenario
(ua ofCFAF
19983   _    1994       1995         1997        1999        2001         2003        2005
TotlRevm e& fwlt                            35S0         1Q92        6749        7338        7961         8645        9542        1054.3
TcdI R.W.                                   353.0       509.2        664.Q       7238        79a 1        864.5       954.2       J054.3
OilRves*                                    168.0       270          391.0       421S        457.8        4774        505.5        533.6
NS.Oi)Rbwue                                 S180       237.2        27.9        3020         3384        387.1       4487         520.7
TucRemnue                                   175.0       227.2       2639         291.0       339.8       38S.7        4505        522.9
DirteTcs               *                    46.1        56.6         71.0        7S.0        967         110.6       128.1        148.7
b4dhs/Tin                                  124.4       1632         184.9       201.5       228.9        261.8       303.5        352.2
DotmuhcTom m Goods& Samics                  S4.1        60.0        67.0         74.0    .    4U6        977         115.3       136.4
T _ _TOCninuma a Mada,70.3                             103.2       117.9        127.5       144.3       164.1        188.1       215.8
Tuwkbpwtds                                 63.8        88.2         92.9       102.5        115.9       131.8       151.7        174.6
Tom aon ipts                                6.5        t5.0         25.0        25.0        28.4         32.3        36.4         41.2
OdwTs                                        4.5         7.4          8.0        115         14.2        163          18.9        21.9
NW  sRevme                                   10.0        10.0        10.0         11.0        129          14.7        17.0        19.8
Grua                             ~~~~        ~~~~5.0  10.0  10.0      10.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Tota1BVmdiZB                                448.0       649.7        661.7       672.6       638.9        690 1       759.0        S46.0
Qwat _mditne                                3600        489.7        501.7       502.6       489.9        519.5       561.4        616.8
C-u dofticn                                243.0        275.0       288.0        302.0       338.3       389.8        451.7       524.4
Wv asnea                                   150.0       165.0       178.0        190.0       213.1       245.6        284.6       330.3
qoodsendolbhrwvios                         93.0        110.0       110.0        112.0       125.2       144.2        167.1       194.0
Tumfi& Subsidies                            20.0         30.0        25.0         28.0        18.7        19.4         20.1        20.9
litllPqmuis                                 97.0        184.7       188.7        172.6       133.0        110.4        89.6        71.5
CapilalbpdiEz                                88.0       160.0        160.0       170.0        149.0       170.6       197.6        229.2
QmllBDu     Dufic()                         -90.0      -130.S         13.2        61.2        157.2       174.4       195.2        20S3
PrB7oe                                         .0        54.2        201.9       233.8        290.2       284.8       284.8        279.8
F    n                                       gOig  90.0  130.5       -13.1       461.1       -157.2      -174.4      -1l5.2       -208.3
Financitig                                  -69.0       S52.6         16.9       -31.1       -157.2      -174.4      -195.2       -20S.3
C@vdgmduiatzion of arms)
rm _icFhuwing                               20.3        .60.0       .95.0        -35.0        43.4        60.7         42.5      -136.9
aimnihpn          (mt)                      40.0       -30.0        -30.0       -30.0         0.0          0.          0.0          0.0
FimningA_wsd                                69.7        1905         81.9        -26.1      -200.6      -235.1       -237.7       -71A
DawieponLcaw                                25.0       313.9        221.3       126.2         S0.0         0.0        80.0         80.0
A _mmumdaw                                 .74.3       .176.1      -203.7      -172.3       280.6        315.1       317.7        151.4
DSkRIUd g  in phO                            0.0       674.3         42.9         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
DdbtCwA11ai*n                                0.0        70.5         21.4        20.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
OqilLau                                       0.0       183.8        100.2        11.2         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
EutauPubDicDut (SUmSiae)                   3359.1      3385.8       3434.5      3238.0       2857.5      2154.3       1392.       1131.2
(MwP. ofP)
mWPaMODebt                                62.22%       97.50%      g9.53%       77.01N      59.926A     39.49∞h      22.03%      ISAI%
TdgRi,.                                    2tg%         24.2%       28.4%       27.5%        26.6%       25.3%        24.1%       22.9%
Oil R_w                                    10.9%       13.0%        16.7%       16.0%        15.3%       14.0%        12.7%       11.6%
cmE      _ emodbn                           U2.         23.3%       21.4%        19.1%       16.4%        15.2%       14.2%       13.4%
Ow..lB _ho                                  45.8%       -6.2%        0.6%        2.3%         5.3%        5.1%         4.9%        4.5%



Anne: VU
Gabon: Balaitce of Payments, 1993-2005                                                f
No Reform Scnario
(in biIIuofCFAF)
1993      1994       1995       1997       1999       2001       2003       2005
Cunent Account
ExotsofGoods&Non-FactorSemces                  6998      13131      1465.0     1563.4     1710S      18249      19660     21172
MerlchandiseExportsfob                        6056       11202     12483      f330.      14574      1547.9     166 2      17862
o(wOilSeaot                                 492.9      8950       9898      1051 0     11445      11895      12595      13295
ExponofNon-FactorvSamces                       942       1-92.      2167       2331       2534       2720       3028       3310
IwOil Sector                                            92.3      1020       108.3      117Q       1256       135.3      1453
ImpotsofGoods &Non-FactorSemiovi       -       493.7      917.7      9798      1045.4     11805      1343.1     1545.6    17791
Me.handiseunpoit.fob                          239.3      4409       4738       5041       5688       6430       735.4      8399
1mpottsofNon-FatorSeivtces                    2544       4768       5060       541.3      6118       700t       810.3      939.2-
RCsoUTcC Blanoe                                2061       3954       4852       518.0      5303       4818       420.4      3381
Factorlncome:Rccitpts                            70         8.4        84         74        149        21.1      23.1       254
Otberznveatomenincome                           0.0        00         0.0        00         7.0       12.8       14.2       16.0
Diect ueinent income                            7.0        8.4        8.4        74         79         8.3       s.         9.4
FadorInci :Paymcnes                            206.8      4062       4101       401.8      391.6      402.2      3979      4167
InteaeDie(incL MF)                             78.8      152.2      158.0      IS1.0      140.8      151.3      1471       1659
oSwvnteretonGapfill                            00         68        17.5       261        53.0       96.4      1384       180.5
Direa  vesatmnt mcomie                        128.0      254.0      252.1      250.8      250.8      250 8      250.8     250.8
Net Factor Income                             -199.g    -397.9    .401.7    -3944         *3767      -381.0     -374.8    .391.3
Total Trnsfers: Receipts                        15.0       23.3      23.3       23.3        16.3       16.5      16.6       16.7
TotalTrunsfer:Payments                          51.0       77.5       83.5      91.8        968       102.1      107.7      1136
Not7Tra.fes                                    -360       -542       -02       46g5        -80.4      -856       -91.1     -96.9
NetPctrPve Traufers                           .40.0      -65.5      71.5       -79.8      .96.2     -101.5     -107 1     .113.1
Net PublicTrsofent                              40        113        113        11.3       13.7       13.7       13.7       13.7
usurentAccountBalance                          .337       4679        121       43.8        59.4        1.5     -59.2    -163.8
(excluding official capita transfeis)
Canftal Acuntt
Dimet Invesment and Pnvae Dcbt                   6.9        5.3        43         8.1       0a0         0.0       0.0        0.0
NctFlowsonOfifcialDebt                          49g3      137.8       17.6     -46.1        39.8        8.2      71.9       182.2
Disbursements                                 25.0      313.9      221.3      126.2      280.6      315.1      336.8      254.8
o/wpgfihl loans                               0.0      183.8      1002        11.2      240.5     243.3      309.6      253.6
Amotization                                   74.3      176.1      2037       172.3      3205       323.3      408.7      436.9
Shon-Tem Capital                               -47.4    -122.5       -71.5      22.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Capital Account Balnce                         49.S        20.5     .49.6      -15.7        398        8.2       71.9      182
Overall balance                               -1196       -36.1      -262        394       113.0       23.3      26.4       32.0
Finatcing                                      119.1       36.1       263       .394      -113.0     -23.3      .26.4      .32.0
Central Bank                                    0.1       -16.6     -3.0       .59.4     -113.0      -23.3      -26.4      -32.0
IMF                                           X10.3       41.5      -5.4       -105       -128        0.0        0.0        0.0
OtherAset                                      10.4      -58.1      .326      .4.8       -100.2      -23.3      -26A4     .310
Reseheduling                                    0.0      674.3       42.9        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Debt Annuation                                  0.0       70.5       21.4       20.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Arears                                         119.0    -692.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       o0.0        0.0
Oapfill Loans                                    0.       183.8      100.2       11.2      240.5      243.3      309.6     253.6
Tems ofTrade                                    92.6       83.6       89.9       89.5      90.8        87.9      85.3       826
Currt Account Balane                          -2.2%      .3.2%      0.5%        1.7%      2.0%       0.0%      -1.5%       .3.6%
StokofFot Debt                                63.1%      97.5%     89.5%      77.1%      71.8%      64.7%      58.7%      57.4%



