Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13914
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
RAILWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2891-IND)
JANUARY 19, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofTicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1994)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1          =  Rp 2,150
Rp 1 million     US$482
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)     =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (kin) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Indonesia
and
Indonesia State Railway Public Corporation
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR                -    Economic Rate of Return
GOI                -    Government of Indonesia
ICB                -    International Competitive Bidding
IND                -    Indonesia
MIS                -    Management Information System
MTC                -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPV                -    Net Present Value
Perum              -     Government-owned public corporation
PJKA               -     Indonesian State Railway (Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api)
PPAR               -     Project Performance Audit Report
RSI                -    Resident Staff Indonesia (WB office in Indonesia)
RTA                -    Railway Technical Assistance
sq km              -    square kilometer
US$                -     United States Dollars



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 19, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Republic of Indonesia
Railway Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2891-IND1
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Republic of Indonesia - Railway Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2891-IND), prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part
II contributed by the Borrower.
The project, the second to date for Indonesia railways, kad two objectives: to bring
measurable and significant improvements in railway traffic operations and (mechanical and track)
maintenance with four years of project approval (1987); and to lay the groundwork for a major
railway reorientation which was to result in the railway's financial viability within seven to eight years.
Technical assistance, which lent its name to the project title, represented 20 percent of total project
costs; equipment accounted for 60 percent, and training for 20 percent.
The project was implemented at estimated costs, with a delay of one year. It achieved most
of its major objectives. A major accomplishment was the railway's transformation from a government
department into a semi-autonomous corporation. Training yielded good results. Operational changes
occurred, most of them positive, but of uncertain import. Unaudited accounts for the last four years
suggest that the railway made progress financially. But financial viability remains elusive in an
environment of below-cost freight rates, non-economic passenger services and inadequate levels of
operational efficiency.
The project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, and institutional impact as substantial.
Sustainability is rated as uncertain because of financial uncertainties affecting railways operations.
PCR quality is fair. No audit is planned.
Attachment
Thia document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RAILWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2891-IND)
TAJBLE OF CoNTENTrs
Page No.
Preface  ..........................................i
Evaluation Summary  ..................................ii
Part I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  . .
A. Introduction.                                                       1
B. Performance Judgements and Analysis.                                2
(a) Project Objectives.                                            2
(b) Achievement of Project Objectives.                            3
(c) Implementation Record                 .5
(d) Project Sustainability.                                       6
(e) Bank's Performance.                                           7
(f) Borrower's Performance.                                       7
(g) Assessment of Outcome.                                        7
(h) Key Lessons Learned.                                          7
Part II  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                        8
Part III   STATISTICAL TABLES .............                ............        40
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ..................                  41
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ................                42
Table 3:  Project Timetable  ......................                  42
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated
and Actual ..........................                   43
Table 5:  Project Costs .........................                    43
Table 6:  Project Financing  ......         ................         43
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants .....        ............        44
Table 8:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ...............              45
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Missions .....         ............        46
Table 10: List of Training Modules Implemented  ....      .....      47
Table 11: Equipment Purchases for Training Modules       ......      48
Table 12: Operational and Financial Targets/Actuals  ... ....        49
Appendix:   Map No. 25852.53 .-------...............
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RAILWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2891-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Completion Report for the Railway Technical Assistance Project
in Indonesia, for which Loan 2891-IND in the amount of US$28 million equivalent was
approved by the Board on December 8, 1987 and made effective on January 7, 1988.
There was no Staff Appraisal Report, only a Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President for this technical assistance project.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1993. The original closing date was
June 30, 1992. Final disbursements took place on July 15, 1993. A balance of
US$413,222.18 was cancelled on November 2, 1993, effective July 15, 1993. The project
was financed by the Bank and the Government of Indonesia only.
This Completion Report was prepared by Adhemar Byl of the Infrastructure
Division of Country Department III in the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office and
reviewed by Anupam Khanna, Division Chief, EA3IN, David Hawes, transport sector
specialist at RSI, Joris Van der Ven, task manager for highway sector and port projects
in Indonesia, as well as Izzet Zincir, Project Advisor of EA3 and M.S. Parthasarathi, task
manager for the project, both now retired.
Preparation of this Completion Report was begun during a combined
supervision and project preparation mission of December 1993. It is based on material in
the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the Completion Report by
preparing its own evaluation of the project (Part II of this report) and by commenting on
the draft of this Completion Report.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RAILWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2891-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.           The island of Java in Indonesia is one of the most densely populated areas
in the world, making it a good candidate for modal mix in land transport. As a result,
there is an extensive road and rail network on the island. There is also some rail activity
on the larger, but less densely populated island of Sumatra. Altogether, the Indonesian
railway system is the largest in Southeast Asia (para. 9).
ii.          The Bank's association with the transport sector in Indonesia has been very
extensive (21 projects) but with the rail system it has been limited (2 projects, including
this one). There have been thirteen road projects and two each in support of shipping,
port and fertilizer distribution. The PPAR for the First Railway Project in Indonesia was
issued in June 1981 (Report No. 3511).
iii.         The First Railway Project, Loan 1005-IND, was implemented in the second
half of the 1970s, with disbursements stretching until January 1980. The purpose of the
project was to assist Indonesia in arresting the decline in the railroad's share of the land
transport market and in increasing the railroad's capacity and efficiency through a program
of rehabilitation and modernization, including a large amount of technical assistance and
practical training. Some progress was made and some targets were met, particularly
regarding passenger transport.   As far as freight was concerned, little change was
achieved.
iv.          Not until early 1985 did the Government request that the Bank undertake
a new evaluation of the State's railway problems. The Bank again concluded that
institutional arrangements and operational and maintenance practices should and could be
modernized and efficiency improved substantially with relatively small inputs of technical
assistance and training and selected investments, mainly in office, workshop and goods
handling equipment. This was the origin of the Railway Technical Assistance Project
(RTA) which is reviewed here.
Project Description
v.           The project consisted of strengthening management information, costing,
procurement, inventory control, train scheduling and rationalization of mechanical and
track maintenance by inter alia providing technical assistance, training of staff, (especially
on subjects such as train operations, marketing and sales, computer hardware and
software), and handling equipment and by making physical improvements to facilitate
container and intermodal traffic (para. 14).



- iii -
Project Objectives
vi.          The principal objective of the project was to assist the State Railway [then
a unit of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC)] in efforts to bring about
improvements in its traffic operations and in mechanical and track maintenance, while
laying the groundwork for a major reorientation of commercial, operational and
maintenance practices to enable the railway to become financially viable over a seven to
eight year period (paras. 7-10). Although the main effort to achieve this purpose was of
a technical assistance nature, the equipment purchases would consume more than
56 percent of the project cost and more than 60 percent of the loan amount (paras. 13-16).
vii.         Loan covenants and agreements expected to promote these objectives were:
(a)   to substantially reduce the number of railway employees;
(b)   to prepare annually, before the start of the budget year, a detailed staff
training program, satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)   to  convert the  State  Railway  from  a unit in  the  Ministry  of
Communications into a "perum" or government-owned public corporation;
(d)   to achieve agreed operational and financial targets;
(e)   to agree annually with the Bank on the railway's investment plan; and
(f)   to sign a technical assistance and training contract with an international
consultant firm before loan effectiveness.
viii.         These objectives were reasonable and achievable. Most difficult to achieve
were the substantial reduction in staff, the annual agreement on the railway investment
program (in the context of the large amounts of questionable bilateral assistance) and the
operational and financial targets. The latter were, in the final analysis, only partially
achieved (paras. 11-17).
Implementation Experience and Results
ix.          The project achieved many of its major objectives and some satisfactory
development results. Achievement of the physical targets of the project was primarily the
result of the quantitatively and qualitatively successful training efforts, which were
themselves the result of the training method selected. The training effort was broken up
into more than 22 modules (Part 111, Table 10), each prepared and taught by competent
middle-level executives of overseas railways, who were only available because the training
did not require longer-term absence from their own career path. The Government of
Indonesia was very supportive, and although with a year delay, did the required nominal
institutional transformation of the state railway from a Government department to a semi-
independent corporation (perum) while ownership of the track was retained by the
Government. The financial autonomy remains unsatisfactory (paras. 18-20 and 27).
x.           The project was completed with need for only one year extension of the
closing date.  The total cost of the project was US$31 million including taxes of
US$100,000 on Consultant Services. No taxes were levied on railway equipment and
materials. Except for US$413,000 which were cancelled, the rest of the US$28 million
loan was disbursed. Consultant services and training were financed 100 percent from the
loan. Equipment and materials were financed 100 percent from the loan for foreign
expenditures and 65 or 95 percent for local expenditures. Government counterpart funding
was appropriate.
-- - - - - -- -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~



- iv -
xi.           Whereas the project has laid some solid foundations, there will be a need
for continued assistance and support to realize the full technical and institutional benefits
and objectives. It was recognized at the outset that financial targets would at the earliest
be reached three to four years beyond the implementation period of the project and
considerably more effort will be required to make the financial objectives achievable
(para. 17).
xii.          The Bank's supervision effort was satisfactory and very supportive of the
railway's implementation effort. The supervision teams had very good relations with the
Government and the railway management team. There was continuity, as the same person,
an economist, remained the task manager over the implementation period. Only on the
engineering side was there less continuity (para. 23).  The Government was very
responsive to the training efforts and effects, as all former trainees were promoted and
several were nominated to higher managerial positions (para. 24).
xiii.         This was a project that, drawing lessons from the substantially less than
optimal training and operational effort under the first project, had considerably more
success. Though there was room for improvement, the project substantially achieved its
development objectives (para. 25).
Summary of Findings, and Key Lessons Learned for Future Operations
xiv.          Important findings of the project implementation experience were that:
*     participating in a financially responsible manner in the freight market will require
a much more focused and concentrated effort, for which tariff and institutional
changes, and training and operational improvement efforts may have to be
complemented by new investments in track and rolling stock and in transit
facilities;
*     making financial improvements overall, particularly on the passenger side, will
require long-term arrangements with the Government in the form of subsidies or
permission to reduce money losing services; it will also require further efforts to
reduce the number of unnecessary employees;
*     attitude changes will also be necessary to develop an independent railway company,
able to finance its own operational and investment expenditures;
*     modular training, to attract bright middle-level people rising in their own overseas
railway environment, was a good idea which resulted from the judgement of the
Bank's appraisal team that the technical assistance under the first rail project had
not succeeded because such bright people could not be attracted when they had to
be absent from their own companies for two years or more at a time (para. 26).
xv.           To develop a railroad company that takes a responsible part in freight
transport, that is financially independent of Government and that eventually might belong
to, or be more dependent on the private sector, tariff changes and further operational,
institutional and training efforts will be required through a series of projects of a sectoral
nature. Hence the need for successive new projects, for which preparatory studies have
been launched (para. 21).



I



- 1 -
Part I: PROJECT IDENTITY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.         The island of Java in Indonesia is one of the most densely populated areas in
the world, making it a good candidate for modal mix in land transport. As a result, there
is an extensive road and rail network on the island. There is also some rail activity on the
larger, but less densely populated island of Sumatra, primarily dedicated to specific
commodity freight transport services. Altogether, the Indonesian railway system is the
largest in Southeast Asia.
2.         The Bank's association with the transport sector in Indonesia has been very
extensive (21 projects) but with the rail system it has been limited (2 projects). There
have been thirteen road projects and two shipping, two port and two fertilizer distribution
projects. The PPAR for the First Railway Project in Indonesia was issued in June 1981
(Report No. 3511).
3.         The First Railway Project, Loan 1005-IND, was implemented in the second
half of the 1970s, with disbursements stretching until January 1980. The purpose of the
project was to assist Indonesia in arresting the decline in the railroad's share of the land
transport market and in increasing the railroad's capacity and efficiency through a program
of rehabilitation and modernization, including a large amount of technical assistance and
practical training.  The general conclusion was that the project made a valuable
contribution. The ongoing deterioration of the railway was arrested. Some additional
progress was made and some project targets were met, particularly regarding passenger
transport. For freight, volumes transported increased substantially but tariffs were so low
that for every extra ton transported deficits increased. Much work remained to be done
and discontinuation of technical assistance resulted in loss of the gains made. Finally, the
Government made a policy decision declaring the railway a social service, in apparent
conflict with the loan documents.
4.         Not until early 1985 did the Government request that the Bank undertake a
new evaluation of the State's railway problems.  The Bank again concluded that
institutional arrangements and operational and maintenance practices should and could be
modernized and efficiency improved substantially with relatively small inputs of technical
assistance and training and selected investments, mainly in office, workshop and goods
handling equipment. This was the origin of the Railway Technical Assistance Project
(RTA) which is reviewed here.
5.         The project consisted of strengthening management information, costing,
procurement, inventory control, train scheduling and rationalization of mechanical and
track maintenance by inter alia providing technical assistance, training of staff, (especially
on subjects such as train operations, marketing and sales, computer hardware and
software), and handling equipment and by making physical improvements to facilitate
container and intermodal traffic. In addition there were some institutional tasks of which
the transformation of a section of a ministry (perjaan) into a more autonomous agency
(Perumka) was the major one (para. 8).



- 2 -
6.        The project comprised the following physical items:
(a)  technical assistance (about 270 staff-months) to the State Railway (PJKA) in
the following areas: a comprehensive management information system,
costing, procurement and inventory control, train scheduling, and
rationalization of mechanical and track maintenance (US$6 million including
contingencies, of which US$4 million to be financed by the Bank);
(b)  training of railway staff (about 430 staff-months) in all areas of modem
railway operations and specifically train operations, marketing and sales
(US$6.5 million of which US$6 million to be financed by the Bank);
(c)  acquisition of equipment for handling containers and intermodal traffic, a few
pieces of maintenance and miscellaneous equipment, and computer hardware
and software for a management information system (US$17.5 million all to
be financed by the Bank); and
(d)  minor physical improvements, such as paving of yards, to facilitate container
and intermodal traffic (US$1 million of which US$0.5 million to be financed
by the Bank).
B. PERFORMANCE JUDGEMENTS AND ANALYSIS
(a) Project Objectives
7.        The principal purpose of the project was to assist the State Railway in efforts
to bring about improvements in its traffic operations and in mechanical and track
maintenance, while laying the groundwork for a major reorientation of commercial,
operational and maintenance practices to enable the railway to become financially viable
over a seven to eight year period. These original objectives of the project did not need
modification during the project implementation period.
8.        The loan covenants and agreements expected to promote these objectives
were:
(a)  to substantially reduce the number of railway employees from about 47,000
to about 41,000 by March 31, 1991, and to provide funds to PJKA for
compensation of redundant staff;
(b)  to prepare at least two months prior to the start of the relevant budget year
a detailed training plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the training of PJKA
staff and to carry out the plan;
(c)  to carry out a program  for the conversion of PJKA into a "perum"
(government-owned public corporation) by March 31, 1989;



- 3 -
(d)  to take all action necessary to enable PJKA to achieve the operational and
financial targets agreed with the Bank; these actions were described in para.
9 of a Technical Annex to the MOP; and
(e)  to submit to the Bank for comment, at least three months before the relevant
budget year, a draft of PJKA's annual investment plan, and thereafter the
final plan.
(f)  to sign a technical assistance and training contract with an expatriate
consultant firm before loan effectiveness.
9.         The original objectives were clear and realistic and important for the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy in the transportation sector. In a country with a major island
as densely populated as Java (more than 800 people per sq km, and more than 100 million
people in total) and with a second island as large as Sumatra and endowed with substantial
natural resources, railways must be able to play a substantial complementary economic and
environmental role to roads. There is a more than 6,000 km long network which makes
it the longest network in South East Asia. The network is integrated in Java, but consists
of three separate railways in Sumatra.
10.       This was clearly an ambitious and demanding project for the borrower, who
wisely agreed with the Bank on a project implementation agency supported by overseas
consultants, who were judged to be so essential that they had to be contracted before the
loan could become effective. The combination of Indonesian railway-specific overseas and
local training with practical group application of the material learned overseas under
supervision of the overseas trainer, was an essential element in the success of the technical
assistance, but also challenging as far as the complexity of the exercise was concerned.
(b) Achievement of Project Objectives
11.       Most original objectives were reasonable and achievable to a large extent as
the results summarized below show:
(a)  the sensitive, but not over-ambitious employment reduction targets were
achieved. The funds for payment of salaries to redundant staff, who were
told to stay at home, were provided by the Government.
(b)  the training program was successfully prepared and implemented. This was
the result of the break-up of the training efforts originally in 15 and finally
in 22 modules, each prepared and taught by competent middle-level
executives of overseas railways, which were only available because the
training did not require longer-term absence from their own career path
(Part III, Table 10).
(c)  With 19 months delay, i.e., on October 30, 1990, the Government
transformed the State railway from a Government department into a semi-
autonomous corporation (perum), while ownership of the track was retained
by the Government.



- 4 -
(d) The operational targets were only partially achieved; the financial targets
were apparently achieved but there is still a need for tighter financial
performance especially regarding subsidization of non-economic services (Part
III, Table 12 and para. 16 below).
(e)   The annual agreement on the railway's investment program raised a number
of sensitive issues concerning a large number of questionable bilaterally
financed projects.
(c) Implementation Record
12.        The project achieved some of its major objectives and had some satisfactory
development results. Considerably more effort, however, will be required to make sound
financial objectives achievable. This was recognized at the outset, as the ultimate financial
targets were only expected to be reached three to four years beyond the implementation
period of the project (para. 1). Whereas the project has laid some solid foundations, there
is a need for continued efforts to realize the full technical and institutional benefits and
objectives.
13.        The equipment purchases, though substantial, (in fact financially more
important than technical assistance) were mainly in support of the primary objective which
was to improve operational efficiency through practical training (Part II, Appendices 2 and
3a and b). They consisted of 26 contracts of which one, for TV equipment for a container
terminal, was cancelled. The rest was more or less orderly, and timely procured with
maximum delays not surpassing seven months. The Bank disbursed US$17.5 million for
goods, with a total contract price of US$18.6 million or 94 percent of total. Bank
participation ranged between 65 and 100 percent, 65 percent being for items procured
locally, 95 percent for local ex-factory cost of goods and 100 percent of foreign cost.
Average time spent between bid opening and contract award was about 6 months with a
maximum of 11 months (Table 11).
14.        Specifically the equipment purchases were in support of training modules 2
through 9 and 12 through 14. Module 9 Rationalization and Modernization of Workshops
and Sheds absorbed most of the money for equipment purchases (some US$7.5 million)
followed by Module 12, the Jakarta-Yogyakarta Passenger Requirements Module (some
US$3 million), Module 13, Selection of Integrated Management Information System and
Installation of Car Control Software (some US$2.5 million) and Module 14, the Business
Diversification Module (some US$1.1 million). All the remaining modules absorbed
together some US$4 million in equipment (Table 11).
15.        There are two problems worth mentioning because of the lesson to be learned
from it for the future. In spite of US$2.3 million of telecommunications expenditures, the
computer mainframes are still not operational for lack of telecommunications lines and a
rather expensive wheel lathe (US$1.7 million) which was purchased for the Yogyakarta
workshop under ICB through an Indonesian supplier from a manufacturer in Bilbao, Spain,
shipped from Spain in July 1992 and assembled in Yogyakarta in December 1992, was still
not operational in December 1993 because it had not been commissioned by the supplier
for lack of agreement on the commissioning costs as a result of misunderstanding and lack



- 5 -
of funds in Perumka's budget. The contract, which was cleared by the Bank, states clearly
in the annexed Technical Specifications that 'The cost for installing and commissioning
the machine, as well as for training the operating personnel, will be borne by the
supplier". For an unexplained reason, it was agreed at the pre-bid meeting of July 1990
that cost of installing and commissioning was not to be included in the equipment price and
was to be agreed upon separately.
16.       It took until the 1993/94 budget for Perumka to be able to spend the
equivalent of US$75,000 for the commissioning through the mechanical engineering
department of the local engineering university (Institut Teknologi Bandung). Loan funds
could have been used for the purpose but by the time the lathe problem was discovered by
a supervision mission, the loan had closed and remaining funds cancelled. The lesson to
be drawn from this experience is that commissioning should never be removed from the
supplier's contract, and the Government should maintain up to date loan accounts to know
availability of funds at all times.
17.       Over the period 1988/89-1993, on the basis of unaudited data, both revenue
and expenditure of the railway company doubled but a deficit before depreciation of some
Rp 33 billion turned into a surplus since 1990 and reached some Rp 29 billion (US$14
million) by 1993. The deficit after depreciation was recorded as declining from Rp 68
billion to Rp 1.1 billion (US$0.5 million). Over the same period the working ratio
improved from 118 to 93 (Appendix 4). The debt/equity ratio is forecast to improve from
0.91 percent in FY 1990 to 0.11 percent in FY 1994 (Appendix 4b). Wagon availability
did worsen over the 1988/89-1992 period but locomotive and coach availability improved
from 70 to 76 percent and from 80 to 82 percent over the same period though neither
achieved the targets of 85.5 (Part III, Table 12). Also locomotive utilization expressed in
km/day, and net ton/train productivity as well as wagon turnaround time improved, the
former from 279 to 379 km and from 196 to 229 ton per train and the latter from 8.6 days
to 4.9 days, whereas utilization of locomotives and wagons worsened; only the coach
utilization at 488 km per day in 1992/93 surpassed the target of 420 km per day (Appendix
7 and Part III, Table 12). It should further be noted that running time of express trains
was substantially reduced (Part II, page 13).
18.       Neither the President's Report (MOP) nor the Loan Agreement mentioned
traffic figures. It is, however, worth noting that in absolute terms, rail passengers and
freight transport were growing steadily in Java in the 1980s whereas in Sumatra only
freight traffic was increasing. Total passenger traffic in Java and Sumatra, though
decreasing in Sumatra, increasing by 4.6 percent per annum from 6.2 billion passenger-km
in 1981 to 9.7 billion in 1991 and total freight increased by 13.6 percent per annum from
less than 1 billion ton-km to some 3.5 billion.
19.       The evaluation report of the training program by the implementing consultants
showed substantial qualified success. The Government summarizes the training program
as follows: Total trainees were 224 or an average of more than 10 per module; most
trainees belonged to the railway company (Perumka) although there were also 10 trainees
from the Directorate General of Land Transport (DGLT) and 4 trainees from the Ministry
of Communication (MOC). More than 200 trainees are still with Perumka. Almost all
were promoted (Part II Appendix 1, page 29).



- 6 -
20.        The Government of Indonesia was very supportive of the project, and
achieved the required institutional transformation from a Government Department to a
semi-independent Government corporation (Perum) [para. 12(c)].
(d) Project Sustainability
21.        The Government did not clearly define its future relationship with Perumka
as Perumka continues to be dependent on Government for all its investments. This is
partially due to Perumka's obligation to produce non-economic passenger services but
mainly to the fact that freight rates are too low. The project will need substantial
institutional, operational and investment follow-up to achieve the sector policy
improvements required to make rail play a more important and economic and
environmental role, particularly in Java.
22.       In an environment with higher tariffs, Perumka will have to show more
aggressiveness in the freight market. Most of the rejuvenated current management consists
of former trainees of the project. As far as public sector management and private sector
development is concerned, major follow-up work is required and a study of the necessary
further institutional and managerial development of Perumka is being carried out to this
effect with the help of international management consultants financed by the Bank under
an ongoing technical assistance project (Loan 3385-IND). A second study, to be managed
by Perumka, is also being launched to define the necessary further operational
improvement needs and to select, from among the ambitious Repelita VI railway
investments, a core investment program that is feasible, implementable and fundable under
future programs.
(e) Bank's Performance
23.        The Bank's supervision effort was satisfactory and very supportive of the
railway's implementation effort. The supervision team had very good relations with the
Government and the younger railway management team.  There was considerable
continuity, the same economist/task manager was involved in supervision over the entire
implementation period. On the engineering side there was, however, less continuity, as
several engineers in succession assisted preparation and implementation of the project.
(f) Borrower's Performance
24.        The Government was very responsive to the training efforts and effects, as
several former trainees were nominated to managerial positions, including that of current
managing director. Perumka was rejuvenated, modernized and given new, clearly defined
and more ambitious targets. There is clear demand for follow-up in training modules such
as the management information system (MIS).



-7-
(g) Assessment of Outcome
25.        This was a project that, drawing lessons from the substantially less than
optimal training and operational effort under the first project in the seventies, had
considerably more success the second time around. Although there was room for
improvement, the project was highly satisfactory. Given the substantial achievements the
assessment of this Completion Report is that this was a satisfactory project. Given the TA
nature of the project, no effort was made to calculate an economic rate of return (ERR)
or net present value (NPV), either at appraisal or in the President's Report and
consequently not in this report either.
(h) Key Lessons Learned
26.        The most important findings of the project implementation experience were
that:
participating in a financially responsible manner in the freight market will
require a much more focused and concentrated effort, for which tariff and
institutional changes and training and operational improvement efforts may
have to be complemented by new investments in track and rolling stock and
in transit facilities;
*      making financial improvements overall and on the passenger side will
require long-term arrangements with the Government in the form of
subsidies or permission to reduce money losing services; it will also
require further efforts to reduce the number of unnecessary employees;
*       ithese financial changes, combined with changes in attitude, will also be
necessary to develop an independent railway company able to finance its
own operational and investment expenditures;
*      modular training to attract bright middle-level people rising in their own
railway environment has been a good idea. In the judgement of the Bank's
appraisal team, the technical assistance under the first rail project has not
succeeded because these bright people could not be attracted when they had
to be absent from their own environment for two years or more at a time.
27.        To develop a railroad company that takes part satisfactorily in freight
transport, that is financially independent of Government and that eventually might belong
to or be more dependent on the private sector, tariff changes and further operational,
institutional and training efforts as well as investments will be required through a series
of projects of a sectoral nature for which preparatory studies are underway.



*                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~8-
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. A. Objectives :
The World Bank Technical Assistance project was designed
to :
a) Transfer technology
b) Improve   management,   operation   and    maintenance
practices of PERUMKA
c) Improve the utilization of the existing fixed assets,
locomotives and rolling stock and,
d) Strengthen PERUMKA's marketing capacity
The more specific objectives were :
Improvement of the operation of Jakarta to Surabaya
Express Freight Train, the quality of service of Jakarta
-    Yogyakarta and Jakarta - Bandung  passenger  trains,
and the management information system (MIS) and its
operation
II. B. Description of the Project
The project consists of the following
Strengthen   PERUMKA   in   the   areas   of   management
information, costing, procurement and inventory control,
train scheduling, and rationalization of mechanical and
track maintenance, by interalia, providing technical
assistance, training of PERUMKA staff in all areas
(especially  train  operations,  marketing  and   sales),
computer hardware and software, handling equipment, and
minor physical improvements to facilitate container and
intermodal traffic.
III. Achievements :
The project has proceeded in accordance with the project
description, but there are some variations in the level of
success of each item. Some have been completed in the last 5
year - period, while others haven't been completed yet and
have to be continued. (Appendix 1)
For further clarifications, the following are explanations
on the level of success of each area :



-9-
1. MIS Computer Hardware and Software
Expatriate Consultants proposed a system oriented or data
base approach. In this approach the definition and
declaration of data is done independently from the
programmes and applications. Working in a system oriented
approach  requires  not  only  the  necessary   technical
support from hardware and software, but also implies the
introduction of a strict methodology especially in the
field of data analysis. MIS has been developed for
* Hardware :
Six    mainframe  computers   IBM  AS/400   have   been
installed in Bandung (Head Office and Sub Region II),
Jakarta, Surabaya, Yogyakarta and Semarang.
They are not on line yet, because the telecommunication
facilities have not been available.
Project of telecomunication facilties outside the scope
of this project. Telecommunication facilities are being
developed, and expected to be finished at the end of
1994. The mainframe computer for the time being can be
operated indepedently.
* Software
a. Ticketing and seat reservation
A Software Ticketing System has been installed at
Jakarta - Bandung and Cirebon since September 1992. For
other cities such as Yogyakarta, Semarang and Surabaya
it will be installed soon.
b. Wagon Control System
Software Wagon Control System is being developed,
test operation for Jakarta - Bandung Container
Traffic is being prepared.
c. SupplY and Stock Management
Inventory Control software has been installed in 4
(four) warehouses and 5 (five) locomotive depots for
Pilot Project since December 1992, evaluation has
been done every 4 (four) months.



- 10 -
d. Office System
An office software system has been installed in
the Bandung head office since December 1991, Perumka
will    install   some   in   all   Regions    after
Telecommunication facilities are ready.
e. Pay Roll System
A computerized Pay Roll System has been implemented
since September 1991 at every Sub Region in Java,
South Sumatera and North Sumatera.
f. The result of management information system for
track maintenance are
- Definition study
- Data flow diagram
- Entity relation ship
and the result of the management system for rolling
stock maintenance are
- Definition study
- Data flow diagram
Brainware
a. Courses for computer operators had been followed by
62 staff members by March 1991
b. Courses for computer programmers had been followed
by 59 staff members by April 1991
c. Courses for system analysts had been followed by 19
staff members by July 1991
Programmers  and  system  analysts  work  together   to
prepare  software. Up to now they are still working  to
prepare  software and give training to other  staff  in
the Sub Region.



- 11 -
2. Costing System
A traffic costing system based on normalization costs was
designed for a PC based on Quattro.Pro V.2. spreadsheet
software. An operating manual for the system was produced
and all trainees received first training in spreadsheet
tedhniques and then in the cost concepts and applications
of the model. At least five pilot studies covering
passengers and freight were undertaken. The results were
compared with those obtained from the existing system
and/or the existing tariff. The concept of the traffic
costing system has been accepted by the Project Steering
Committee.
The costing system has been on normalised costs which are
generally estimated first by setting a standard cost of
performance target and then by applying an adjustment
factor to provide cost data more appropiate to localised
conditions. These adjustment factors are  an   indication
of the sub-optimality of the railway system and provide
potentially useful performance targets for operations and
maintenance  managers.  Normalized  costs  are  therefore
created by a combination of standard costs and local
adjustment factors. In the future, the adjustment factors
should  tend to unity and their effect disappear  as  the
company   becomes  properly  resourced  and  new   skills
develop.
The  costing  system had been approved by Perumka's  -
Board   of  Directors,  and  confirmed  by   decree   Nr.
KEP.U/hk.601/3/3/KA-93, May 1st, 1993.
The Finance Directorate of the Head Office, in Bandung,
is responsible for any centralised train costing in
Perumka and uses the Costing Models for Analyses and
Investment.
The costing system which has been developed by adding
the Fixed Cost (FC) based on any logical ratio precentage
for the relationship between the FC and the variable
costs, now been being discussed with the Planning Bureau
of  the  Ministry  of  Communication,  to  receive    the
agreement of the Minister.
3. Procurement of equipment and Inventory Control
Procurement
The equipment proposal under the project is related to
the various tasks of the expatriate experts, the lists
have been approved by the expert, and Board of Director
of Indonesian Railways Corporation (PERUMKA).



- 12 -
The detailed bidding documents were drafted by PERUMKA
and reviewed by the expatriate Technical Assistance
expatriate expert. The bid documents were submitted to
the Bank and got comments and agreement before bids were
invited.
Procurement was done according to the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement. Raiway Technical Assistance have been
done  for  26  Contracts  but  one  contract  (CCTV   for
Container Terminal) was canceled due to the lack of fund
(based on project calculation), the list of the contract
and USD equivalent can be viewed on appendices 2, 3a and
3 b.
Delivery  of  equipment  was  completed  by  June   1993.
Disbursements had   been completed by  August  1993.  The
loan closing date has been extended once from the
original closing date of June 30, 199 (section 2.03) to
June  30, 1993 . FInal allocation
of funds for procurement of
equipment was  US$   17,850,000. Actual   disbursment  is
US $ 17,473,000. Remaining funds US$ 377,000 due to
remaining of freight and insurance (actual less than
contract value) and the fluctuation in exchange rate.
Overall procurement was done well possibly with one
exception. The US $ 1,7 Million Wheel Set Maintenance
Equipment Shipped from Spain in July 1992 and assembled
in Yogyakarta in December 1992 but not installed nor
commissioned  has  not been operated  yet,  because   the
Commisioning fee was deleted during the Pre bid meeting
and no budget was foreseen for commisioning by PERUMKA.
The Contractor requested fee for commisioning separately.
Commisioning fee was very high compared to Indonesian
standards. The project coordinator asked the contractor
more than twice to reduce the fee, but in vain. The
equipment has now installed but has not been used.
To   overcame  this  problem,  project  coordinator   has
requested to the ITB (Institute Technology of Bandung)
the famous Technical University in Indonesia to do the
Commisioning. The commisioning finished on March 1994 and
training for the operator finished at the end of May
1994, and the equipment will be operated in June 1994.
In  appendix 3a we can see that 19 (Nineteen)   Contracts
of 25 (Fifteen) Contracts have been delayed, 2 (two)
Contracts have been delayed by 7 (seven) months and 6
(six) more have been delayed 4 (four) months or more.
The   delays   occurred  because  of  lateness   of   bi
evaluation.   These  difficulties  with  bid   evaluation
occured mostly because of the lack of experience of the
Committee. Now PERUMKA has already more experience to
procure equipment based on the World Bank Guide Lines for
Procurement.



- 13 -
Inventory Control
Trainees  have  developed  Software  to  help   Inventory
Control.  Software  has   been  installed  in  4   (four)
Warehouses and 5 (five) locomotive depots since December
1992 as a Pilot Project . All the Trainees continue to
evaluate and develop the software to Perumka's needs.
4. Train Schedulling
Based upon the implementation plan as decided by PJKA's
Board of Director, Trainees made calculation of running
times for Jakarta - Yogyakarta and Jakarta Bandung
passenger trains and freight express train Jakarta -
Surabaya. The result was :
Running time for passenger train Jakarta - Yogyakarta
takes 9 (nine) hours (previous 10 hours) and has been
implemented since March 1992 and improvement in running
time  for  freight express  train  Jakarta   -   Surabaya
was done in 3 stages :
Stage    I,  22 hours -  first year
Stage   II,  18 hours -  second year
Stage  III,  14 hours    third year
(previously 26 hours)
14  hour  running  time  was  reached  in  December  1992
Parahyangan  Passenger Train Jakarta - Bandung took   two
hours and fourty minutes in March 1992 (previous 3 hours)
with average 85 % punctuality and the number of trains
was 13 back and forth per day. Since November 1993 this
was increased to 17 trains back and forth per day.
To realize the above objectives, trainees set up :
a. a central dispatching office located in Semarang under
the direct control of the chief of the Java Region,
the task of this office mainly consist of 4 items
1) Information for management
2) Follow up of the freight trains and passenger train
in actual time
3) Control   the  effeciency  of  the   various   local
dispatching offices and coordinate their services
4) Coordinate maintenance and train services
b. a local dispatching office in each Sub region. The task
of these offices mainly consists of the following :
1) Control   of  all  trains  on  the  line   concerned
(crossing and passing, insert extra trains etc)



- 14 -
2) Follow up of the freight train
3) Investigate delays and make statistics of delays and
make proposals to minimize delays
4) Follow up the locomotives starting from depot
c. Design study to remove permanent speed restrictions and
implementation of the  design  on  the   track   curves
between :
- Cikampek - Cirebon      KM 176 + 500 - KM 178 + 400
- Cirebon  - Kroya        KM 232 + 260 - KM 232 + 430
- Kroya    - Yogyakarta  KM 431 + 200 - KM 431 + 700
KM 517 + 800 - KM 528 + 300
5. Rationalization of Maintenance
One of the objectives of World Bank Technical Assistance
Project  as  mentioned  in  section IA,  is  to   improve
operation   management  and  maintenance   practices   in
PERUMKA. To reach this  objective,  some  equipment   had
to be procured beside the technical assistance.
a. Technical Assistance
The main aim of this technical assistance was to transfer
know  how   through  which  trainees   will  be  able  to
transfer  their  knowledge  to  others.  Some   qualified
trainees were sent abroad to conduct overseas training
and to see how these foreigners do their maintenance
properly.
(i)   Mechanical Rolling Stock Maintenance (Modules P,
Q + R) :
39 Trainees have been trained and have studied
management   and  32  (thirty  Two)  have   been
traineed  on the job in India.(Appendix 1, P,  Q
and R)
The Trainees have been taught
(a) Flow charts of the movement of rolling stock
over the railway network
(b) Rationalization of workshops and sheds, and
design of new sheds



- 15 -
(c) Modernization of workshops
(d) M.I.S for Rolling Stock Maintenance
(f) Planning,   organizing  and   executing   of
maintenance activities
(ii) Track Maintenance (Module No. 2)
10 (ten) people   have  been traineed  and  have
studied   management   of   track   maintenance.
(Appendix 1, B)
The Trainees have been tought to
(a) Analyze  the  Maintenance  Requirements   of
Track Maintenance Equipment
(b) Select Track for Maintenance
(c) Do Track Inventory and set up a Condition
Management Information System
(d) Analyze   Rail   Surface   Restoration   and
Maintenance Requirements
(e) Annual   Planning  Methodology   and   Daily
Maintenance Activities
(iii) Bridge Maintenance (Module No. 5)
5 (five) people have been trained and have
studied Management of Bridge Maintenance and 6
(six) have done on the job training in India.
(Appendix 1, E)
Main topics studied were
(a) Analyzis of the strength of Bridges
(b) Repairing and strengthening of Bridge Sub
Structures and
(c) Methods of Modern Bridge Construction



- 16 -
b. Maintenance System
(i)   Mechanical
(a) The maintenance strategy has been defined at
3 (three) levels : Daily check and periodic
maintenance      in    the    sheds,       semi
overhaul and overhaul in workshop.
(b) For scheduling maintenance, new method has
been established
(c) A   check  sheet  for  quality  control   of
locomotive    maintenance  has   been   made
and has been
implemented
(d) Inspection procedures have been defined
(e) Calculation  of  manpower  required   based
on the maintenance workload has been done
(f) Rationalization plan of locations shed and
definition of the related tasks have been
done
(g) Skills of Perumka staff have been improved
through on the job training.
(ii) Track
(a) Introduced new rail maintenance method.
Pilot Project has been done at
- Jati Barang - Cirebon
Repair  of  broken  rails  and   defective
joints on a 40 KM section.
- Bekasi - Tambun
Continuous Rail Welding and Rail Repair
on a 6,5 KM long section of double track



- 17 -
(b) Introduced new method of Mechanical Track
Maintenance
Pilot Project at
- Tanjung - Losari
Partial wooden sleeper renewal and joint
welding,  adding  of  ballast  and   final
mechanised  tamping  on   an  8  KM   long
section
- Karang Sawung - Cileduk
As Tanjung - Losari, on an 11 KM long
section in addition to some alignment
correction
(c) Introduced new method of Track Renewal
Pilot Project at :
- Karang - Kosambi
Complete  Track  Renewal  with       UIC  54
rails, concrete sleepers and ballast using
gantry cranes on an 11 KM long section
d) Developed appropiate planning in methodology
for annual and daily maintenance activities
(e) Conduct training in manual track maintenance
(iii) Bridges (Modules 5)
(a) Standard Inspection Forms
To improve the method of bridge inspection,
trainees have prepared standard inspection
forms. The Pilot Project was inspection of
bridges on the North Line
(b) New method of bridge maintenance
The training course concerned mainly Perumka
Assistance and first level foremen
- Design   and   manufacture   of   temporary
equipment to maintain and repair bridges,
used temporary bridges was intruduced in
four locations as a pilot project.



- 18 -
The four bridges which have been repaired
were bridges number 904, 994,869 on the
Cirebon - Tegal corridor and bridge number
217 on the Tegal - Semarang corridor.
6. Training of Perumka Staff
The   Indonesian  Railway  on  behalf  of   Ministry   of
Communication signed contract with BCEOM as    Consultant
for Railway Technical Assistance (RTA) on May 1988. BCEOM
trained 8 (eight) of Perumka's Middle Managers as a
Project  Implementation   Unit   (P.I.U)  and  167   (one
hundred and sixty seven) of Perumka's Middle Managers in
offer disciplines.  RTA   was divided in by 15  (fifteen)
main Modules including Module 1 as Implementation Unit
and 7 (seven) additional Modules which were recomended by
Consultant. Project signed the Contract with Rites and
Canac to train 7 (seven) trainees for management and 38
(Thirty  eight)  trainees  for  Supervisor,  and   signed
Contract with Canac to train 4 (four) trainees to study
freight marketing management in Canada. List of 15
(fifteen) main Modules and 7 (seven) additional Modules
is attached in aDDendix 1.
To get an optimal result, the Board of Directors of
Perumka introduced 3 (three) phases of training for RTA.
a. Phase I : Identification
Each module has to identify problems on the job
related to the module. The result of identification
was reported and presented to the Board of Director
for recommendation.
In accordance with the result of that identification,
the  trainees  together with   Project  Implementation
Unit (P.I.U) and expatriate expert prepared arranged
training sylabus needed overseas.



- 19 -
Some  Terms  of  Reference  (objective  and   expected
result)   of  modules  were  changed  to  match   with
Identification Result.
b. Phase II : Overseas Training
All trainees went overseas to learn solving of the
problems which they prepared during the identification
phase. Overseas training started in July 1989 and
finished by February 1991, for main 15 (fifteen)
modules, and took place between March 1992 to July
1992 for 7 (seven) additional modules.
The results of the overseas training were as expected.
The  trainees  went  back  to  Indonesia  with   basic
information needed to solve problem identified in
Perumka. Each module group had to make a report which
was presented in front of the Board of Director and
other management and staff. On this occasion, the
Board of Directors recommended for implementation.
c. Phase III : Implementation
The trainees presented the overseas training results
and implementation planning to the Board of Directors
and related staff. The Board of Director recommended
and trainees executed the implementation plan in the
region as pilot project.
All trainees had to present the overseas training
results and the implementation planning to the Board
of Directors and related Management staff.
After the Board of Directors agreed to their planning,
trainees executed the implementation in the region as
pilot project.
All   trainees   had  to  present  the   report   of   the
implementation results to the Board of Director and
related Management Staff.



- 20 -
7. Handling EpuiDment
To improve services especially for freight, Perumka
procured with loan funds :
a. Electric Forklift Truck
b. Top Loader
c. Hand Pallet
d. Head Truck and Trailer
e. Tow Tractor
f. Power Pallet Mover
9. Trolleys for Lorries
All handling equipment is very useful, for example, with
the Top Loader, stacking Containers in Dry Port Gedebage
is more rapid.
8. ImDrovement of Container Terminal
Container Traffic between Bandung and Tanjung Priok
continues to grow. In 1988 the traffic was 900 teus/month
and now it amounts to more than 5,500 teus.
Handling equipment and 30 light weight container which
have been procured by RTA are very usefull.
To overcome the growth of demand, Perumka developped a
new terminal at Kiaracondong for empty containers.
9. WorkshoD and Shed EauiDment
RTA Perumka procured some equipment for workshops and sheds
a. Wheel Lathe
b. Wheel Press
c. Cleaning Machine for Brush holders
d. Cleaning Machine for Bearing and Metal Parts
e. Modular Precission sound level meter
g. Anemomaster
h. Plan printing machine type burning 348
i. Drafting Equipment



- 21 -
j. Microfilm Reader/Printer
k. Electric Lifting Jack
1. Machineries & Tools
m. Repair Truck
n. Mobile Shot Blast Machine Bearings
o. Monorail Electric Wire Rope Hoist
p. Railway Wrecking Crane Repair Truck
From those equipments all have been in operation except Wheel
Lathe and Wheel Press, up to now still in commisioning
period. We expected can be operated on June 1994. (see
page 5)
10. ImDrovement of Railway Manaaement and Administration
Key success factor for improvement of Railway Management and
Administration are working ratio and operational performance
indicator.
In Appendix 4 we can find that working Ratio decreasing.
Concerning operational performance indicators is, appendix 5
shows improvement in management. productivity increases year
by  year.   In 1988  productivity was 196 and it was  245  in
1992. The utilization of rolling stock was increasing year by
year.
Perumka   has   introduced  incentive   for   operation   and
maintenance personel based on performance and responsibility
since in September 1991 and the result is improvement in "on
time" train arrival and departure.
IV. LESSONS LEARNT FROM THE EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
The  Bank's  disbursement  have  been  completed  and,   the
implementation of pilot projects in many areas continues to
proceed smoothly. The technical assistance and training
parts of the project have been completed, including the
training of maintenance foremen and manager level training
in corporate and investment planning. Equipment has been
delivered and is in operation.



- 22 -
The express passenger trains from Jakarta to Bandung now
number 10 a day in each direction compared with six in 1991,
and the number of container trains on the same route now
average 3.5 daily in each direction. There is express
freight train between Jakarta and Surabaya in each direction
and travelling time is 14 hours. The turns arround of the
express passenger trains on the Jakarta - Yogyakarta route
has been speeded up and the same train now runs twice daily.
The availability and utilization of locomotive and rolling
stock still need to be improved.
V. Usefulness of the Bank Missions
Discussions were  always  very  open.  Every  time   project
coordinator needed information, the Bank responsed either
from  headquarters  in  Washington  D.C  or  through   R.S.I
(Resident Staff Indonesia of the Bank).
The World Bank Missions have been visiting PERUMKA at least
twice a year since 1988, and have come forward with critical
reviews. They were also supportive of project and responsive
to the needs of the PERUMKA. The World Bank was also kind
enough to send a Rolling Stock Specialist, with a view to
identifying operational and maintenance problems which were
faced by Perumka. The specialist prepared a report and
recomendations to help Perumka solve the problem.
VI. Other Observations :
Beside achievement as stated on point III, other result
caused by the RTA are :
1. Reference  to  their  experience  in  overseas   railways
gives the trainees a broader horizon
2. Trainees of World Bank Technical Assistance Project have
become pioneers in their working enviroment and have
improved the atmosphere and widened the work horizon



- 23
3. More professionalism, everything is planned an executed,
after profound analysis of available data
4. Transfer of knowledge to other employees is easier
5. Trainees   executed    voluntarity   additional   studies
such as :
- Feasibility   study  for  Mushroom  transportation   in
Wonosobo
- Study of coal transport on the Cirebon-Bekasi line
- Study of cement transport in the Java area (Indarung)
Bandung, July 1994
Acting Chief of Steering           World  Bank  Technical
Committee World Bank Technical         Assistance Project,
Assistance Project,
EDIE HARYOTO                     MASJRAUL HIDAJAT
Finance Director                    Project Manager
coopitnI



- 24 -
APPROVAL OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT PART II OF
WORLD BANK TECHNICAL ASSISrANCE PROJECT
FOR
INDONESIAN RAILWAY PUBLIC CORPORATION
(PERUMKA)
LOAN IBRD NO. 2891 - IND
Bandiug, May 1994
Bureau Chief of Transport                          Chief of Plamiing Division
and Communication BAPPENAS,                        DGLT,
M. MACHMUDIN YUSUF                                         I HADEICUSUMO
__ r-



- 25 -
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 7
LIST POSITION OF TRAINEES
NO.                N A M E                                JOB TITLE                    FINISHED OF        LOCATION
L                                          tIMPLEMENTATION
A. MODULE NO. 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
1   Ir. JOKO MARGONO                    CHIEF OF LOGISTIC                              MARCH 1993   HEAD OFFICE
2   Ir. P. RITONGA                      PASSED AWAY                                                  HEAD OFFICE
3   Ir. JOKO RIYANTO                    DGLT                                                         JAKARTA
4   Ir. INDRAJONO                       CHIEF OF COUCHES SECTION                                     HEAD OFFICE
5   Ir. OMAR BERTO                      CHIEF OF SUB SECTION OF FINANCE ANALYSIS                     HEAD OFFICE
6   Drs. RILANTO WALUJONO               CHIEF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OF MARKETING                        HEAD OFFICE
7   DrS. DJOKO MARTOJO                  CHIEF OF PUBLIC RELATION                                     HEAD OFFICE
8   Drs. DARYANTO                       CHIEF OF ADMINISTRATION                                      YOGYAKARTA
B.  NODULE NO. 2
TRACK MAINTENANCE
1   Ir. NUGROHO WIBOWO                  HEAD OF SUB REGION XI                          MARCH 1991   JEMBER
2   Ir. TJUTJUD TRIYOGA                 CHIEF OF EXPLOATATION                                        NORTH SUMATERA
3   Ir. JULISON ARIFIN                  PROJECT MANAGER                                              JAKARTA
4   Ir. HERU SUSETYO                    PROJECT MANAGER                                              WEST SUMATERA
S   Ir. AUIEN ABDURACHMAN               CHIEF OF WAY AND WORKS                                       SEMARANG
6   Ir. BUDI NOVIANTORO                 CHIEF OF WAY AND WORKS                                       BANDUNG
7   Ir. HANGGORO BUDI WIRYAWAN          DGLT                                                         JAKARTA
8   Ir. RONNY WAHYUDI                   HEAD OF SUB REGION III                                       CIREBON
9   Ir. IRWAN NAZIF SARDJONO            CHIEF OF WAY AND WORKS                                       CIRESON
10   THOJIB UMAR                         PROJECT SECRETARY                                            JAKARTA
C. MODULE NO. 3
SOIL STABILIZATION                                                                 MARCH 1991
1   Ir. RACHMADI, MSc                   CHIEF OF SECTION OF TECHNICAL PROGRAMME                      HEAD OFFICE
2   Ir. WASISTO WIBOWO A                CHIEF OF WAY AND WORKS                                       NORTH SUMATERA
3   LALAN KERTAATMADJA                  CHIEF OF SUB SECTION SURVEY                                  HEAD OFFICE
0.  MODULE NO. 4
MAN POWER PLANNING
1   Drs. SOETAROJO                      CHIEF OF SUB DIRECTORATE                     DECEMBER 1991  HEAD OFFICE
MANPOWER                                                    HEAD OFFICE
2   Ir. MASJRAUL HIDAJAT                CHIEF SECT. OF PREPARING AND ARRANGING                       HEAD OFFICE
3   Drs. ABDUL MOEDJID MOENSA           RETIRED                                                      HEAD OFFICE
4   Drs. SARTONO                        CHIEF OF BUDGETING SECTION                                   HEAD OFFICE
5   Drs. JOEDONO SOETIARTO              CHIEF OF JOB ANALYSIS SECTION                                HEAD OFFICE
8   Ors. BUDHY HERJOTO                  MOC                                                          JAKARTA
7   PRIHADI KELAN PRAWOTO               PROJECT SECRETARY                                            LAMPUNG
8   SUNARTO                             CHIEF OF SUB SECTION OPERATION                               SEMARANG
9   DrS. SUWARTO                        CHIEF OF MANPOWER SECTION                                    HEAD OFFICE
1O   HARI SASONGKO                       OPERATION SUPERVISOR                                         JAKARTA
TOTAL TRAINEES MODULE NJ. 1, 2, 3 AND 4  = 31
traino-ss



-26-                              Appendix 1
Page 2 of 7
E. MODULE NO. 5
BRIDGE MAINTENANCE AND
INSPECTION
1   Ir. MASHUDIJANTO                    TRACK SUPERVISOR                              JULY 1991    JAKARTA
2   SUKISMAN                            CHIEF OF BRIDGE SUB SECTION                                 HEAD OFFICE
3   DARMADI                             CHIEF OF SECTION BRIDGE                                     HEAD OFFICE
4   WIDADA SOEKA HANDAYANI              CHIEF OF SUB SECTION BRIDGE MAINTENANCE                     HEAD OFFICE
5   SOEKHARDJO                          CHIEF OF BRIDGE MAINTENANCE                                 HEAD OFFrCE
F.  MODULE NO. 6
INTERMODAL SERVICES
1   SOEDARMO RAMADHAN, SH               HEAD SUB REGION II                            MARCH 1991   BANDUNG
2   Ir. WHOSEP MUKTAMAR                 HEAD SUB REGION VI                                          YOGYAKARTA
3   Ir. MUCHTAR NURDIN                  CHIEF OF TRACTION                                           LAMPUNG
4   Ir. BAMBANG ADI PRATIGNIJO          CHIEF OF SECTION MARKETIi.                                  HEAD OFFICE
5   Ir. AGUNG WIBISONO                  MOVED
6   Drs. ISTAMAR                        DGLT                                                        JAKARTA
7   Ir. SALIM                           DGLT                                                        JAKARTA
8   ATENG SUMEDI                        CHIEF OF SUB SECTION BUSINESS INTERMODAL                    HEAD OFFICE
9   WALUYO                              STAFF OF CONTAINER TERMINAL                                 BANDUNG
4O   sAMBANG     ""ODJATI                PUBLIC RELATION REGION II                                   JAKARTA
11   KIRWAN                              CHIEF OF CONTAINER TERMINAL REGION IX                       SOLOJEBRES
G   MODULE NO. 7
MARKETING TECHNIQUES
1   DRA. PARYASTINI                     CHIEF OF SECTION OF TARIFF                    JULY 1991    HEAD OFFICE
2   DRA. EPI SYARIFAH                   CHIEF OF SECT.OF MARKETING FOR PASSENGER                    HEAD OFFICE
3   DRS. PAT;RA SUPRIYOSO               CHIEF OF SECTION DEVELOPMENT PLAN                           HEAD OFFICE
4   DRA. YIYIN SAROYINI                |CHIEF OF SECTION OF SUPPORTING TRANSPORT                    HEAD OFFICE
5   HERMAN SJAMSUDIN                    CHIEF OF SUB SECTION OF FREIGHT BUSINESS                    JAKARTA
6   MOCH. MrSERI                        CHIEF OF SUB SECTION CUSTOMER BUILDING                      SURABAYA
7   ASRIL                               CHIEF OF SUB SECTION CUSTOMER BUILDING                      YOGYAKARTA
8   DRS. BAMBANG IRAWAN                 CHIEF OF SECTION MARKETING REGION IX                        JEMBER
9   DRS. SUKIRMAN DENIN                 CHIEF OF SUB SECTION OF CUTOMER BUILDING                    CIREBON
10   PARNAWI, SH                         SUPERVISOR OPERATION SUB REGION IV                          SEMARANG
11  IRS. SUYATNO                         CHIEF OF SUB SECTION INVESTMENT                            HEAD OFFICE
12   DRA. SUSI MUNAWATI                  CHIEF OF SUB SECTION PASSENGER BUSINESS                     HEAD OFFICE
13   DRS. SAIFUL ECHWAN                  CHIEF OF CONTAINER TERMINAL                                 BANDUNG
14   DRS. ROSIDI SETIAWAN                MOVED
15   GUMELAR, SH                         CHIEF OF SUB SECTION OF CUTOMER BUILDING                    BANDUNG
1e   SUBANDI WANIMAN                     CHIEF OF SUB SECTION OF FREIGHT BUSINESS                    BANDUNa
17   BASTARI MADJUNI                     CHIEF OF SUB SECTION OF CUTOMER BUILDING                   JAKARTA
H   MODULE NO. 8
EXPRESS FREIGHT SERVICE
JAKARTA TO SURABAYA
1   DRS. MOCHAMAD T.SATRIO, MSC         HEAD SUB REGION VIII                          JULY 1991    SURABAYA
2   DRS. SOEDARJONO                     CHIEF OF SECT. MARKETING SUB REGION VIII                   SURABAYA
3   UU SUAWARNA                         CHIEF OF SUB SECT.MARKETING SUB REGION I                    JAKARTA
TOTAL TRAINEES MODULE NO. 5, 6, 7 AND 8 = 36
trainoes2



- 27 -                               Appendix 1
Page 3 of 7
I   MODULE NO. 9
RATIONALIZATION AND MODERNIZATION
WORKSHOP AND SHEDS
I   IR. JST. ARITONANG                 PASSED AWAY                                   MARCH 1991
2   IR. EDDY SASONGKO                  HEAD SUB REGION IV                                          SEMARANG
3   IR. HARTONO ATMOSUKARDJO            CHIEF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OF R   D 0.                       HEAD OFFICE
4   IR. RIZAL                           CHIEF OF PLANNING ROLLING STOCK SECTION                    HEAD OFFICE
5   IR. 8AMBANG WIBIJANTC, MSC         CHIEF PLANNING OF INFRASTRUCTURE &                          HEAD OFFICE
ROLLING STOCK
6   IR. A8DUL RASYID SARAKA             CHIEF OF TRACTION SUB DIVISION                             JAVA REGION
7   IR. ACHMAD MULYONO                  CHIEF OF PASSENGER COACHES & WORKSHOP                      JAKARTA
8   IR. ALBINER TAMBA                   STAFF OF WORKSHOP SUB DIRECTORATE                          SEMARANG
9   IR. ARIF WAHYUDI                    CHIEF OF WAGON SECTION                                     HEAD OFFICE
10   IR. FAISAL AZIZ                     CHIEF OF ELECTRICAL SUB SECTION                            HEAD OFFICE
11   IR. CHAIRUDDIN G NASUTION           CHIEF OF LOKOMOTIVE WORKSHOP SECTION                       YOGYAKARTA
12   IR . .- A SITEPU                   CHIEF OF TRACTION NORTH SUMATERA                            MEDAN
13   IR. NARDUS SITORUS                 SUPERVISOR OF TRACTION SUB REGION VII                       MADIUN
14   OTENG                              STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVE WORKSHOP                                JAVA REGION
15   IR. BLUCHER NADAPDAP               SUPERVISOR OF TRACTION SUB REGION I                         JAKARTA
16   Al MUSTARI                         STAFF OF TRACTION SUB REGION I                              JAKARTA
7   KANDUNG RAMIDI                     CHIEF OF TRACTION SECTION SUB REGION V                      PURWOKERTO
18   SLAMET MUDJITO                      SUPERVISOR TRACTION SUB REGION II                          BANDUNG
19   TJETJEP SULAEMAN                   STAFF OF PASSENGER COACHES WORKSHOP                         JAKARTA
20   IR. HERU SUBAGYO                   DOGLT                                                       JAKARTA
21   RUKAMTO                             CHIEF OF PASSENGER COACHES DEPOT                           JAKARTA
22   IR. DARMAWAN PELAWI                 SUPERVISOR OF TRACTION SUB REGION VIII                     SURABAYA
23   IR. JURI TARIGAN                    CHIEF OF TRACTION SECTION JAVA REGION                      SEMARANG
24   ZULKIFLI                            STAFF OF WAGON WORKSHOP SUB REGION VIII                    SURABAYA
25   IR. HERMAN MARIADI K                DGLT                                                       JAKARTA
26   SUDARTO                             STAFF OF WORKSHOP SUB DIRECTORATE                          JAKARTA
27   DJOKO SUTOPO                        SUPERVISOR OF TRACTION SUB REGION IV                       SEMARANG
28   SUDARNO B JASAREJA                  STAFF OF WAGON WORKSHOP SUB REGION IV                      SEMARANG
29   BAMeANG SAKTIJADI                  STAFF OF WAGON WORKSHOP SUB REGION VIII                     SURABAYA
30   RUHIATNA                            CHIEF OF PASSENGER DEPOT SUB REGION 13                     TANJUNGKARANG
31   SUGIATNO                            STAFF OF WAGON DEPOT SUB REGION I                          JAKARTA
32   SLAMET BASUKI                       STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVES DEPOT                                ]DRY PORT GEDEBAGE
33   TJETJEP SUGIHARTO                   STAFF OF LOC. WORKSHOP SUB REGION VI                       YOGYAKARTA
34   MOCHAMAD RIFAI                      STAFF OF LOC. WORKSHOP SUB REGION VI                       YOGYAKARTA
35   SUKASNO PURWOSAPUTRO                STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVES DEPOT SUB REGION I                    JAKARTA
36   MJDIBJO                             STAFF OF LOC. DEPOT SUB REGION VIII                        SURABAYA
37   JEKTIONO                            STAFF OF WAGON WORKSHOP SUB REGION VIII                    SURABAYA
38   WARSITO                             STAFF OF WAGON WORKSHOP SUB REGION VIII                    SURABAYA
39   DARNO                               STAFF OF LOC WORKSHOP SUB REGION VI                        YOGYAKARTA
40   DJUNAEDI                            STAFF OF PASSENGER COACHES DEPOT                           JAKARTA
J   MODULE NO. 10
COSTING SYSTEM
1   DRS. HADIJONO                      CHIEF OF DIRECTORATE ACCOUNTING
2   DRS. MULYANA                       CHIEF OF SECTION COST ANALYSIS                              JAVA REGION
3   DRS. GUNAWAN                        CHIEF SECTION OF INVESTMENT FEASIBILITY                    HEAD OFFICE
4   DRS. INDARrONO                     |MARKETING STAFF                                            HEAD OFFICE
5   DRS. ARIEF WALUYOHADI              HOC                                                         JAKARTA
TOTAL TRAINEES MODULE NO. 9 AND 10    45
traineas3



Appendix 1
-28-                                 Page 4 of 7
K   MODULE NO. 11
TRAIN OPERATION CONTROL
1   rR. ABDUL MADJID ARS IAD            CHIEF OF SIGANLLING & TELECOMMUNICATION    JULY 1991    HEAD OFFICE
2   IR. MURJIAHTO                       TECH. SUPERVISOR OF SIGN. A TELECOM                          JAKARTA
3   ORS. ALFAN WACHID                    TECHNICAL SUPERVISOR OF OPERATION                           HEAD OFFICE
4   AMRIN PURNOMO                       SUPERvISOR OF WAY A WORKS SUB REGION irI                     CIREBON
5   SUBUN SOMAWINATA                     STATION MASTER SUB REGION III                               CIREBON
6   DJEDJE SUHANDr                       SUPERVISOR WAY A WORKS SUB REGION I                         JAKARTA
7   SUSETIYO                            STAFF OF OPERATION CENTRE SUB REGION II                      BANDUNG
8   BAMBANG TRISILO                      STAFF OF DEPOT LOCOMOTIVES                                  JAKARTA
9   KOMARUN                             STAFF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OPERATION                           HEAD OFFICE
L   MODULE NO. 12
JAKARTA - YOGYAKARTA PASSENGER
REQUIREMENTS
I   IR. SUBAGIO ACHMAD SARWONO          cHrEF OF PASSENGER COACHES A WORKSHOP          JULY 1991    TEOAL
2   IR. NIZOM RUSLY                     CHIEF OF WAY AND WORKS SUB REGION VI                         Y0GYAD;ARTA
3   IR. SUBAGIO POEDJISANTOSO            CHIEF OF CONSTRUCTrON SECTION                               HEAD OFFICE
4   IR. MAKBUL SUJUCI                   CHIEF OF WAY AND WORKS SUB REGION IV                         SEMARANG
5   MOCH. NADJIB WIDJAJA                 .,1.EF OF M4ARKETING SUB SECT. REIOI VII                  MADIUN
5   DRS. IMAM SOE,jOrO                  SUPERVISOR OF OPERATION SUB REGION VIII                      SURABAYA
7   IR. DEDIH SUPRIADI                  CHIEF OF TELECOMMUNICATION SUB SECTION                       HEAD OFFICE
8   IR. SUGIADI W                       PROJECT MANAGER                                              JAKARTA
9   DRS. MARGO                          STAFF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OPERATION                           HEAD OFFICE
1    DRS . JUANDA SYARIEF                PASSED AWAY
11   IR. HARRY SEmEDr                    DGLT                                                         JAKARTA
12   FX. BAMBANG SUGENG S                 STATION MASTER SUB REGION I                                 JAKARTA
13   SUDADI                              STAFF OF TRACTION                                            HEAD OFFICE
14   SHALAHUDIN DJAZURI                  STAFF OF TRACK GEOMETRY                                      HEAD OFFrCE
iS   DEDI KUSMAJADI                      CHIEF OF TRACK MEASURING CAR                                 HEAD OFFICE
1s   LOEWARNO                            STAFF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OPERATION                           PURWOKERTO
17   SOEMARTONO RISWANTO                 STAFF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OPERATION                           HEAD OFFICE
18   SETIAWAN                            STAFF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OPERATION                           HEAD OFFICE
19   MUDI PURNOMO                        STAF OF ELECTRICAL DEPOT LOCOMOTIVES                         BANDUNG
20   ASEP PRIJATNA                        STAFF OF SIGNALING A TELECOMMUNICATION                      JAKARTA
M   MODULE NO. 13
SELECTION OF INTEGRATED MIS AND
INSTALLATION OF CARS CONTROL
SOFTWARE
i   IR. SJAHRIZAL SIREGAR, MSC          CHIEF OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT              MARCH 1992   HEAD OFFICE
2   IR. AMRIN LUBIS, MSC                CHIEF OF TRACTION                                            HEAD OFFICE
3   DRS. ARrEF 1UDJONO                  CHIEF OF SUB DIRECTORATE BUDGET                              HEAD OFFICE
4   DRS. sRr KUNCORO                    SUPERVISOR OF OPERATION                                      HEAD OFFICE
5   DRS. EDIE HARYONO                   CHIEF OF DIvIsION MIS                                        HEAD OrFICE
6   ARIE HARYANTO                       STAFF OF RESEARCH A DEVELOPMENT                              HEAD OFFICE
7   RACHMAT ROBANA OETANE               STAFF OF RESEARCH * DEVELOPMENT                              HEAD OFFICE
8   IR. MARYATI, 14SC                   CHIEF OF MIS SECTION                                         HEAD OFFICE
9   DRS. IGNATIUS SUJADI                DOLT                                                         JAKARTA
10   ZR. ASRIEL SYAFEI                   DOLT                                                         JAKARTA
11   SETIAWAN RUBIONO                    CHrEF OF SECT. MARKETING SUB REGION VII                      MADIUN
12   sAGUS ROSADI                        STAFF OF RESEARCH * DEVELOPMENT                              HEAD OFFICE
TOTAL TRAINEES MODULE NO. 11, 12 AND 13    41



- 29 -                               Appendix 1
Page 5 of 7
N   MODULE NO. 14
BUSINESS DIVERSIFICATION
1   IR. JACOBUS SATMOKO N, MSC         CHIEF OF PASSENGER COACHES A WORKSHOP        JULY 1991    SURABAYA
2   CATUR BAMBANG WIYONO, SH           DGLT                                                       JAKARTA
3   SAHAR ANDIKA PUTRA, SH             HOC                                                        JAKARTA
4   DRS. ARGANADI                      CHIEF OF SUB SECT. OF BUILDING AND LAND                    HEAD OFFICE
5   IR. HARRY SUTANTO                  CHIEF OF SECTION ASSETS AND FACILITIES                     HEAD OFFICE
6   ANTON S. TAMPUBOLON, SH            DOLT                                                       JAKARTA
7   BAMBANG SULISTYO, SH               CHIEF OF ADMINISTRATION SUB REGION IV                      SEMARANG
8   DRS. SAIFUL ROCHMAN                ASS.SUPERVISOR OPERATION SUB REGION VIII                   SURABAYA
9   MURIDAN, SH                        SUPERVISOR OPERATION SUB REGION V                          PURWOKERTO
10   ENDAN DARWIN FIRDAUS, SMHK         CHIEF OF TRAIN RESTAURANT SUB REGION I                     JAKARTA
O   MODULE NO. 15
TRAINING
I   DRS. ANO KARNO LATIEF              CHIEF OF MANAGEMENT TRAINING CENTRE         OCTOBER 1991  BANDUNG
2   BH.  PARDEDE                      SUPERVISOR OF INTERNAL AUDITOR                             HEAD OFFICE
3   IR. BAMBANG SULISTIO               CHIEF OF SIGNAL & TELCOM SUB REGION III                    CIREBON
4   DRS. ATJENG WIRASASMITA            PROJECT MANAGER                                            JAKARTA
5   DRS. HOJIN                         CHIEF OF SECTION TRAINING CENTRE                           HEAD OFFICE
6   DRS. WACHJAT A.S                   CHIEF OF SECTION PLANNING JAVA REGION                      SEMARANG
7   DJOKO WIYONO                       CHIEF OF TRACTION SUB DIRECTORATE                          HEAD OFFICE
8   SUDARMANTO                         CHIEF OF BASIC ELECTRICAL & ELCTRONIC                      HEAD OFFICE
9   SURYADI RACHMAT                    CHIEF OF BRIDGE SUB DIRECTORATE                            HEAD OFFICE
10  SUMARMO                             INSTRUCTOR OF SIGNALLING 4 TELECOM                         HEAD OFFICE
11   TUKIDJO                            STAFF OF SUB DIRECTORATE WORKSHOP                          HEAD OFFICE
12   JIMMY BAMBANG SUROSO, BE           STAFF OF WAY AND WORKS                                     HEAD OFFICE
TOTAL TRAINEES MODULE NO. 14 AND 15 =  32
GRAND TOTAL TRAINEES  = 175
Remarks
4 Trainees from Ministry of Communication (MOC)
10 Trainees from Directorat General Land and Transport (DGLT)
1 Trainees was retired
3 Trainees was passed away
2 Trainees was moved
155 Trainees + 49 Additional Trainees are still with PERUMKA
almost 100 X of all the trainees were promoted



Appendix 1
-30 -                                  Page 6 of 7
LIST POSITION OF ADDITIONAL TRAINEES
NO.                N A M E                                 JOB TITLE                    FINISHED OF      LOCATION
IMPLEMENTATION
P   MODULE NO. 16
MAINTENANCE OF DIESEL LOCOMOTIVE
1   FAJAR INDAN WINARNO                  CHIEF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT                      JULY 1993    SIDOTOPO
2   IBNU SUHUD                           STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT                                    JEMBER
3   LEONARD                              SUPERVISOR OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT JATINEGARA                    JAKARTA
4   KOSASIN                              STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT                                    BANDUNG
5   TANTO PRAYITNO                       STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT TANAN ABANG                        JAKARTA
6   PRIYANTO                             CHIEF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT                                    CEPU
7   MARDI SISWOYO                        SUPERVISOR OF LOCOMOTIVE SEMARANG                            SEMARANG
B   SUTARDI                              STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT                                    YOGYAKARTA
9   HARI KUSMIARTO                       STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT                                    JEMBER
10   SUHAR                                SUPERVISOR OF LOCOMOTIVE                                     PURWOKERTO
11   KASNURI                              STAFF OF WORKSHOP NORTH SUMATERA                             MEDAN
12   SLAMET SANTOSO                       STAFF OF WORKSHOP YOGYAKARTA                                 YOGYAKARTA
13   RUSLANI                              CHIEF OF WORKSHOP WEST SLMATERA                              PADANG
14   SUHANDI                              STAFF OF MAINTENANCE AND ROLLING STOCK                       HEAD OFFICE
15   ALI SOFIAN                           STAFF OF WORKSHOP LAHAT                                      LAHAT
16   KUNDARI                              CHIEF OF SUB SECTION WORKSHOP                                YOGYAKARTA
17   RUWADI                               CHIEF OF SUB SECTION WORKSHOP                                YOGYAKARTA
18   WUSTITO                              STAFF OF WORKSHOP YOGYAKARTA                                 YOGYAKARTA
19   SAIDI                                STAFF OF WORKSHOP YOGYAKARTA                                 YOGYAKARTA
Q   MODULE NO. 17
MAINTENANCE OF PASSENGER COACHES
1   RIYANTO                              CHIEF OF COACHES DEPOT                         MARCH 1993   JAKARTA
2   MC JEMIRAN                           STAFF OF LOCOMOTIVE DEPOT                                    JAKARTA
3   KISMOYO                              CHIEF OF COACHES DEPOT                                       YOGYAKARTA
4   KARDJONO                             CHIEF OF COACHES DEPOT                                       JEMBER
5   ENDANG SUDIMAN                       STAFF OF WORKSHOP MANGOARAI                                  JAKARTA
6   MARDJONO                             STAFF OF WORKSHOP MANOGARAI                                  JAKARTA
R   MODULE NO. 18
MAINTENANCE OF FREIGHT CAR
I   SABARIYANTO                          CHIEF OF SECTION COACHES                       JULY 1992    SURABAYA
2   FAKIH                                CHIEF OF SECTION COACHES                                     SIDOTOPO
3   DUSHAN                               STAFF OF COACHES DEPOT                                       JAKARTA
4   SOEHARSONO                           STAFF OF WORKSHOP SURABAYA GUBENG                            SURABAYA
5   DASAR                                STAFF OF DEPOT                                               LAHAT
6   MtUSTOFO SARINGAT                    STAFF OF WORKSHOP                                            TEGAL
7   WAYAN WIDHIA                         STAFF OF WORKSHOP SURABAYA OUBENG                            SURABAYA
TOTAL ADDITIONAL TRAINEES    32
add-train eol



Appendix 1
-31 -                                 Page 7 of 7
S   MODULE NO. 19
MAINTENANCE OF BRIDGES
1   SUKISMAN  BUDIONO                    SUPERVISOR OF SRIDGES                           MARCH 1993   JEMBER
2   ENDANG GUNAWAN                        SUPERVISOR OF BRIDGES                                        TASIKMALAYA
3   AGUS TUGE                             SUPERVISOR OF BRIDGES                                        SURABAYA
4   RAJIKUN                              SUPERVISOR OF BRIDGES                                         MADIUN
5   DJAYUS                               SUPERVISOR OF BRIDGES                                         SEMARANG
6   SUTOPO                               SUPERVISOR OF BRIDGES                                         PURWOKERTO
T   MODULE NO. 20 INVENTORY MANAGEMENT
1   DRS. SAMSUL ANSHORIE                 CHIEF OF SECTION REPORT OF LOGISTIC             MARCH 1993   HEAD OFFICE
2   IR. URAY YUFIKAR                     CHIEF OF SUB SECTION MIS                                      HEAD OFFICE
3   DRS. BUDIARSO                        CHIEF OF PRINTING AND GRAFIS                                  BANDUNG
U   MODULE NO. 21
INVESTMENT PLAN MANAGEMENT
1   DRS. MULYANA                         CHIEF OF SECTION OF COST ANALYSIS               MARCH 1993   HEAD OFFICE
2   IR. BAMBANG PARINTIS                 CHIEF OF SECT OF ARRANGING FOR LONG TERM                      HEAD OFFICE
3   DRS. ARIEF MUDJONO                   CHIEF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OF BUDGET                            HEAD OFFICE
4   DRS. GUNAWAN                         CHIEF OF SECT.OF INVESTMENT FEASIBILITY                       BANDUNG
V   MODULE NO. 22
FREIGHT RAIL ROAD MARKETING
1   DRS. SOEDARJONO                      CHIEF OF SECT. MARKETING SUB REGION VIII    MARCH 1993   SURABAYA
2   ISMANI, SH                           HEAD OF SUB REGION I                                          JAKARTA
3   DRS. WAHJUDIN BASTAMAN               CHIEF OF MARKETING JAVA REGION                                SEMARANG
4   DRS. BADAR ZAINI                     CHIEF OF SUB DIRECTORATE OPERATION                            HEAD OFFICE
TOTAL ADDITIONAL TRAINEES        17
GRAND TOTAL ADDITIONAL TRAINEES = 49
add-trainses2



WORELD 0110 TICINICAL ASSISTANCE PtWJOC?                                             ODITLA07  SOIIAIT                -2                                                                   Appendix  2
rot ril niDIo SioSo I EAILVAl POBLIC  COPAN?                                        DAeir
YALUI Of CONTOACT               AM00NT ILOGIILI  FOX
30.     RAI[ OP CONITACTOR           CONTIACT NO.           WNE                                                         l110 P2NAICIOG              D[3101S1101T       FIOIACI  PISISC
___________________            -                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S$ IQULVALIE? COIPLE?  CONPLET  ag33UFI3 YON OF GOODS
STATED             00   100304103T        3      051  EQU1IVALENT
I   SUMITOMO COZPOEATIOI   Ili/4110111001/0   13-07-1810 US$                     611053,00          10.353,03           is         30.329,00  3 5.657,77              100        I30      I TFLEC04MJIC4TION  EQUIP-
(EO3ULZ-2I                                                                                                                                              MENT   FOR  TRACI  NAIN -
TEONOCE AND PIESOIAL
COMPUTER
I  CY. OOIGGAL J140         jOlINI/IE/P110  30-070-910 PFr              2.35.1,07,10           411.414,SS          100        498.484,55  5 15 .9 41 , 0          100        100     2  AC4144Rr0S  440 TOOLS
3    PI.AANDAVAII NANDIRI   21330/3101111 P/10   01-10-1010 USE                 4t4.803,00         41.303,15           000        474.103,15  473.910,0f    00                   10fl     3 TERMINAL HANDLING EQU1P-
(IODOLI-61                                                                                                                                               NEWTS
4  Pt, NITIOOIAGA GLOIAL   2131H3/1110/P/S0  Q4-10-1990 US$                     405.111,00         40S.651,00            15       2163.611,0  246. 502,3l    00                  :C1      1hIULlol  TRAILERS AND
0*10110               (IO0ULZ-1-7( 
5    NATIONAL TAOAING COT  114/11/10IIO/9/0   05-I0-!111 IF                133.i00.040,00            021.14,51     15   Is          O1121,50  4 1. 1601 , 5 5          !6         If         LE3T  !h'  OFFICE EQUIP-
I         PT. [ I IA            144/NE/00110PFI9    13-I-1110l  001          1.210.300,00        1.360.100,D0   ISO I 55    1,11].6$5,00   397.005   Q 0d               p         lv      4 fr.lTkSiF. VA00N
(IOIULI-61                                                                                                   816.776,3;
O  PT. INDIA 3150A 34100A 212/1011 011/P/10   10-1O-1IIN  All                2.414.073,51    t.414.173,6I   100 A 15    2.48i.273,6I   2. I111.641                      4f0       1-I    I 7 C~olFUTFP RARDVA00 A
(IOIOLI-13)                    Op      I41.500.000,00            01.000,00                                       261.038101    SFA0
I       'It. LAIDDIA            285191/71190/P/IO    17-I2-I10 US$               00200,35            1D.212,35          103         0 0.!12,35  77. 583 T 9   1   00            IC III       SHLSAILZT
INO DALI-I)
I      CT. IOTA FIArANA          30/l0/OIO/fii/      20-02-1001 051            110.264,11          112.864,13           15         03.037,24   66. 448 ,6 2           100    I100        0 00I19C 4474T644NC1  AND
(1001L-5)                                                                                                                                      I          F1,E:O TION    EQOIPNENTS
1I         F.. 0037104            19110/1IOD/P/91   11-01-1111 Di             1.016.101,00           043.351,41          000        143.351,14  6 47. 8 12,3            100        OD      '  O,ILF   O-.I30OP VAN
(IODULI-5 I
ii  PT. NITRONOAGA GLOIAL    31/llII110/P/51   22-03-1511 US$                    136.470,00          131.41,100           15         811710,05  80.3 51 ,45             100        I~ .       ?1 3,4; CONPO100, PHOTO
31JUN10I               IioIALI-4)                                                                                                                                               GRP. l  AI DEAFTIMG  EQUIP-
REITS
It  PT.  NETION3AGA GLOSAL   125101/331D(IN1I   15-0-11I1 Dl                  1.031.140,0O          073.220,55   Igo I 05          114.195,10  797.021   (If   lOT                     1 I  !0tE.TA', RAOODLING EQUIP-
MNAI! 0               (1011L0-0(                      0        11.142.300,00                                                          49 .609,:5                               Fi~173 
Op     II6.112.500,00
13      31407  004004111          91I/0/1110(P/1I  10-04-1lIl  Di                481,135,00          331.101,40          ilal       381 10.130  ~392.567,8-   1 00                 iA   3    UILFTINO~ AND CLEANING
(ROSOLI-9l                     ATS          1401595,00                                                      .                                            EUIPM04T
IN      CY. 303AI ANEIA           221N1/11131p/i0I  4-12-Illi  US1                4 1. 5Of,340       423.172,3i  130  1 i65         416.545,06  3836. 478,6(.  10 0                10  I   41 F4C00NAI1ES
3000ULE-9I                     DI          3N12.13,00                                                            6 .60 4,T4
OP        4.IO1.043003
1S      MA3lSIA0E  300AG         ItsINWI/ID/p/1I   31-01-1101 Do              1.47.201,00         4.013.220,61           300      co3020,01o,    3.9 88 .892            100        L 109    0I  A1C   RAmE0
GO?TVALD               (NOIOLI-I1
1I      PT. 1*7470  307A          13/0113101P1DIP     02-04-1111 US$          1.910.401,00        1.o9r.4o1,on           ioo      iml1.40,oo  1'.695.978                                        E         F4A1NTEN.ANCE
(3000L0-1)                                                                                                                                              40   I      7
II      CY. PAIdA D0ME            13/11E(IIU/P91   3-04-1501t  AUSI             201.101,00          400.3101,0          300        000.313,70   400. 533 ,7~                                               .30
IS      CY. 00TI PIA7A0A         I6/12/NE31J/P/9I   20-01-1111 US3               17N.012,11          105.01,231   o 10  065         314.c2,16  873 .17 8,2.             I 1                   dAOhj 11.  OqIip4100 & CAR
IEOD0LI-14(            O~~~p 51.30D.000,00                                                            1 7 .052 ,3 2
it      ft. IA0T31A               12/010/I11DP/11  10-04-1111 311                141.315,71          243.105,71          0100       tNi.305,15   241 .505.1~  IV                             .C        IC OEQUIPMENT A
IIgOIIL-lA1 I                                                                                                                                      I       mPOTER
20  33010000  COIollAut0o        13/011110/OSIP1I   20-01-110l1 0               .1   .00,02. 0,l     101.421,32          000        fNI.421,02  7 46 .530,6'    100                I  0    20030l CONDITIONING  FOR
{3000LI-I11                                                                                                                                              COACHED
21  CO. P011404              oor/11/momipioo    r7-.s-ol,i  [P  oiz.ooIAS.200,o               1.323.111,40            Is        730.352,91   6 42 .440 ,1'    I50                 II)  I           OR-   COACIES,
(IAODLO-13)                                                                                                                               j               LE'TU;' 0~'IPLFA AN0
NIlA 7 .400R7 FOOOLES
22  Pa. 1400010              164/1111101/P/II  21-31-1911 D00               130.125,11           m.117,11          100        171.030,51  470.242,01~  10                      .3o    22 N FA E1  nI 01      IT PO I
(IOOOLO-1O)                    00D          111.614,IN                                                                                                                        AND3.FPIO  1
22      FT. S30X4L 70.400        1917/1811 111/91l  11-01-1121 003               51,11210,0          111.212,00         I133        5311212,01   572.861,0   1(                    Lo 3o'  0T!N   A 03S114A0ION
INOOOLO-32)                                                                                                                                             173700S"E
A dd .I          25 -5-9 3  US3   53 .703,7 347.807,27  100   100
04    PT. S1S414  PtASET014    1/101/111[i/P(02   11-01-1911  00$                 11.061,01           11.000,DO          500         13.000,00       98.041 ,0!  100              100   24 0E0170P rc(NIPTEO AND
l410300                11OIALE-I)                                                                                                                                               PC'S SOFT0A11
IS       CY.  503101  340         199/1/3111/P3101  11-09-1002 us0               203m.0,00           073.011.00          100        213.100,00    273.740),  4I100    1 00   2 5 N04FN;07  FA0 LEVEL
(NOD0LO-10j                                                                                                                                             COOSFIOC  CeNMO3ICA0301
TO  OI AL                        11.141.202,41   17 .47 .6                



- 33 -                          Appendix 3a
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION : PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT - DELAYS
[mTT                PROJECT CCMPONENTS                                   ACTUAL      MONTHS OF
COMPLETION   COMPLETION       DELAY
1.  Telecommunication Equipment & Personal               12/90          1/90           1
Computers
2. Track Maintenance Equipment and Machineries,
Instrument Device and Tools                          4/91          8/91            4
3.  Terminal Handling Equipments                          6/91          6/91           _
4.  Hauling Trailers and Minibus                          5/91          6/91           1
5.  Electronic Office Equipments                          3/92          9/92  '        6
6.  Container Wagon                                       7/91         12/91           5
7.  Computer Hardware & System Software                  10/91          1/92           3
8.  Soil Stabilization Equipment                         12/91          7/92           7
9.  Bridge Maintenance and Inspection Equipment           5/91          5/91           _
1G.  Mobile Workshop Van                                  11/91          6/92           7
11.  Personal Computer and Photographic &                  4/91          4/91           _
Drafting Equipment
12.  Material Handling Equipments                          4/92          4/92
13.  Lifting and Cleaning Equipments                       3/92          3/92           _
14.  Machineries                                          11/91          1/92           2
15.  Wrecking Cranes                                       3/93          4/93           1
16.  Wheel Set Maintenance Machineries                     6/92         10/92           4
17.  Warehouse Equipment                                  10/91          2/92           4
18.  Handling Equipment & Car                              1/92          3/92           2
19.  Electronic Equipment & Personal Computer             10/91          2/91           2
20.  Air Conditioning for Coaches                          8/91          8/91           _
21.  Window for Coaches, Electric Coupler and              9/91          9/91           _
Night Comfort Modules
22.  Measuring Device for Coaches, Drafting and            2/92          6/92           4
Microfilm Making Apparatus
23.  Tlcketing  Resrv. Terminal, Software                  4/93          6/93           2
and Hardware
24.  Desktop Computer and PC's Software                    3/93          6/93           3
25.  Equipment for Level Crossing Communication            3/93          4/93            1
26.  CCTV for Container Terminal                        CANCELED
Pro-impl



Appendix 3
Pruciaremeint of Fqu.                                                                                                         mnLt kAnB Ir21-l  -7.00   SL__ 0lj'e
BID DOCUMENTS   S}IP DOCUMENTSiEID OFENINGEVAILUATION SENT  AWARD OF               CONTRACI            PERIOD OF
CONTRACT                  hSENT TC THE BAN!;  T0' BIDDERS                   TC THE BAN,.    CONTRACI              PRICE           EVALUATION,'
(m/D/y)    ~      M/D/Y)       (MIt             /D/Y)       (M/D/Y)                              AWARD (MONTHS)
1  Telecomnunication Equipment & Personal           10/18/89          1/18/90       2/26/90        5/7/90        5/14/90   US0          60.3E3,00           3
Computer
2  Track Maintenance Equipment,Machineries          10/18/89          1/18/90       2/26/90        8/22/90       6/14/90   FFr       2.859.207,70            4
Instrument Device and Tools
3  lerminal handling Equipments                     3/26/90           10/3/90       5/23/90        10/6/90       9/17/90   USD         474.803,95            4
4  Hauling Trailers and Minibus                     3/26/90           10/3/90       5/23/90        10/6/90       9/17/90   USD         405.e 8,00            4
5  Electronic Office Equipments                     3/26/90           10/3/90       5/23/90        7/17/90       8/27/90   Rp    133.100.'30,00 +            3
6  Container Wagon                                  3/26/90           4/14/90       5/23/90        8/18/90       10/29/90  USE)        417.900,00L.          5
Rp  1,752.851.100,00 -
7  Computer Hardware & system Software              3/22/90           4/14/90       5/8/90         9/9/90        11/13/90  USD       2.414.073,61 +          6
Rp    142.500.C90,00
8  Soil Stabilization Equipments                    3/29/89           5/21/90       7/9/90         1/24/90       12/12/90  USO          51.297,95 t          5
1a.00G,3-
9  Bridge Maintenance and Inspection Equip.         3/29/89           5/21/90       7/9/90         2/2b/91        1/7/91   USD         112.364,98            6
10  Mobile Workshop Van                              3/29/89           5/21/90       7/9/90        12/20/90       1/17/91   OM        1.058.909,00            6
11  Personal Computer, Photographic &                3/29/89           5/21/90       7/9/90         2/26/91        1/7/91   USD         136.477,00            6
Drafting Equipment
12  Material Handling Equipments                     5/15/90           6/25/90       8/9/90         1/28/91        4/9/91   DM        1.036.640,00            9
YEN    19.642.300,00
Rp    168.712.500,00
13  Lifting and Cleaning Equipments                  5/15/90           6/25/90       8/9/90         5/1/91        3/23/91   DM          484.135,00            7
ATS        847.295,00
14  Machineries                                      5/15/90           6/25/90       8/9/90         2/14/91         1/7/91   USDO        49.508,00            5
DW         354.823,00
BF      4.801.748,00
15  Wrecking Cranes                                  5/15/90           6/25/90       8/9/90         2/26/91        4/9/91   OM        6.478.257,00            8
16  Wheel Set Maintenance Machineries                5/15/90           6/25/90       8/9/90         1/2/91        3/28/91   USD       1.697.491,00            7
17  Warehouse Equipment                              8/28/90           10/3/90      11/21/90        6/1/91        3/28/91   AUS         396.306,00            4
USD         92.624,10
18  Handling Equipment & Car                         8/28/90           10/3/90      11/21/90        2/13/91         4/9/91   USD        874.082,16             5
Rtp    58.300.000,00
19  Electronic Equipment & Personal Computer         8/28/90           10/3/90      11/21/90        3/27/91       4/15/91   USD          248.305,00            5
20  Air Conditioning for Coaches                       9/3/90         10/22/90      12/12/90        4/4/91          1/5/91   YEN    96.912.000,00              1
21  Winaow for Coacnes, Ejectric Coupler               9/3/90         10,22/90      12/12,30        3,27/91 9      5/14/91   Kp  2,126.D05.2,0u,D
and Night Comfort Modules
22  measuring Device for Coaches, Drafting             9/3/90         10/22/90       12/12/90        7/24/91       6/22/91   DKK         630.135,00 +          6
and Microfilm Making Apparatus                                                                                           SGD         628.664,00
23  Ticketing & Reserv. Terminal Software             7/23/91          9/9/91        10/28/91        3/6/92        9/14/92   USD         634.995,78            11
and Hardware                                                                                                   94         0          63.995,78             11
24  Desktop Computer and PC's Software                7/23/91          9/9/91        10/28/91        3/6/92        9/14/92   USD          98.000,00            11
25  Equipment for Level Crossing Communi-             7/23/91          9/9/91        10/28/91        3/6/92        9/14/92   USD         273.78E,00            11
cation
26  CCTV for Container Terminal                       Canceled
L/ USs 1,360,800 in Table 2
7/ US$ 80,272,35 in Table 2



INDONESIA
RAILWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                 Appendix 4
RAILWAY'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Rp. Million)
1. REVENUE
a. TRAIN OPERATIONS
1) PASSENGERS                             99,992     107932    121,512    149,860    186,860    206,721
2) FREIGHT                                68,629     80,780     89,202    106,416    128,214    141,814
b. OTHER                                     13,621     22,408     27,717      42,145     41,486     38,049
c. GOVERNMENT COMPENSATION FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE COST                                            21,703     31,500     31,500
TOTAL REVENUE (1)                                                               . 3
2. EXPENSES
a. DIRECT COSTS
1) FUEL/POWER/LUBRIC                      _          31,867     35,250     40,839     48,540     51,016
2) ROLLING STOCK MAINT                    _          31,147     39,005     42,529     70,591     78,509
3) PERSONNEL                              _          26,258     27,854     28,319     35,911     38,794
4) OTHER COSTS                            _           9,425     10,633     10,874     15,313     15,288
SUB TOTAL (a)         -  i
b. INDIRECT COSTS
1) INFRASTRUCTURE                         _          38,866     -          41,386     50,612     59,685
2) PERSONNEL                              _          15,924     -          17,465     21,139     22,584
3) ACCIDENTS                              _           1,514     -           0,634      1,125      1,000
4) STATIONS/YARD                                      4,279     -           .,268      6,896      8,000
SUB TOTAL (b)                 6:53 772
c. GENERAL CHARGES                            _         84,556     92,437    116,510    111,266    114,182
3. TOTAL EXPENSES (2)                          421      L    3        270,895    3
4. LOSS/PROFIT BEFORE DEPRECIATION (1-3) !mu;5   .             .      (34,4    -   17,300'    26,426 g
5. DEPRECIATION                                (35,046)   (47,249) - (34,866)   (25,983)  - (28,961)   (30,134)
6. DEFICIT AFTER DEPRECIATION (4+5)     -      (67"1)           6    (67330'.    (8,68)                    8
7. WORKING RATIO                                 118,03     115,50     113,62      94,60      93,19      93,061
RADJBT



Appenidix
BALANCE SHEETS
(in billion Rupiah)
FY90          FY 91          FY 91          FY 92        FY 92      .
Year Ended December, 31st        Actual        Appraisal       Actual       Appraisal-    Actual
Estimates                    Estimates
ASSETS                           I
Gross Fixed Assets                     833,59         871,62         850,76         989,32       976,39
Less Accumulated Depreciation          (156,15)      (184,68)       (182,13)       (213,64)     (208,68)
Net Fixed Assets in use                 677,44        686,94         668,63         775,68       767,7.t
Work in progress                          6,49                        10,87                       33,86
Total Fixed Assets                      683,93        686,94         B79,50         775,68       801,57
Investments/Other Assets                132,13        105,56         204,26         112,63       208,15
Cash at Banks                            72,73         62,01          80,53          47,02        81-,60
Inventories                             124,02        120,92         110,64         1t7,90       109, -08
Accounts Receivable                      39,36         33,84          37,36          29,19        56,70
Other Current Assets                     65,00         95,67         101,78         119,34       129,41
Total Current Assets                    301,11        312,44         330,30         313,45       376,79
Less Current Liabilities                (15,35)       (15,26)        (42,56)        (11,32)      (78,99)
Net Current Assets                      285,76        297,18         287,75         302,13       298,60
Total Assets                          1.101,82      1.089,68       1.171,50       1.190,34     1.308,62
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Paid Up Capital                      1.059,02       1.039,52       1.128,88       1.131,64     1.262,44
Retained Earnings                       _             _               (7,74)        -             (11,74)
Total Equlty                          1.059,02      1.039,52       1.121,14      .1.131,64     1.250,70
Total Long Term Debt                     42,80         50,16          50,36          58,70         5T,82
Total Liabilities & Equity            1.101,8211.089,68   1.171,50   1.190,34   1.308,52
Debt/Equity Ratio                         0,91         0,75            0,69          0.51         0.48
Balance-wql
BALANCE SHEETS
(in billion Rupiah)



- 37 -
Appendix 5
Loan Disbursements for World Bank Technical Assistance Project
for PERUMKA Loan IBRD No. 2891-IND
DISBURSEMENTS (IN S MILLION)
LOAN   2891 -IND
BANK FISCAL YEAR AND                                                  ACTUAL % OF
QUARTER                                                         ESTIMATED
1988/1989        1
3        2.30                 2.30                 8.2
4        2.80                 2.30                 8.2
1989/1990        1         3.50                2.36                 8.4
2        4.00                 4.53                16.2
3        6.00                 5.05                18.0
4        7.00                 5.05                18.0
1990/1991        1         8.50                8.19                29.2
2        9.00                 8.91                31.8
3       10.00                 9.46                33.8
4       11.00                 9.62                37.9
1991/1992        1        13.00               12.00                42.8
.,      14.00                12.77                45.6
3  16.00            14.76                52.7
4       18.00                17.49                63.1
1992/1993        1       20.00                19.65                70.0
2       22.00                21.23                75.8
3       24.00                22.23                79.4
4       27.00                26.55                94.8
1993/1994        1        28.00               27.17                97.0
2       28.00                27.60                98.5
Cancelled           US$ 396,730   *)           28.00              100.00
October 1st, 1993
Note
The remaining t 1.50% canceled  due to
a. Remaining of freight and insurance (actual less than
of the contract value)
b. Fluctuation in exchange rate
*) Amount actually cancelled was US $ 413,222.18
See Appendices 6 + 7
(Note added by task manager World Bank)



-38 -                            Appxlx  6
5. Project Costs and Financing for World Bank Technical Assistance Project
PERUMKA Loan No. 2891 - IND
A. Project Costs in local and foreign
(In thousand of Rp. and USS)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                  ACTUAL
Local         Foreign         Cocal          Foreign
DESCRIPTION                Costs        Exchange          Costs         Exchange
Costs                          Costs
(Rp. 000 )      (US$ 000)      (Rp. 000 )      (US$ 000)
A. Civil Works                        6,026            -          5,449,547            _
B. Material and Equipment             3,262         17,850        3,213,706         17,473
C. TA and Training                      833         10,150         799,828          10,114
Total Project Cost                   10,121         28,000        9,463,081         27,587
Cancelled                                                                  413
B. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Catagory               Original           Final            Actual
Allocation        Allocation    Disbursements
(1) Equipment and Materials        14,700            17,850           17,473
(2) Consultant's Services          8,800             10,150           10,114
and Training
(3) Unallocated                     4,500
TOTAL                              28,000           28,000            27,587
CANCELLED                                                              413
procostc



Appendix 7
IDONESIA
RAILWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Loan.2891-IND)
Operational Performance Indcators
~~~:  ..."   ....... ........ .,, :,.-I
; ~~~~~~~~~~...~.    ...... ........::....  >                                      .:..:-6 .0.          _____
1. AVAILABILllY  )
a. LOCO  -70                            75     76      76     76     82      84 25    85,5    92
b. COACH.                        80     78     74      79     82      82     84     85   855       92
c. WAGON                         80     75     66      74     77     83      86     87   87,5    90
2. UTILIZATION (KMIDAY) I
a. LOCO                         279    327    331    338    372    360    390    400    410    47fn
b. COACH                       423    416    372    386    488    380    410    415    420    534                   Lo
c. WAGON                        52   .71       48      41     58     65      80     85      90     95
3. PRODUCTlVITY(.
a.  NET TON7RAIN                196    243    224    229    245    250    280    300    310    315
(FREIGHT).
b. WAGON TURNROUND              806    6,8    7,6    7,1    4,9       7       6      5    4,5    90
SOURCE: INDONESIAN RAILWAY PUBLC COMPANY
...........
[-,BASED ON AVAILABLE POSITION OF THE FLEET OF LOCOMOTIVES, COACHES AND WAGONS
ED Targets: Evaluatiob  Document Targets (Schedule 5 of Loan Agreement)



- 40 -
Part III: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Project Costs
Table 6:    Project Financing
Table 7:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:    List of Training Modules Implemented
Table 11:    Equipment Purchases for Training Modules
Table 12:    Operational and Financial Targets and Actuals



- 41 -
Table 1: SummARY OF A83DMS
A. A event of obetve             Subst_ntl        Pall          Negible    Not applobe
(t)0                            tO)          O)
Macro policies                        E             z                              OK
Sector policies                       El            R               0 
FinanciaL objectives                  E             0 EE 0
InstitutionaL developmnt                                           E IV  0          ]
Physical objectives                   El                            E              El
Poverty reduction                     0             0               0              St
Gerder issues                         0             E                             RI
Other social objectives                                                             n 0  m  0
Erivirormental objectives             0             E               E              OR
Public sector mrangement              El                           El              El
Private sector development                          El              El             El
Other (specify)                                     El              E              El
B. Project Sustalhnty                Llkely               Uncely              Unowtain
(I)                  O)                     )
lff             0E                   El
C. Bank Pefo.mance             HIhly Satisfactory           Satisfactory         Deficait
(I)                     (V)                  (V)
Identificetion                                                 E                    E
Prepratioon assistance                                         El                   El
Appraisal 1                                                                         El
Supervision                            E                                            El 
D. Borrower pwformance         Highly Satiefoatory          Satifatory           Defoiet
O/)                      OI)                 O)
Preparatiof                            E                                            El
Implementation                          o                                           El
Covenant compliance                    pi                                           El
operation (if applicable)               0                                           El
Highly                                       Higl
E. Assesment of outome         satifactory  Satlefuotorf   Unstisfactory  unsatifeatory
El                          El E)



- 42 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LoANs/CREDrrs
Preceding Operations
1.  firgt ghway    i ct   :Jinteasnc                  i19&9          Ongom 
2. Second Highway Sector    Investment & TA              1994        Ongoing
Project
ia; ; X ' X X X - . ;,'',',', X,0;,:. ;,,.X;, ,,.,,. , ....~. . . . . . . . . . . . . -.-  . i;
/a Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
...000  .........-       Date AttuaI/
-t     . .        Cycle      .           P- ed            Latet -... .   ...-..-
Identification (Initial Project Brief)                       October 23, 1985
Prparatin (Peprisa Miason             ArlMay 1985..b...              y 22 W.16
Appraisal                                                    July 11-25, 1986
Negotiatis                            DeceMber 15, 1986   October 1M21, 1987-
Letter of development policy (if
applicable)
Board prs n        February                         7        December 10. 1987
Signing                                                      January 7, 1988
Eff_0000004;tiv.nep 0:-0;000ffSS-S M-c  198 M-00          0000;0ay4j0     6, 19880002X04- t
First tranche release (if applicable)
Mi        revlew f I pli                                       - - ..;p...   -
Second (and third) tranche release
(if applicable)
-rJc conietoi                        Jwd 30i-, 199          J   uri   -y IS, 199 - L-
Loan closing                          June 30, 1992          July 15, 1993 Lb
La Last disbursement.
Lb November 2, 1993 letter informing Borrower of closing effective July 15, 1993.



- 43 -
Table 4: LoAN/CREDrT DISBURSEMNS: CUMULATIVE ESnmATED AND ACTUAL
(USS million)
FY18   FY89:FY90   FY91: -:FY921  FY93    FY94
Apprail estimte         1.0   11.3   21.5   26.5   28.0        -        -
Actual                    -      2.6    7.5   12.0   19.5    27.0    27.5
Actua as % of es0imt      -     23.0   34.9   45.3   69.6    96.4    98.6
Date of final disbursement    July 15, 1993
Table 5: PROJECT COSrS
Actual/latest estimate
Appraisal 0timate:              (US$M)
(US$M)
Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign
Item             costs    costs   Total   costs    costs    Total
1. Equipment and Mat.      -0.5      17.0   17.5       1.6      17.5  19.1
2. Training                 0.4       6.1    6.5       -         -     -La
3. Consuatnt Services       1:.?      4.3    6.0      0.4       10.1  1O.5L&
4. Civil Works              0.4       0.6    1.0      2.7        -    2.7
T-tal 0    -3.0             28.0   31.0      4.7      27.6  32.3
ra lIclud  in C5 Os  t Services
L Includes Training
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
Apprs   tMte (SM          Actuallest estimate (S
Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign
Source          costs    costs    Total   costs    costs       Total
TBR:.IDA.              -           S..      2..               27.6      27.6
Cofinancing institutions    -    -         -        -         -         -
:::e -~teu -      -- ur.-   -    -    -    -           -              - 
Domestic contributions   3.0     -                   4.7      -          4.7
Total       ~~3A.0    2S.O     2S.Q:    4.1       21.6      3.



- 44 -
Table 7: STATus OF EGAL Co                                              oTS
INDONESIA
Ralway Tenkical Assisbnce Project
SOfA     I
,on Wtv, 071261/9
.5 15. 3 .22
vP - LWT A"IA A PACIFIC RIC OPrICE
MO   Z6TgT AT D6TA0ThT         III
25640 - IWFPJTkUC7UU o0r30AT100 DIV
PrIc.I  -    t2St5.t-5.. of CoOnx.  Co pilnc
00  3.0  -,Mlii 0
rcm 56  00AT0  06421/93
Pr.j0et Iii      40IIIlA20  - tAlLWAY  TA
CTdLt                                           *                           0,e tnt   Or'D1-;1 *k-. d   nOOsiptio f Cof  t                            C.o                     2                     dt.
Cr.U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.0t.).04                                         0           C tl                          to 1t.    i t.. Insd out tith dw dilo 5c. nod nt        :    -Ii hth.  I--  d I,vd t. rt dun
0t. 5. 02                                                    N C                                     ofo odnnodt dt   ..-I.   t. a ino         S. to   -Cn1 .- I0  .1
..o.-do - 2.1th 01... nt S.k nidi. b     ..
S ct.1.03                                        9           c                          lltii  1h5to -dtuc nut.  of _plqnw  t. 41,000 byer        cpl I.  eo1
Fct. I.0A I                                                  C                            oilOy to .Inttin p.o..-    -o.d.  ond p   oi. oot..  0. .In .p.i ..
2.05.6.01 Si              6            C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Roli.. 5  .01.1  .odlOtiod fi,,aosll .tntnWt             Aidi t o! 2192t cososto d.lood du- to 0ha.nS  is
0.540 0tse  e                                                C                          Ra lon,w to  ;rrv.. onooso-tond oo..doo s"nodan        Uon In     oind -pst.   .1.a..5,.tso
NC^ttut  C- -                     1..d d      11-1
n5a   C    - c1id oLtir  th _-y -                                                                                                    t
CD   - CIionoq  oft.. Onloy..=                                                  f- 331/9)
C   - _ llot CY  0F 01o6t
- C.4.11..0c1.Ia..2                        205  Ti..tt.    1t.i                                               o,..         ,.f.             .-1
CO   - C1  .d 0056. P0,5 oily ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     .p.d 
Onto.50/10/l001-Yt   ..-t"ut  ~ ....
-5  D 05.23.23X @/ 
PtLCO II  - 5.5.35 05'oo t Con no-nt Ct.nian o
rulL T;tont .0; 000.51 50.00. Cln.n101,otlon
, onan5      .s                                                                                    P.I
2tt- 1DC      -C.1 rWfr ttrch r   rveto    tc
CD     C            ftrct , e . sworn, ft.  b fcfli.r1. D
S"                                in.nblt  m _         Ti-
c,ni.5nons of::': 525.i tr nj.t oI  ofI.*.o5n    q
10I_ trr  t       .l_.d    W t
11 D.ot:..           l 07do1trtoroy/
12  5 ctor .l or exonn-.tornl r .orLntlto tiol nction
1 03.                      -                      A



- 45 -                                        Table 8
Page 1 of 4
Table 8: BANK RESOURCE: STAFF INPruTs
PAGE      1
BRWPRSTF - Lending Operationo Timetable - Staffing Detail                    Run time: 08/26/94 at 08.23.30
Region  4   Department: 258
TRS Dta as of 07/16/94, Work Program Date *c of 07/09/94
Section 1: Heading Information
ID And Name   4INSPA209-RA:LWAYS TA                         rY And Status i 88-L
Country      iINDONESIA                                     Managing Div.   258/40
Task Manager: BYL                                           Task Mgr Div. i 268/40
Section II: Staff'eek Coot Summary
-  s T A F r  W e c K S  -                       -------  D 0 L L A R S (S000)  ------
Actual Planned
Dept                                     Source      Orig.        Retv.            As , No. Of    Planned          Orig.        Rev.
TakID       Div   Type  Staff/Conuvit No.-Nam   Of Funds    Plan             Plan    Actual   Rev. Trips          Trar        Plan         Plan    Actual
FYs6
Preparation, Preappraisl
LENP      258/40  C      AP5910                     B               .0          0       26.3       0        0          0           0         .0          0
LNP      258/40  H      16885 -Morreil             B               .0          0        2.4       .0      .0          .0         .0         .0         .e
LENP      258/40  H      06526 -P rthasa           66                0          0       16 4       0        0          0           0         .0          0
LENP      601/05  H      16894 -HARIRAM            BB                0          0          .       0        0          0           0         .0          0
Total Preparation, Preappraisl                                       0          0        5.8      .0       .0          .0         .0         .0         .0
Total FY86                                                          0          0       45.8       0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
FYe7
Appraisal
LENA      258/40  C      AP6986-TH0MPSON           BB               .0         .0        2.8      .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
LENA      258/40  H      16885 -Morrell            Be               .0         .0        3.7      .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
LENA      258/40  H      06526 -Parthasa           BB                0         .0        9 3       0       .0          0          .0         .0         .0
LENA      258/40  H      08528 -Sigfusso                            .0         .0          2      .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
LENA      258/40  H      08967 -Thomas             a                .0         .0          .2     .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
LENA      258/40  H      08399 -Van Der            so               .0          .0         .4     .0       .0          .0         .0         .0         .0
LENA      601/05  H      16884 -HARIRAM            BB                0          0          .5      0        0          0           0         .0          0
__ __ _  __ __ _ ------_      ____      ___    ___  __    --------    --------   :____
Total Appraisal                                                     .0          0       17.   0   .         00                     0         .0         .0
Negotiation
LENN      258/40  H      16885 -Morrell            B                 0          0           1     .0        0          0           0          0          0
LENN      256/40  H      06526 -Parths                               0          0          7      .0       .0         .0           0          0          0
Total Negotiation                                                   .0          .0        .6      .0       .0          .0         .0         .0          0
-Total FY87                                                         .0         .0       17.6      .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
FY88
Negotiation
LENN      254/40  H      16885 -Morrell            an               .0         .0          .5     .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
LENN      258/40  H      02123 -Bayulken           Be               .0         .0        4.2      .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
LENN      258/40  H      06399 -Van DOr                             .0          0          2      .0        0          0           0          0          0
LENN      268/40  C      AP7045-MELROSE                              0         .0        1        .0        0          .0         .0          0         .0
LENN      268/40  H      06526 -Parthasa           Be               .0         .0        5.3      .0       .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
Total Negotiation                                                   .0         .0       12.1      .0       .0          .0         .0         .0         .0
*Total FY88                                                         .0         .0       12.1      .0       .0          .0         .0         .0         .0



PAGE     4
BRHPRSTF - Project Supervision Timetable - Staffing Detail               Run time: 08/26/94 at 08.23.30
Region: 4   Department: 258
TRS Data as of 07/16/94, Work Program Data as of 07/09/94
Section 1: Heading Information
ID And Nam    4INSPA209-RAILWAYS TA                      FY And Status   88-L
Country        INDONESIA                                 Hanaging Div.   258/40
Task H-nager: BYL                                        Task Hgr Div.   268/40
Section II: Staffweek Cost Summary
-  S T A F F  W E E K S                       -------  D 0 L L A R S ($000)  ------
Actual Planned
Dept                                   Source      Orig.       Rev.            As t  No. Of    Planned       Orig.       Rev.
TaskID     Div   Type  Staff/Com_it No.-Nam, Of Funds    Plan            Plan    Actual   Rev. Trips        Trav        Plan        Plan    Actual
FY88
Project Supervision
SPN      258/40  C      A08984-MELROSE           BB              .0         .0        .9      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      258/40  H      06399 -Van Der           BB              .0         .0        .0      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      268/40  H      06526 -Parthasa          BB              .0        .0        1.1      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
Total Project Supervision                                        .0         .0       2.1      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
Total FY88                                                      .0         .0       2.1      .0      .0         .0        .0         .0         .0
FY89
Projoct Supervision                                                                             . 
SPN      258/40  C                               BB            10.0       10.0        .0      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      258/40  C      A11226-HAIES             BB              .0         .0       1.2      .0      .0    -   .0          .0        .0         .0
SPN      258/40  C      A08984-MELROSE           BB              .0         .0       2.6      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      258/40  H                               BB             5.0        5.0        .0      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      258/40  H      11452 -James             BB              .0         .0       3.0      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      258/80  L      20140 -Hardi             88              .0         .0        .0      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      268/40  C      Allll-MELROSE           BB              .0         .0       4.0      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      268/40  H                               BB             2.0        2.0         0      .0      .0         .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN      268/40  H      06526 -Parthaaa          BB              .0         .0      10.1      .0      .0         .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN PR   268/40  H      07337 -Trnka             BB              .0         .0        .2      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
Total Project Supervision                                      17.0       17.0      21.2  124.7       .0         .0         .0         .0        .0
Total FY89                                                    17.0       17.0      21.2  124.7       .0         .0         .0         .0        .0
FY90
Project Supervision
SPN      258/40  C                               88             6.0        6.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN      258/40  C      A21515-HAWES             BB              .0         .0       1.3      .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0                        83 a)
SPN      258/40  H                               BB             4.0        4.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0                           
SPN      258/40  H      11452 -James             BB              .0         .0         .9     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN      258/80  L                               BB              .5         .3         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN      258/82  H      13583 -Fernando          BB              .0         .0         .5     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0                            C
SPN      258/82  L                               BB               o                                               000o0
SPN  258/82  L                  88              ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~.0  .3  .0      .0      .0         .0        .0         .0         .0
SPN      258/82  L      20140 -Hardi             BB              .0         .0         .2     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN      258/82  L      16304 -Soedjak           BB              .0         .0         .2      0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN      268/40  C      A17647-MELROSE           BB              .0         .0       2.1      .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN      268/40  H                               BB            12.0       12.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPN      268/40  H      09382 -MASTHAGE          BB              .0         .0         .3     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0



BRWPRSTF - Project Supervision Timetable - Staffing Detail               Run time: 08/20*/94 at 08.23.30
Region: 4   Department: 258
TRS Data as of 07/16/94, Work Program Data as of 07/09/94
Section 1: Heading Information
ID And Name   4INSPA209-RAILWAYS TA                      FY And Status   88-L
Country        INDONESIA                                 Managing Div.   258/40
Task Manager: BYL                                        Task Mgr Div. : 268/40
Section Il: Staffweek Cost Summary
-  S T A F F  W E E K S  -                              D O L L A R S  ($000) ------
Actual Planned
Dept                                   Source      Orig.      Rev.             As %  No. Of    Planned       Orig.       Rev.
TaskID     Div   Type  Staff/Commit No.-Name  Of Funds    Plan           Plan    Actual   Rev. Trips         Trav       Plan        Plan    Actual
SPN      268/40  H      06526 -Parthasa          BB              .0         .0       9.4      .0       .0        .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN PR   268/40  C      A17554-WILLEN            BB              .0         .0        .3      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN PR   268/40  H      09382 -MASTHAGE          BB              .0         .0        .1      .0       .0        .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN PR   268/40  H       19680 -Sarno            BB              .0         .0        .1      .0       .0        .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN PR   268/40  H      00556 -Sharma            BB              .0         .0       2.2      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPN PR   268/40  H      07337 -Trnka             BB              .0         .0        .3      .0       .0        .0         .0        .0         .0
Total Project Supervision                                      22.5      22.5       17.9   79.7        .0       -0          .0        .0         .0
'Total FY90                                                    22.5      22.5       17.9   79.7       .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
FY91
Project Supervision                                                                                                                                                          >
SPF      258/40  C                               Be             6.0        6.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0      11.0         .0                          I
SPF      258/40  C      A21515-HANES             BB              .0         .0       2.0      .0       .0        .0         .0        .0         .0
SPF      258/40  H                               aB              .0       17.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SF9      258/40  H       11452 -James            BB              .0         .0         .1     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF      258/82  L                               BB              .5         .5         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF      258/82  L      20140 -NHrdi             Be              .0         .0         .5     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SP9      258/82  L       16304 -Soedjak          aB              .0         .0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF      268/40  H                               BB             6.0       12.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0        .0         .0
SPF      268/40  H      20669 -Anderson          BB              .0         .0       1.3      .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF      268/40  H      06526 -Parthasa          Be              .0         .0      11.5      .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF  PR   268/40  H     06526 -Parthasa          BB              .0         .0         .4     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SFn PR   268/40  H      00556 -Sharm             BB              .0         .0       1.3      .0      .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
SPF  PR   268/40  H     07337 -Trnka             BB              .0         .0         .4     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF  PR   268/40  H     03242 -Virdy             BB              .0         .0         .5     .0       .0         0         .0        .0         .0
Total Project Supervision                                      12.5       35.5      18.0   50.7        .0        .0         .0      11.0         .0
*Total FY91                                                    12.5      35.5       18.0   50.7        .0        .0         .0      11.0         .0
FY92
Project Supervision
SPF      258/40  C                               Be             2.0        2.0         .0     .0       .0        .0        3.7       3.7         .0                       O7 c
SPN      258/40  C      A28887-Hawes             BB              .0         .0        .9      .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF      258/40  H                               BB              .0       17.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0                        L
SPF      258/80  L      20140 -Hardi             BB              .0         .0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0 oo
SPF      258/82  L      20140 -Hardi             BB              .0         .0         .2     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF4     268/40  H                               BB             8.0        8.0         .0     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPF      268/40  H      20669 -Anderson          BB              .0         .0         .5     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0                        a-
SPF      268/40  N      06526 -Parthasa          BB              .0         .0       7.0      .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SPH PR   268/40  C      A50369-FATEEN            BB              .0         .0         .8     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0
SP4 PR   268/40  C      A48472-LEONARD           BB              .0         .0         .1     .0       .0        .0         .0         .0        .0



Table 8
- 48 -                                                       Page 4 of d
PAGE      6
BRWPRSTF - Project Suptr,ision Timtable - Staffing Detail                    Run time  08/26/94 at 08.23.30
Region: 4   Departmnt: 250
TRS Data a* of 07/16/94, Work Program Date as of 07/09/94
Section 1: Heading Information
ID And Na      4INSPA209-RAILJP.YS TA                       rY And Status    8-L
Country         INDONESIA                                   Managing Div.   250/40
Task Manager: SYL                                           Task Mgr Div.   260/40
Section II: Staffak Cost Sunary
-  S T A F r  N C E K S  -                       -------  D 0  L L A R S ($000)  ------
Actual Planned
Dept                                     Source      Orig.        Rev.              As 9  No. Of    Planned        Orig.        Rev.
ToakID      Din   Type  Staff/Conmit No.-Ne   Of Funds    Plan               Plan    Actual   Rev. Trips          Tran         Plan        Plan    Actual
SP" PR   268/40  H       07337 -Trnka              Be                0          0          .3      0        0         .0          0          .0          0
Total Project Supervision                                         10.0       27.0         9.9   36.6         0         .0        3.7        3.7          .0
*Total FY92                                                       10.0       27.0         9.9   36.6        .0         .0        3.7        3.7          .0
rY93
Project Supervision
SPN       242/30  H                                as                0        4.9           0       0       .0         .0          0          .0         .0
SPN       242/30  N       06526 -Perthsa           8B                0           0        4.3      .0        0          0         .0          .0         .0
SPN       258/40  C      A28887-Kas                 S               .0          .0         .4      .0       .0         .0         .0         .0          .0
SPN       258/40  C      A61821-HANIES             88                0           0         .1       0        0          0          0          0           0
SPN       25S/40  H                                R8              1.0        1.0          .0      .0       .5        4.5         .0          0          .0
3PN       258/40  H      01199 -Byl                .8                0           0        3.7      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0         .0
SP"       258/92  L       20140 -Nardi                              .0           0         .3      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0         .0
SP"       268/40  H                                SB             10.0        5.1          .0      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0         .0
SPN       268/40  H      06526 -Parthasa           SB               .0          .0        5.1      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0         .0
3PN       268/50  H       21759 -Grean*y           88                .0         .0         .2      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0         .0
SPN       658/10  H      20669 -Andereon           8B               .0          .0         .8      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0         .0
SPN PR   269/40  H       23653 -Jimn-z             Be               .0          .0         .3      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0         .0
Total Project Supervision                                         11.0       11.0        15.3  139.5        .5        4.5         .0          .0         .0
-Total FY93                                                       11.0       11.0        15.3  139.5        .5        4.5         .0          .0         .0
FY94
Project Suparvision
SPN       258/40  N      01189 -Byl                as                .0         .0        2.0      .0       .0         .0         .0          .0        5.4
Total Project Supervision                                           .0          .0        2.0      .0       .0         .0          .0         .0        5.4
-Total FY94                                                          0           0        20       .0       .0         .0         .0         .0         5.4
Proj. Completion Report
PCR       242/30  H       06526 -Parthasa          Be              3.0          .0         .0      .0       .0         .0       10.3          .0         .1
PCR       258/40  H       01199 -Byl                                .0          .0        4.4      .0       .0         .0         .0         .0        12.0
Total Proj. Comp!etion Report                                      3.0          .0        4.5      .0       .0         .0       10.3          .0      12.2
Tot-l FY94                                                        3.0          .0        4.5      .0       .0         .0       10.3          .0      12.2



- 49 -
Table 9: BANK RESOuRCES: MISSIONS
paa-d               Fwb&   Rstgn
stae of         AMsW        NMimw       D     Irn     saN saims                                       Tvm of
project cycOfe                            d       rqrauiad        Implarnmtde        Devel.paa     pr&
9rojed CYC*                                                         dm                at  r
.,.,  ,,   ,   ,  ,, ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ..,.,    . . .   .           . ., . .;
Appraisa  rooo         7/86                       15
Boad aproval
Supevuimouf             7/86            3          11    Ec/FA/Eng
.;...'.. '',.'.-'..'..''.'-"'''.'- ' .'.-.:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~.......
5/89            2          10      EC/Eng
10/89            2           7      Ec/Eog
-~~~~~~~               ~.. '-.".'....-  "'"-""''  -  "'- '- . -' -.-..-......
2/91            1          17       Econ
-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          . ....j. .                      ...
06/92             1         10        Bcon
'~~~~~~~~~~~~.       .',  .'. , '.,' ''  .   ."
Conlcti-o             12/93             1          8    Econ/Eng.



- 50 -
Table 10: LIsT OF TRAING MODULES IMPLEMENTED
Module 1          Project Implementation Unit
Module 2          Track Maintenance
Module 3          Soil Stabilization
Module 4          Manpower Planning
Module 5          Bridge Maintenance and Construction
Module 6          Intermodal Services
Module 7          Sales and Marketing
Module 8          Freight Operations Planning
Module 9          Rationalization of Workshops and Sheds
Module 10         Traffic Costing
Module 11         Train Operations Control
Module 12         Jakarta-Yogyakarta Passenger Services
Module 13         MIS Integrated Systems Analysis and Design
Wagon Control System Rolling Stock and
Track Maintenance Planning Systems
Module 14         Business Diversification
Module 15         Training of Trainers
Module 16         Maintenance of Diesel Locomotives
Module 17         Maintenance of Passenger Coaches
Module 18         Maintenance of Freight Cars
Module 19         Maintenance of Bridges
Module 20         Inventory Management
Module 21         Investment Plan Management
Module 22         Freight Railroad Marketing
Source: Indonesian Railway Public Corporation (Perumka) Report of the Results
on World Bank Technical Assistance Project for the Indonesian Railway Public
Corporation, September 1992, and Government contribution to this report
(Appendix 1).



Table I1: Equipment Purchases for Training Modules
Contract       IBRD        Percentage          Planned    Actual      Delay    Months between
Price   D)isbursed    Eligible   De facto      Completion       (months)       bid opening &
Components Procured & Purpose (Module)                                    (USS eq.)                       financed          (date)                       contract award
Module 2: Track Maintenance                                            558,838      551,599
Telecommunication Equipment & Personal Computer                       60,353       35,658         65          59        12/90      1/91         1         3
Track Maintenance Equipment, Machineries Instrument Device &'Tools   498,485      515,941        100         104        4/91       8/91         4         4
Miodult 3: Soil Stabilization                                           80,272       77,584
Soil Stabilization Equipment                                          80,272       77,584        100         97         12/91      7/92         7         5
Module 4: Manpower Planning                                            136,477       80,352
Drafting & Photographic Equipment & PC                                136,477      80,352         65          59        4/91      4/91          1         6
Module 5: Bridge Maintenance & Inspection                              755,717      714,261
Mobile Workshop Van                                                  643,352      647,812        100         101        11/91      6/92         7         6
Bridge Maintenance & Inspection Equipment                             112,365      66,449         65          59        5/91       5/91         -         6
Module 6: Intermodal Services                                         1,835,604    1,687,691
Container Wagon                                                     1,360,800    1,213,781     100/95         89         7/91     12/91         5         5
Terminal Handling Equipment                                          474,804      473,910         100        100         6/91      6/91         -         4
Miodule 6 and 7                                                        405,658      246,502
Trailers and Minibus for I lauling                                   405,658      246,502         65          61        5/91       6/91         1         4
Module 7: Marketing                                                     72,495       41,162                                                                                Ln
Electronic Office Equipment                                           72,495       41,162         65          57        3/92       9/92         6         3
Module 8: Express Freight Jak-Surab.                                   400,311      400,534
Warehouse Equipment                                                  400,311      400,534        100         100        10/91      2/92         4         4
Module 9: Workshops and Sheds                                         7,455,820    7,317,152
Wrecking Cranes                                                     4,083,221    3,988,892        100         98         3/93      4193         1         8
Set of Wheel Maintenance Machinery                                  1,697,491    1,695,978       100         100        6/92      10/92         4         7
Material Handling Machinery (Equipment)                              873,228      846,631      100/65         97        4/92       4/92         -         9
Other Machinery                                                       420,772     393,083      100/65         93        11/91      1/92         2         5
Lifting and Cleaning Equipment                                        381,108     392,568         10)       103         3/92      3/92         -         7
Module 12: Jak-Vogya Passengers                                       3,297,828    2,851,663
Windows, Electric Couplers and Night Comfort Modules for Coaches    1,123,681     642,440         65          57        9/91       9/91         -         5
Air Conditioning for Coaches                                          741,428     746,531         100        101         8/91      8/91         -         I
Ticketing and Reservation Wares for Terminals                         581,212     620,668         100        107         4/93      6/93         2         11
Measuring Devices for Coaches, Drafting and Microfilm Apparatus      479,719      470,242        100          98         2/92      6/92         4         6
Le% el Crossing Communication Equipment                              273,788      273,741        100         100         3/93      4/93         1         11
Desktop Computer and PC Software                                       98,000      98,041        100         100        3/93       6/93         3         11
Module 13: Mis+Car Control Software                                   2,490,074    2,372,679
Computer Hardware + System Software                                 2,490,074    2,372,679     100/95         95        10/91      1/92         3         6
Module 14: Business Diversification                                   1,153,382    1,132,081
Handling Equipment and Car                                            905,076     890,231      100/65         98         1/92      3/92                   5
Electronic Equipment and PC                                           248,306     241,850         100         97        10/91     12/91         2         5
Total                                 18,642,476   17,473,260                    94                                          6
file work/bylhable/module2 xis



- 52 -
Table 12: Operational and Financial Targets and Actuals for PJKAIPERUMKA
FY
88/89       89/90        90/91        91/92        92/93
T    A      T    A       T    A       T    A       T    A
1. Availability (%)
a. Loco (train)            80   70    82   75        84   76      85   76   85.5  76.0
b. Coaches (mainline)      80   80    82   78        84   74      85   79   85.5  82.0
c. Wagon                   80   80    83   75        86   66      87   74   87.5  77.0
2. Utilization (km/day)
a. Loco                   340  279   360  327   390  331    400  338    410  372
b. Coaches                350  423   380  416   410  372    415  386    420  488
c. Wagon                   50   52    65   71        80   48      85   43     90   58
3. Productivity
Net ton/train (freight)   200  196   250  243    280  224    300  229    310  245
Wagon Turn-round (days)      8    9      7    7       6    8       5    7    4.5  4.9
4. Financial                  87/88        88/89        89/90       90/91        91/92
a.Workingratio             125  n.a.   121  118    118  116    115  114    111 95a/
b. Operating ratio (%)     147  n.a.   142  n.a.   140  132    133  128    132 03 b/
T: Target
A: Actual
a/ 1992 and 1993 actuals both 93.
b/ 1992 and 1993 actuals 101 and 100 (unaudited).
Source: Schedule 5 of Loan Agreement between IBRD and government and Pout 11, Appendices 4 and 7.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25852
100                                                                         150,
INDONESIA
RAILWAY NETWORK
RAILWAYS
THAILA,ND D                                                                           PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
AIRPORTS
PORTS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Bondo Aceh}
0     200    400    600    800    1000
KILOMETERS                            5
BRUNEIl
Medan             MALAYSIA
MALAYSIA
Rantaupropot
_ c>SINGAPORE
Peka nba ru
o                       Padongponjong        C
Poriomon   I P akumbuh                                                 Pontionak 0
Podong'   Solok                                                                               ,. -
Jambi
S  U   (V1  A   T  E  R  A                                                               C Palongko,ayo
(S   U   M   A   T   R  A.
Luauklinggau          lPoembong
Bengkulu c                                                                                   Bonjormosin
Tonjung
Karang
Merak         JAKARTA
The  boundaries, colors                                                Lobuhon      Korowong
denominations and  an                                                                                             
on  this  m     do  not
iply, on  th  pot of                                                     Malingping  Bandun          A    /
The World  Bank  Grou..,Srby
any 1udgment on the leg                                                  an
stotus of any  territory,                                                                Ci.n                                             Probolinggo
or any  endorsement
or acceptance of such                                                                              COc0P  Ygy.k         ,L
boundries.                                                                                                              tn            an
Bionyuwangi
PtHiLPPINES-                         1_                                                                   10-
ei
10'
MAY 1994



