Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
gj(V. ?c?c-2TA'
Report No. 5942-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
April 11, 1986
Energy Department
Pet-roleum Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =     Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00             =      Rp 1,100
Rp 1,000             =     US$0.91
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)              =     0.159 cubic meters (cu.m.)
1 standard cubic foot (cf) =      0.028 cu.m.
1 British Thermal
Unit (btu)              =     0.252 kilocalories (Mc)
mcf                         =     thousand standard cubic feet
mcnfd                       =     million standard cubic feet per day
mcm                         =     thousand cubic meters
mmcm                        =     million cubic meters
tcf                         =     trillion standard cubic feet
toe                         =     tons of oil equivalent (in heating
value)
tpy                         =     metric ton per year
KWh                         =     kilowatt hour (1,000 watts per hour)
MW                          =     megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAKOREN                     National Energy Coordinating Board
BAPPENAS                    National Development Planning Board
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
FRR                         Financial Rate of Return
GOi                         Government of Indonesia
ICB                         International Competitive Bidding
IOC                         International Oil Company
LIB                         Limited International Bidding
LNG                         Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG                         Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MIGAS                       Directorate General of Oil and Natural Gas,
Ministry of Mines and Energy
MIS                         Management Information System
OGE                         Osaka Gas Engineering Co., Ltd.
PGN                         Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (National
Gas Company)
PLN                         Perusahaan Umum Listrick Negara (National
Electricity Company)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFIAL USE ONLY
ITDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
WAN AND PROJECT SUJOARY
Borrower:              Covernment -of Indonesia
Beneficiary:           Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (PCN)
Amount:                US$34.0 million equivalent
Lending Terms:         Repayable over 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:      The Government would onlend US$32.6 million of the
proceeds of the Loan to PCN at a rate of at least 12X
per annum. Repayment of funds for gas distribution
(US$23.1 million) would take place over 15 years,
including a grace period of five years; repayment of
funds for customer conversion (US$9.5 million) would
take place over eight years, including a grace period
of five years. US$1.4 million would be used by the
Government for additional studies. GOI would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Project Description:   The principal objective of the project would be to
accelerate the utilization of natural gas in high-value
uses in the domestic market. This would be achieved by
developing the infrastructure needed to distribute gas
to industrial and commercial consumers currently using
liquid fuels as a source of energy, and by building up
the institutional capability of PCN to actively market
and distribute gas. Support would also be provided to
facilitate the conversion of industrial consumers from
liquid fuels to natural gas, and to assist GOI in
setting appropriate fuel prices so as to encourage the
optimal utilization of gas.
The project would consist of: design and construction
of major extensions to the existing natural gas distri-
bution networks in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan, including
new supply lines, local distribution pipeLines,
regulator stations and customer metering stations;
rehabilitation of PGN's existing gas distribution
networks, which are unsafe; and establishment of a
program to assist industrial users in plant conversion
for natural gas use. A centerpiece of the project
would be the "twinning" of PCN with an established gas
ut.lity to develop PCN's managerial and technical
expertise through close collaboration with a similar,
more experienced, operating entity.
L This document has a nstricted disubutin and may be usd by ripients only in e perfonnance 
of theirofficMkdutties Its contents may not otherwise be discked without World Bank uhorizatiorL



Risks: The potential risks faced by the project fall into four categories:
(i) timeliness of gas supply, (ii) delays in market development,
(iii) declining fuel values, and (iv) shortfalls in institutional
capability to implement the project. These risks have been
recognized from the beginning, and, as far as possible, pre-
cautions to minimize them have been built into the project
design. The substantial benefits which can be derived from the
project far outweigh these risks.
Estimated Costs:                             Local      Foreign     Total
------- US$ miLlion--------
Distribution Systems
Jakarta                              10.4        9.7         20.1
Bogor                                 2.6        2.2          4.8
Medan                                 2.6         2.3         4.9
Upgrading of networks
in other cities                     0.8        1.5          2.3
Sub-total                            16.4       15.7         32.1
Technical Assistance                      -          3.0         3.0
Training                                             0.5         0.5
Equipment                                 -          1.5         1.5
Customer Conversion                      2.6        13.8        16.4
LPG and Energy Pricing Studies            -          1.2         1.2
Taxes and Duties                        11.9          -         11.9
Base Cost                            30.9       35.7         66.6
Physical Contingencies                   3.1        3.6          6.7
Price Contingencies                      5.4        7.3         12.7
Total Project Cost                   39.4       46.6         86.0
Financing Plan:                              Local      Foreign     Total
------…US$ million--------
IBRD                                      _        34.0         34.0
Bilateral Assistance                      -         3.8          3.8
PGN Internal Cash Generation             6.5         -           6.5
GOI Equity Contributions                18.3                    1R.3
Commercial Loans                        10.4         -          10.4
Consumers                                4.2        8.8         13.0
Total                                39.4       46.6         86.0



Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year  1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
…-------US$ million…-----------
Annual              4.8      9.5     8.8      5.8     3.4      1.7
Cummulative         4.8    14.3    23.1    28.9    32.3    34.0
Economic Rate of Return:  About 31%
Maps: 19437
19438
19439
19440



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE SECTOR                .............................................                1
Introduction ...............                                                        1
Primary Energy Resourcs Development  .                   ..............             1
Power ...            .......          .............                                 3
Energy Pricing  .......               .............................                 3
Sector Organization and Institutions                      ..............           4
The Natural Gas Subsector  .....                  ....................             4
Bank Role and Lending Strategy  .................                .. .               6
II.   THE BENEFICIARY  ........................................                              6
Background  ........................................                               6
Statutory Functions                  ...............................                7
Organization  ...................                  ...................             8
Proposed Reorganization  ...........................                               8
Technical Assistance Requirements  .........                     ........           9
Manpower Requirements and Training  ................                              10
Accounts  .......................                 ...................             10
Audit  ........................................................                   11
Budgeting  ........................................                               11
Billing and Collection  .....                 .......................             12
Insurance  .........................................                              12
III.   THE PROJECT  ............................................                             12
Project Background    .                  ..................                       12
Project Objectives  and Rationale  ..............                  ....           12
Project Description  .......            .......................                   15
Project Design Parameters  .....                ....................              17
Project Costs               .....................................                 20
Financing Plan                ....................................                21
Project  Implementation  ...            ...........................               21
Procurement  ....             ...................................                 23
Disbursement  ............................................                        24
Ecology and  Safety  .            ...............................                 25
Reporting Requirements  ......               ......................               25
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited Indonesia in
July 1985 and was prepared by Messrs H. Hamaguchi, S. Khwaja, J-P. Pinard,
M. Sergo and J. Smith of the Energy Department.



Page No.
IV.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS ....................... . ... ..........   25
Past Results ........ ................. * * * .. * .* ....  26
Present Financial Position ..........................    27
Valuation of Assets .... .... .......................    27
Gas Tariffs .....................................................  28
Financial Projections .. ...................             29
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds      ...............  30
Financial Analysis of the Project    .................   31
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis       .....................  32
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND PROJECT RISKS    ................   33
Economic Evaluation of the Project .............. ..     33
Project Risks ....    .................................  36
VI. AGREEMENTS  .............................................    37
ANNEXES
1.01   Gas Sector Data - Estimated Gas Reserves
1.02   Gas Sector Data - Historical Gas Production
1.03   Gas Sector Data - Gas Production/Utilization Balance - 1984
1.04   Gas Sector Data - Pattern of Gas Utilization - 1983
2.01   PGN Operations and Organization
2.02   Implementation and Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference
3.01   Gas Supply/Demand Balance in West Java
4.01   Gas Market - Fuel Use by Small & Medium Industry in Jakarta
4.02   Gas Market - Composition of Projected New Gas Sales
5.01   System Design
5.02   Phasing of Expenditures
5.03   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.04   Progress Reporting Requirements
6.01   Past and Forecast Income Statements of PGN
6.02   Past and Forecast Balance Sheets of PGN
6.03   Past and Forecast Sources and Applications Statements of PGN
6.04   Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
6.05   Financial Internal Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
6.06   Risk Analysis - Monte Carlo Simulation
7.01   Economic Analysis
7.02   Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis
7.03   Fiscal Impact of Project
8.01   Energy Pricing Policy Study - Terms of Reference
8.02   Domestic and Economic Prices of Petroleum Products
9.01   List of Documents in Project File
MAPS
General   IBRD 19437 .....................................
City-wise IBRD 19438 .....................................
IBRD 19439 .....................................
IBRD 19440 .....................................



I - THE SECTOR
Introduction
1.01     Indonesia is a country richly endowed with diversified energy
resources. However, virtually all of its energy requirements are met from
two sources: indigenous oil, which is also a major source of foreign exchange,
and biomass, although the energy resource base of the country also includes
natural gas, which is exported in large volumes as LNG (liquefied natural
gas), coal, hydroelectric power and geothermal energy, all in substantial
quantities. Indonesia has so far made relatively little use of its non-oil
energy resources to meet domestic needs, and the modern sectors of the economy
are essentially geared towards the consumption of oil products, while the
rural economy is still heavily dependent on biomass fuels. However, the
changing international environment over the last decade has prompted the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) to reconsider the use and allocation of its
vast energy resources and, more generally, the role energy should play in the
economic development process.
1.02     The optimum development of Indonesia's energy resources calls for
the exploitation of a broader range of energy sources and a reduction in the
preponderant role of oil products in the economy. Long-term oil production
constraints and uncertainties regards the future oil market also make
diversification of energy sources desireable. Against this background and
in the interest of mitigating the decline in oil export revenues that has
taken place in recent years, the Government has made energy conservation and
diversification two of its major objectives. Large amounts of funds are
being allocated to coal and hydroelectric power development. Despite the
potentially large economic benefits that could be derived from expanded gas
consumption, progress has been slow in this area.
Primary Energy Resource Development
1.03     Much of the development of Indonesia's energy resources reflects its
singular geographic setting -- an archipelago consisting of five main islands
and literally thousands of smaller ones. The spatial dispersion of the
centers of economic activity and energy resources imposes severe limits on the
use of the country's energy potential and explains much of its past reliance
on oil. In sharp contrast, the need for major infrastructure investments
remains a major obstacle to the development of coal and natural gas. The
export of natural gas as LNG has been a striking exception to this general
picture, benefitting from a ready market - Japan - and from the Government's
ability to work out suitable arrangements with the oil industry to take
advantage of this unparalleled opportunity.
1.04     Oil.  Oil dominates the Indonesian economy, accounting for about 80%
of commercial energy consumption and 70% of export earnings as well as of
Government revenues. Cumulative production as of January 1983 was about 10
billion barrels. Over the past five years, oil production has declined from
about 1.6 million barrels per day (bblJd) in 1978 to 1.3 million bbl/d in 1984
in response to changing world market conditions and lower OPEC quotas. Esti-
mates of oil reserves are inevitably subject to large uncertainties.
Remaining proven oil reserves are reported to be about five billion barrels,
with the possibility of adding another seven billion barrels from existing and



new discoveries by the year 2000. These reserves could support a moderate
growth in annual production (current production capacity is estimated at 1.6
million bblWd). However, without unexpected new finds, production will then
start to tail off. This long-term production constraint, together with
continuing uncertainty in world market conditions, underscores the importance
of diversifying Indonesia's primary energy sources. Exploration activity has
recently shown a downturn following the country's most active period from 1980
to 1983. While the slowdown in the interest of oil companies may, to a large
extent, reflect world-wide trends, a revision of incentives provided to
industry and the pace at which new acreage is being offered is probably needed
if Indonesia is to increase or maintain its production potential.
1.05     Natural Gas.  Indonesia has considerable gas resources with recover-
able reserves estimated at about 80 trillion standard cubic feet (tcf).
Natural gas was originally produced in Indonesia as associated gas in the
production of crude oil. Several large-scale gas fields were discovered
during the seventies and now Indonesia has reserves of gas comparable to its
oil reserves. The bulk of this gas is non-associated and consequently can be
developed independently of the level of oil production.
1.06     Coal.  Indonesia's coal reserves are believed to be in excess of 10
billion tons, located primarily in west and south Sumatra and Kalimantan.
While current production of about 450,000 tons per year (tpy) is still well
below the peak levels achieved in the 1940s (2 million tpy), major projects
have been undertaken to increase production. Coal is expected to become the
major source of fuel for the power sector in the 1990s. Work started in 1982
on a 3.0 million tpy mine at Bukit Asam in south Sumatra and on a 0.6 million
tpy mine at the nearby Muara Tiga coal field. A program to raise coal
production at Ombilin in west Sumatra to 1.3 million tpy is also being
implemented. In addition, in 1981, the Government entered into a number
of production-sharing agreements with private foreign and Indonesian joint-
venture companies for exploration and exploitation of the Kalimantan coal
reserves. Exploration is now in progress.
1.07     Hydroelectricity.  Indonesia's total hydroelectric resources are
large, but development is limited by their geographic distribution relative to
demand. The greatest hydropower potential (over 35%) is in Irian Jaya where
electricity demand is less than one percent of total domestic demand. On the
other hand, less than 10% of the total potential is in Java, which accounts
for 80% of the current electricity demand. Existing hydroelectric installa-
tions have an aggregate capacity of about 1,300 MW. Schemes with an addi-
tional combined generating capacity of about 1,500 MW are currently under
construction.
1.08     Geothermal Energy.  Surface manifestations of geothermal energy are
found on all islands except Kalimantan, but only a few sites have been inves-
tigated and only one, Kamojang in west Java, has been developed. It is
believed that potential reserves may approach 10,000 MW distributed as
follows: Java 5,500 MW; Sulawesi 1,400 MW; Sumatra 1,100 MW; other islands
2,000 MW. GOI, in collaboration with the Government of New Zealand, initiated
the development of the Kamojang field in 1976. The first 30 MW generating set
was commissioned for commercial operation in January 1983; the Twelfth Power
Project (Loan 2214-IND) provides for the expansion of the station by 110 MW.
In 1982, Pertamina (the state oil and gas company) entered into a joint



operating contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of Union Oil of
California, for the development of the Salak field in west Java. Exploration
is in progress. Overall, however, utilization of geothermal energy is limited
in relation to its potential. To accelerate the pace of development, the
Government has announced its intention of leasing other sites to international
investors, but the response appears to be limited. A major impediment to
geothermal development has been the lack of a clear policy in setting the
transfer price of geothermal steam to the power utility. There is a need for
the Government to revise its pricing formula (based on the economic value of
steam, i.e. the marginal cost of fuel for baseload generation) and work out
the implications of this revised formula on the package of incentives offered
to industry for geothermal exploration and development.
1.09     Biomass.  Annual availability of biomass - mostly by-products or
wastes from agriculture and forestry - is estimated at about 17 million tons.
Approximately 80% of rural households depend on firewood and biomass as
cooking fuels. However, deforestation has become an acute problem in Java.
Development of biomass potential for increased domestic consumption will
require a major organizational effort at the grassroots level to increase
planting of fast-growing bush species on waste land, develop systematic col-
lection of agricultural wastes, construct facilities for energy conversion,
and develop a distribution network.
Power
1.10     A key Government objective is to improve and expand the supply and
distribution of electricity in rural and urban areas. The state electricity
company (PIN) has about 3,300 MW of installed capacity and operates over
8,000 km of transmission lines and about 35,000 km of distribution lines, the
bulk of which are in Java. In addition, large captive generation units,
accounting for about 40% of total capacity, have been deveLoped over time to
supplement the shortage of generating capacity in the public system.
Indonesia's electricity consumption (about 140 KWh per capita) is low in
relation to its income level and plans have been made for a rapid increase in
generation capacity. Under these plans, electricity consumption is expected
to increase at an average annual rate of about 9% p.a. over the next ten
years. About half of public investment in the energy sector is now directed
to the electricity subsector. Substitution of captive power is a major aspect
of the strategy pursued by PLN. About 80 percent of existing capacity is
based on the use of petroleum fuels. However, large coal-fired thermal units
are being installed with Bank assistance and coal is planned to become the
major source of fuel for new power generation by the end of the decade.
Energy Pricing
1.11     Until recently, low petroleum product prices impeded maximum economic
efficiency. The Bank, through its economic and sector work, has had a con-
tinuous dialogue with the Government on energy pricing issues and highlighted
the consequences of Government pricing policies. In 1983, the Bank prepared a
study entitled "Indonesia - Selected Issues of Energy Pricing Policy" (Report
No. 4285-IND) to analyze the policy options available to the Government and
their implications. Over the last three years, GOI has taken bold steps to
increase the domestic price of petroleum fuels and eliminate subsidies. As a
result, fuel prices are now above international levels with the exception of



- 4 -
kerosene, which is still subsidized for social reasons (see Annex 8.02).
ELectricity tariffs were increased by over 200X on average between 1981 and
1984 and are now comparable to those prevailng in the region and within 10-
15Z of estimated long-run marginal costs. The pricing of natural gas is
discussed in para 1.17.
Sector Organization and Institutions
1.12     The principal agency responsible for the development and implementa-
tion of Government policies in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and
Energy which was established in 1978 to coordinate and supervise the activi-
ties of the public and quasi-public enterprises operating in the sector,
namely: Pertamina, which has overall responsibility for the development of
oil, gas and geothermal energy; PNB and PTBA for coal mining and development;
PLN for electricity; and PGN for gas distribution. Other ministries and
agencies are also involved in the sector. For example, the Ministry for
Public Works, which deals with hydropower resource surveys; the Ministry of
Agriculture, which oversees forestry products; and Batan, the national atomic
energy commission.  Coordination of energy policy ha; been given added impetus
by the creation through presidential decree in 1980 of a cabinet level
interministerial coordinating body, the National Energy Coordinating Board
(Bakoren). An energy planning unit has also been established recently in the
Ministry of Mines and Energy.
The Natural Gas Subsector
1.13     Indonesia has considerable gas resources, with estimated recoverable
reserves of about 80 tcf. The Government has so far given priority to the use
of gas for LNG export projects and, in the case of associated gas, for oil
field maintenance to the extent possible. Other important uses of gas are in
steel and fertilizer production. In view of the continuation of gas disco-
veries but limited additional opportunities for export of LNG, the Government
is presently reviewing this general policy. To this end it has commissioned,
with IDA assistance, three studies intended to provide guidance in designing
an appropriate investment strategy and policy framework for the gas sector:
(i) a Gas Utilization Study to assess, in a long term perspective, the
potential for expanded use of natural gas domestically; (ii) a City Gas
Distribution Study to assess the potential for expanded gas distribution to
small and medium industries, commercial entities and households in urban
areas; and (iii) an LPG Feasibility Study to evaluate the economic viability
of distributing LPG more widely for domestic uses. The Government is now
reviewing the results of these studies. This process is expected to lead to
major modifications in the gas sector development strategy, which should in
the future give priority to gas utilization in the power, industrial and
commercial sectors as a substitute for liquid fuels.
1.14     Reserves.  The largest gas reserves have been discovered in the
Natuna L'fshore area in the South China Sea (40 tcf), and the Badak region in
east Ka-imantan (17 tcf), and the Arun region in north Sumatra (14 tcf). The



- 5 -
world's two largest operational LNG projects are at Badak operated by Huffco,
and at Arun operated by Mobil. Other regions with major proven gas reserves
are south Sumatra (6 tcf) and west Java (2 tcf).
1.15     Gas Utilization.  Industrial use of natural gas has grown steadily
over time but is still very low relative to its economic potential. The first
major industrial use was as feedstock for urea production at the Pusri
fertilizer plant in south Sumatra in 1963. In 1970, LPG and carbon black
plants were constructed in Rantau, north Sumatra. With the commencement of
LNG production in Badak (1977) and Arun (1978), consumption of natural gas
grew rapidly. Total production reached 1.2 tcf in 1983, of which field use
(gas lift and gas injection) accounted for 22%, LNG production for 43Z, and
flared gas for 12%.  The remaining 23Z is used domestically by various
industrial users (including gas used as fuel gas), and city distribution
systems.
1.16     The Government's attention has so far been mainly motivated by the
prospects for LNG export. It has been extremely successful in this area,
having developed with the assistance of international oil companies (IOCs) the
largest LNG projects in the world and, in doing so, pioneered new forms
of contracts with IOCs. However, the potential for further expansion of LNG
exports (beyond projects already planned) appears limited and, in any case,
well below the country's gas production potential, thus leaving a substantial
surplus production capacity available for the domestic market. Actually, the
recent Cas Utilization Study indicates that many domestic applications, such
as natural gas used as fuel for power generation and in industry where gas
substitutes directly for liquid fuels, would likely yield greater economic
benefits to the country than LNG export. These conclusions have added impetus
to the Government's decision to review its gas policy with a view to giving
natural gas a major role in its energy diversification strategy. Some of
these recommendations, such as accelerating the development of gas reserves in
Java and some areas of Sumatra to convert power stations and city gas systems
(including local industries) from liquid fuels to natural gas, should be given
high priority. Recommendations on longer-term investments to ensure long-term
supplies, suca as the construction of a transmission system linking Java to a
gas surplus area (e.g. Kalimantan), will require, because of their magnitude,
close review and further study.
1.17     Natural Gas Pricing.  Gas tariffs vary according to end-users and
reflect the Government's development priorities (e.g. to promote the pro-
duction of steel and fertilizer) which may not fully reflect economic
principles based on the opportunity cost of gas in each area; they are, in
general, not designed to encourage gas production for domestic use. Tariffs
vary from US$.57/mcf for fertilizer (Pusri) and US$.65/mcf for steel
(Krakatau) to about US$3/mcf for power generation, cement and city gas.
Clearly, considerable review and eventual revision of Government policies is
in order in the area of pricing, since the setting of proper price signals is
essential to the success of the gas utilization strategy being formulated by
the Government. GOI is aware that an appropriate pricing strategy should
promote economic efficiency in the allocation of natural gas across sectors
and provide adequate incentives to the oil industry to develop gas reserves
for the domestic market. At the Government's request, the proposed project
will include an energy pricing policy study designed to establish guiding
principles for setting natural gas prices at the producer and the consumer



-6-
levels in relation to the price of alternative fuel sources (i.e. petroleum
products and coal). This study is expected to provide the necessary back-
ground for a review of the complex issues involved and will form the basis for
subsequent dialogue between the Bank and the Government on pricing matters.
Bank Role and Lending Strategy
1.18     The Bank has a long-established involvement in the Indonesian power
subsector, with fourteen approved operations since 1969. The first comprehen-
sive involvement of the Bank in the energy sector began with the Energy
Assessment Report of 1981. This report aimed to identify policy options, rank
investment priorities, promote a framework for technical assistance and advise
GOI on the policy and institutional aspects of the sector. The report con-
firmed earlier findings that alternative energy sources could be developed
economically and should be developed quickly to replace oil consumed domes-
tically in view of limited oil reserves and in order to maintain potential oil
exports. Major changes in sector policies have since been introduced by GOI,
particularly with regard to coal development (especially for use in the power
sector) and petroleum product pricing.
1.19     The Bank has maintained a continuous dialogue with GOI on the issue
of gas utilization through the supervision of the three gas studies referred
to in para 1.13. The results of these studies are now becoming available and
are being reviewed by GOI. The resulcs of the gas utilization study indicate
that there is scope for gas development for domestic use which would avoid
further claims on oil and complement current coal investments. While a com-
prehensive gas development plan would require further analysis (in particular,
a feasibility study of major pipeline projects designed to link gas-surplus
areas to key demand centers), a number of specific investments have been
identified which would yield quick economic benefits and help Indonesia
strengthen its expertise in gas development, partly through tne channelling of
the necessary technical assistance. The Gas Distribution Project discussed in
this report, which would be the first Bank operation in the petroleum sector,
is in support of such a high priority investment. The remaining issues in the
gas sector are essentially to assess the long-term potential for gas in the
economy, in particular for power generation beyond the conversion of the
existing oil-based power plants and gas turbines; to demonstrate the
feasibility of specific gas development projects and formulate an overall
development strategy to meet this potential; and to establish coherent
investment and pricing policies in support of this strategy. The proposed
project would assist GOI in rationalizing its primary energy pricing policy.
It will also serve as a vehicle for further dialogue with the Government on
the broader sectoral issues as GOI develops a policy and institutional
framework for the development of the gas sector.
II - THE BENEFICIARY
Background
2.01     Manufactured gas for city distribution was first introduced in Jakarta
in 1863, and subsequently in Surabaya, Bandung and Ujung Pandang. Gas was
then produced by coal gasification. After the second world war, all gas works
were consolidate4fiznder a single company, N.V. OGEM, of Dutch ownership.
.



-7-
Oil progressivelv replaced coal as the feedstock for gasification. In 1958,
OGEM's activities were nationalized and Laken over by a newly created state
gas utility subsequently called Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (PGN). As natural
gas became available in west Java, several local distribution systems were
wholly or partially converted to natural gas: Cirebon in 1976, Jakarta in 1979
and Bogor in 1982. In Medan natural gas is now available at the city gate
station and a few industrial consumers are expected to be connected in the
near future. In other cities namely, Bandung, Semarang, Surabaya, Ujung
Pandang and also in Medan, manufactured gas is still being supplied. In all,
PGN is distributing natural and manufactured gas in eight cities: Jakarta,
Bogor, Bandung, Cirebon, Semarang and Surabaya in Java, Medan in north Sumatra
and Ujung Pandang in Sulawesi. For the fiscal year 84/85 PGN's sales amounted
to 95 million cubic meters (mmcm), equivalent to an average of 7.4 million
standard cubic feet per day (mmcfd), the sales mix being 70% natural gas and
30% manufactured gas. Pertainina is the exclusive supplier of natural gas to
PGN.
2.02     Under a Government Regulation of 1984, PGN was turned into a Public
Corporation (Perusahaan Umum or Perum) which gives it some operating autonomy
within the Government regulations but restricts capital ownership to the
Government. PGN - like many gas utilities around the world - has experienced
the difficulties of supplying manufactured gas in competition with cheaper and
more flexible fuels, e.g. LPG and oil. Traditionally, PGN has been supplying
gas to a predominantly hcusehold market in the older parts of the cities.
With such a restricted domestic market, increasing production costs and little
prospect for large industrial and commercial loads, inadequate attention has
been paid to the development and main:tenance of the supply systems which, in
certain areas, are in a state of total disrerair. Gas leakages from corroded
pipelines are widespread, resulting in gas losses equivalent to about 30% of
sales volume. Apart from causing a significant loss of revenue, such leakages
are very hazardous to the local p, pulation. Major replacement and rectific-
ation work would be required to reduce the gas loss to acceptable limits (0.5Z
to 2%). Conversion of new customers to natural gas can provide the much
needed opportunities, impetus and means to reverse the decline in PGN "
operational efficiency. It is a classic case of the need to find new products
and markets, i.e. to supplv natural gas to a large number of small and medium-
sized industries in the existing areas of operations.
Statutory Functions
2.03     The main functions of PGN under its charter of creation are as
follows:
(i)    production, delivery, supply and distribution of manufactured
gas;
(ii)    supply and distribution of natural gas on a limited scale!/;
1/ There is an informal understanding that bulk consumers such as power
plants, cement plants, fertilizer factories, etc. are supplied directly by
Pertamina except when agreed otherwise.



- 8 -
(iii)    planning and construction of natural gas distribution systems;
and
(iv)    provision of services associated with the supply of gas and gas
by-products.
Organization
2.04     PGN, under its statutes, is managed by a Board of Directors, which is
composed of a President Director and a maximum of four Directors appointed by
the President of the Republic on the recomendation of the Minister of Mines
and Energy. The President Director acts on behaLf of the Board of Directors
in the conduct of day-to-day business, in accordance with an appropriate
delegation of authority. The Corporation, as a state-owned enterprise, is
functionally and administratively responsible to the Government through the
Minister of Mines and Energy and the Minister of Finance. The Board of
Directors is entrusted, under its statutes and within the guidelines set by
the Minister of Mines and Energy, to draw up the annual work plan and budget,
appoint and discharge employees, establish pay scales and determine the
numbers/categories of staff required. The performance of the Corporation is
periodically reviewed by a Board of Supervisors. This Board, also appointed
by the President of the Republic, comprises senior staff of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy and the Ministry of Finance. PGN is also bound by a number
of Government procedures affecting all public sector enterprises.
Proposed Reorganization
2.05     PGN is organized geographically through regional branches with a
central office located in Jakarta responsible for central systems and
planning. The President Director is the Chief Executive Officer. He is
assisted by a Director Operations, a Director Finance & General Affairs and
an Internal Auditor. The Director Operations is responsible for marketing,
planning and design, and operation of the distribution systems. The Director
Finance & General Affairs is responsible for finance, personnel management,
general administration, stores and procurement. The operations in each city
are managed by a branch office headed by a Branch Manager. Branch Managers
are assisted by operations engineers, accountants and administrative offi-
cers. Branch Managers are administratively and operationally responsible to
the President Director but maintain functional liaison with the Director
Operations and Director Finance & General Affairs. Construction work in each
city is managed by a Projects Manager, who is also administratively respons-
ible to the President Director but maintains functional links with the Branch
Manager, Director Operations, and Director Finance & General Affairs.
2.06     The existing corporate structure is not satisfactory in that the
span of control under the President Director is excessively large, leaving
insufficient responsibility at the Director level. This tends to lead to
conflict of objectives, diffused accountability, insufficient feedback and
weak management. PGN recognizes the need to provide for a better distribution
of responsibilities and clearer definition of lines of control and has agreed
to restructure the organization of the company, placing greater emphasis on
the functions that require strengthening, i.e. project management, marketing
and assistance to conversion. Under the proposed reorganization, the



-9-
President Director will be assisted by three Directors responsible for:
(i) marketing and system operations (Director Operations); (ii) planning &
design, procurement of material and construction management (Director
Development); and (iii) finance, personnel management, general administration
and stores (Director Finance and Administration), respectively; and the
Internal Auditor. Similarly at the next lower level, the three Directors will
be assisted by sub-directors, each responsible for a major function or a group
of smaller functions. The Branch Managers will be responsible to the Director
Operations and the Project Managers to the Director Development. The proposed
organization chart, as agreed with PGN, is given in Annex 2.01. Approval of
the proposed reorganization by the Borrower is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Loan.
Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
2.07     Although PGN has been in the gas distribution business for a long
time, it has failed so far to seize the opportunities presented by the growing
demand for natural gas from private industries and other commercial entities.
It has lagged behind in upgrading its management and technical expertise to
meet the challenge of capturing this new market segment and, as a result, has
become a "neglected institution" in an era where Indonesia's development was
essentially geared towards the production and us- of oil products. The
project would entail a manyfold increase in PGN's gas sales. To reach this
target PGN will require considerable institutional strengthening, which will
involve upgrading its technical know-how in modern gas distribution systems,
training of staff and build-up of management capabilities to enable it to
discharge its expanded responsibilities efficiently. The areas where PGN has
critical weaknesses include demand forecasting and evaluation, system planning
and design, project cost monitoring, industrial gas utilization, maintenance,
and management control systems. PGN is aware of the need to acquire expertise
in these areas in order to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by
this project and develop into a modern and efficient gas utility. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that PCN will furnish a detailed
training program to the Bank for review by March 31, 1987, identifying staff
to be trained, areas of training, schedules and locations.
2.08     The means of bringing about the necessary changes in the institution
will be through an operating relationship ("twinning") with an experienced
foreign gas utility who can provide the required broad-based package of tech-
nical assistance in key operational areas. This is expected to be a more
effective means of delivering technical assistance and building up management
and operating capabilities than the alternative of designing discrete
technical assistance packages to deal with different disciplines and hiring
consultants to assist in their implementation. The twinning option with an
experienced operating gas utility will provide opportunities to integrate
know-how transfer and staff training on site in the course of project
implementation. Twinning will also keep the work program flexible over time
and allow for the possibility of a long-term cooperative relationship.
Finally, it will have the considerable advantage of exposing PGN to an
experienced operating organization, a dimension that individual consulting
firms lack. Thus, the entity providing the assistance will be able to draw
upon its own in-house resources in functional areas relevant to PGN's needs.
Also, PGN staff will be expected to be able to turn to the twinning entity as
a source of information and advice for many years after the formal contract



- 10 -
has expired. PGN has realized the advantages of receiving technical
assistance through a twinning arrangement involving a long term collaboration
agreement. Terms of reference agreed with PGN are in Annex 2.02. The
Government indicated its support for this approach. PGN has taken steps
towards the selection and appointment of a twinning agency, which is expected
to be in place before implementation of the project starts. Funding is
expected to be made available from concessional bilateral aid sources. The
execution of a twinning agreement acceptable to the Bank with an experienced
foreign gas utility is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
Manpower Requirements and Training
2.09     PGN employs a staff in excess of 900, of which about 540 are
professionals. PGN's staff appears adequate in terms of number, considering
the current workload and the fact that virtually all construction work is
undertaken by contractors. PGN would however need to employ some additional
staff (about 100 professionals) to handle the expanded functions of work
planning, construction supervision, material control, quality control, and
marketing. Recruitment of this staff may pose some problems due to the
limited availability of experienced professionals in the country and the
relatively inferior pay scale of PGN. The professionals already employed with
PGN also require further training. Under these circumstances, the best course
of action is to provide on-the-job training to the professionals to be
recruited and those already employed. Suitable provision for this purpose has
been made in the terms of reference for the twinning agency. In step with the
implementation of the prject, a core of skilled technicians (about 100 in
number) and middle level managers (about 30 in number) is expected to be
developed, which will give PGN the capability of generating the necessary
manpower for further expansion. PGN pay scale was until recently markedly
below that of similar public sector corporations (e.g. PLN). PGN pay scale
was raised in 1985 and is now basically in line with relevant comparators.
However, in order to retain sufficiently qualified staff, PGN pay scale should
not be allowed to slip again behind that of other public sector corpora-
tions. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI will allow PGN
to maintain its pay scale at a level as remunerative as to that offered by
similar public corporations (Perums).
Accounts
2.10     PGN's accounts are maintained in accordance with the "Indonesian
Accounting Principles" issued in 1983, the relevant parts of the Government's
1984 regulations on public corporations, the 1984 Government decree converting
PGN into a public corporation, and the instructions from PGN management on
specific accounting procedures. Each branch office is expected to send a
monthly financial report (mainly income statement) to the head office within
25 days of the close of the month for consolidation, as well as an annual
report within two months of the close of PGN's fiscal year. PGN's annual
consolidated statements are generally completed within three months of the
close of its fiscal year as required for tax purposes. PGN's Board of
Directors is required to submit the annual financial statements to concerned
Government agencies (including the State Audit Board) within six months of the



- 11 -
close of its fiscal year. Furthermore, PGN's Board of Supervisors submits
quarterly and annual reports to the Ministries of Mines and Energy and of
Finance.
2.11     The accounts of each branch office are supervised by a certified
bookkeeper and the timeliness and accuracy of reporting is generally satis-
factory. On the whole, PGN's accounting system follows generally accepted
principles and utility practices. However, the accounting process is still
very labor intensive. Computerization of certain accounting routines, e.g.
billing, wages, and stores, is required to permit PGN to expand its operations
in an efficient way. PGN's management has formed a team within PGN to study
the feasibility of computerization. The terms of reference for the twinning
agency provide for further assistance to PGN in that area.
Audit
2.12     According to its 1984 charter, PGN's accounts are audited by
Government auditors: the Financial and Development Supervisor Board (BPKP),
and, if serious reasons so indicate, the State Board of Auditors (BPK). For
projects financed by the Government, the Technical Department of the Ministry
of Mines and Energy also carries out project audits. PGN's internal audit
unit reports directly to its Board of Directors and consists currently of five
officers. External audits are carried out following generally accepted audit
practices and PGN's audit arrangements on the whole are satisfactory.
HLwever, audit reports are often finalized late, about a year after closing of
PGN's fiscal year. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PGN
will provide the Bank with its unaudited annual financial statements within
six months of the end of its fiscal year, and the corresponding a'tdit report
within nine months after the end of its fiscal year.
Budgeting
2.13     Under its charter, PGN is required to submit its project and operat-
ing budgets to its Supervisory Board for review and to the Ministries of Mines
and Energy and of Finance for approval. Budgets have to be submitted at least
three months before the start of the budget year. If the Government does not
object to PGN's budget before the budget year begins, the budget is imple-
mented as submitted. Supplementary or amended budgets may be submitted during
a budget year following the same procedures as for the annual budgets. As a
public corporation, PGN can redistribute amounts between different headings in
its operating budget on directives from its Board of Directors. The budget
procedures prescribed for PGN are reasonably flexible and should be adequate
for carrying out the proposed project. However, PGN's internal procedures for
preparing its development budget and monitoring actual expenditures could be
improved. The twinning agency is expected to assist PGN in improving its
technical planning, while the reorganization of PGN will lead to a better
definition of responsibilities for project budgets and monitoring. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that PGN will submit a copy of its
annual investment program to the Bank not later than January of each year
preceeding the budget year.



- 12 -
Billing and Collection
2.14     PGN bills its customers monthly and gas bills generally reach the
customers within a month after the close of the billing period. Bills are
prepared with the help of obsolete office machines with insufficient memory
capacity to provide monthly summaries for accounting purposes. These
summaries are, therefore, prepared manually. Adequate office machines for
billing purposes have been provided for under the project. Customers
generally pay their gas bills within one month after receipt, as required by
PGN, and at the end of FYs 84-86, the value of outstanding bills equalled
about two months of billing, which is satisfactory. The number of unpaid
bills is insignificant and PGN's current provision for bad debts of Rp 300
million appears adequate for its purpose.
Insurance
2.15     Since PGN's assets are spread over eight different cities, any single
loss would be relatively small in comparison with total assets and opera-
tions. PGN, therefore, does not carry a comprehensive insurance coverage
except for motor vehicles and materials in transit. During project appraisal
Bank staff stressed upon PGN the need for it to review its risk exposure in
view of the future increase in assets and operations. PGN was also advised
that, in accordance with the Bank's policy, all materials and equipment
financed under the Bank Loan will have to be fully insured while in transit
and under installation. Assurances that PGN will review the adequacy of its
insurance coverage by June 30, 1987, and discuss the results of such review
with the Bank were obtained during negotiations.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Background
3.01     The Bank's association with the gas sector started with the initia-
tion and supervision of the three studies referred to in para 1.13, which were
prompted by the need to diversify domestic energy supplies away from liquid
fuels if oil was to remain an important source of foreign exchange earnings in
the late 1980's and 1990's. Their primary objective was to establish whether
there was a basis for using natural gas more widely to meet the energy
requirements of domestic users, in particular small/medium industry and power
generation. The studies have now demonstrated that such a strategy, which
would complement GOI's current approach of gas use for LNG exports, fertilizer
production, and other large-scale industrial applications, should be nursued
but that its implementation will require institutional and policy chaniges.
Project Objectives and Rationale
3.02     The Bank's main objective in the sector is to help bring about institu-
tional changes and policy modifications in order to facilitate the penetration
of natural gas in the domestic economy. The proposed project would be the
first Bank operation in Indonesia's gas sector and the first step towards this
goal. It was conceived as a follow-up to the City Gas Distribution Study,
which was carried out by Osaka Gas Engineering Co., Ltd. (OGE) of Japan. The
main operational focus of the project would be on strengthening PGN, the
existing gas utility, which will be the entity ultimately responsible for
distribution of natural gas to private commercial and industrial consumers



- 13 -
(while bulk users are supplied directly by Pertamina). The means of bringing
about the necessary changes in the institution would be by linking it to an
experienced foreign gas utility capable of providing assistance in key
operational areas. In addition, the project will support GOI's efforts to
improve its energy pricing policy, in particular by setting consumer and
producer prices of natural gas at appropriate leveLs to encourage economic
inter-fuel substitution and expansion of gas supplies, respectiveLy.
3.03     Specifically, the objectives of the project will be:
(a) to encourage the use of natural gas by small and medium-sized
industries, thus ensuring the utilization of gas in a high-value
market, by constructing new gas distribution facilities;
(b) to replace and/or rehabilitate portions of PGN's existing gas
distribution networks, which are unsafe and subject to
substantial leakage;
(c) to build up the managerial and technical capabilities of PGN to
plan and implement system expansion and operate its networks
efficiently and cost effectively;
(d) to establish duplicable technological standards on which to base
future expansions of existili gas distribution networks, or the
creation of new ones, as natural gas becomes more widely
available; and
se) to support GOI's efforts in the review and modification of
sector policies, particularly with regard to energy pricing.
3.04     The principal justification for the project investment is that it
will help bring about a high value use of gas in Indonesia.  The use oG  gas
in small and medium-sized industry in west Java is expected to yield an
economic (netback) value to the country of up to US$5 per mmbtu depending
on the type of industry (as opposed to an estimated production cost of
US$1.5/mmbtu, and netback values of about US$2.5/mmbtu in the cement industry,
and US$2.4(7imbtu in power generation, which would be the alternative uses for
this gas.)- The proposed project will provide the necessary infrastruc-
ture to allow the use of gas in such industries in the main Jakarta-Bogor
industrial area in west Java, and in Medan in north Sumatra. The choice of
these ti -ecities reflects the availability of natural gas in their
resy?ctive area; other cities where PGN is operating rely on manufactured
gas- which, No-ause of high production costs and the absence of cheaper
supply alternatives, prevents market expansion outside the household sector.
In PGN areas outside Jakarta, Bogor and Medan, che projoct will reduce gas
losses and improve safety aspects. Gas used in industries will replace
1/ These netback values are calculated on the basis of price forecasts over
the period 1987-2005 for the petroleum products that would be substituted by
natural gas, taking into account the relative thermal effi:iency of natural
gas and alternative fuels in various applications (see Chapter V and Annex
7.02 for details).
2/ Except for Cirebon where PGN distributes small quantities of natural gas.



- 14 -
diesel, fuel oil, and LPG, which could be exported, and kerosene, which is
currently imported, resulting in potential additional foreign exchange
earnings to the country. In addition, through its focus on gas pricing
policies, the project will contribute to the provision of proper incentives
for efficient and economically appropriate gas use by the private sector.
3.05     The project will also add impetus to Indonesia's proposed gas
utilization strategy by building up PGN as an active marketer of gas to
industry. This important marketing function will be enhanced by the provision
by PGN of technical and financial assistance for the conversion of industrial
plants to natural gas (para 3.11). Furthermore, selective rehabilitation of
the existing distribution systems (coupled with abandonment of uneconomic
sections) will reduce gas losses, improve public safety, and reduce the need
for maintenance and operations of marginal distribution systems, thus allowing
PGN to concentrate its resources on the important task of expanding service to
industrial customers.
3.06     The Bank has played an important role in getting the project under-
way, both by promoting the necessary degree of Government support and by
assisting PGN in all steps of project preparation. In the course of
supervising the gas studies financed by IDA, the Bank has underscored the
desirability of channelling the available volumes of natural gas to high value
consumers in priority, and has outlined the role PGN should play in this
process. Historically, PGN has operated only very limited and antiquated
domestic gas distribution systems, whose expansion and rehabilitation have
been accorded a low priority by the Government, which tended to lend little
credence to PGN as an institution. Without the close cooperation between PGN
and the Bank in the identification of potential markets and in setting up
proper organizational guidelines, it is unlikely that such a major expansion
project could be designed and implemented in the near future. In particular,
the Bank's participation was critical in getting the Government committed
to: (a) the project concept (i.e. allocating gas to the most economic end-
uses and, therefore, making adequate quantities of gas available to PGN); (b)
the necessary technical assistance to strengthen PGN so that it can discharge
its expanded responsibilities efficiently; and (c) the proposed reorganization
of PGN.
3.07     A key aspect of the Bank's role in the project is its contribution
to the design and implementation of the proposed twinning arrangement for PGN.
The Bank is assisting PGN and the Government in structuring this twinning
relationship and will closely supervise its implementation. The Bank is also
assisting PGN in reassessing its organizational structure and staffing, as
discussed in paras 2.06 and 2.09. Implementation of these organizational
changes will be a key project objective. As a result of its experience in
other countries, the Bank is also in a position to provide advice to PGN on
such issues as market targets, mechanisms to assist customers with conversion
(para 3.11), and optimum operating conditions (para 3.14).



- 15 -
Project Description
3.08     Gas Distribution Networks.  The project will support the detailed
design and construction of extensions to PGN's gas distribution networks in
Jakarta, Bogor, and Medan. The existing systems serve only limited areas of
each of these cities, generally providing mixed gas to domestic consumers, and
supplying only a few industrial consumers. The project will include new
supply lines to industriaL and commercial areas, and local distribution within
such areas. Specific items will include design services, construction of
distribution pipelines, regulator stations and customer meter stations, and
installation of monitoring systems wherever economically justified. In
addition, the twinning agency will assist PGN in defining sub-projects in
cities outside the main project areas (i.e. Cirebon, Bandung, Semarang,
Surabaya and Ujung Pandang) with a view to improving the efficiency of the
existing distribution networks in these cities and reducing the currently
substantial gas losses. This task has been included in the terms of reference
for the twinning agency. The Bank will review the technical, economic and
financial justification for such sub-projects before including them in the
prnject. These sub-projects are not expected to exceed a total of US$2.5
million. To ensure the timely completion of this component of the project,
assurances were obtained from PGN during negotiations that the technical,
economic and financial justification for sub-projects to undertake essential
rehabilitation of gas distribution systems outside the main project areas will
be submitted to the Bank for approval not later than December 31, 1987.
3.09     The project, as currently proposed, includes the following:
-    in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan, the laying of supply and feeder
mains to nine areas of industrial and commercial concentration,
and substantial local distribution networks to serve an initial
core group of 350 new industrial consumers and 800 large
commercial consumers;
-    the upgrading of PGN's existing distribution networks to
adequate standards wherever economically justified.
3.10     Technical Assistance and Training.  As discussed in paras 2.07 and
2.08, the project will involve the twinning of PGN with an established gas
utility, which is essential to ensure the successful implementation of the
project and achieve the institution-building objectives which pr-vide the
principal rationale for the Bank involvement. Through the secondment of a
number of professional personnel into selected parallel positions in PGN and
the services of specialized technical personnel on short-term assignment, as
required, the established utility will provide the following services:
-    assistance in detailed project design;
-    back-up support for day-to-day technical and commercial
operations;
-    assistance for customer conversion;
-    design of rehabilitation program for the existing networks;



- 16 -
-    assistance in the design and implementation of systems required
by a commercial gas utility, including operational and main-
tenance standards, project cost monitoring, marketing, and
management information systems, etc..
The project will also include a training program in technical and commercial
operations as discussed in para 2.07.
3.11     Customer Conversion Program.  An important part of the project relates
to the conversion of customer energy equipment. The lack of adequate funding
for this purpose is a limiting factor for conversion to gas. To encourage
the early conversion of industries and maximize project returns, a customer
conversion program will be established and operated by PGN to provide new
industriaL and commerciaL consumers with necessary assistance, if they so
require, in converting their plants to natural gas. The twinning agency will
assist PGN in setting up the conversion program and in its initial operations,
and suitabLe wording for this purpose has been included in the terms of
reference for the twinning agency. This program is considered an important
ingredient of the marketing strategy PGN will need to adopt in the future.
Under the customer conversion program, PGN will assist its potential gas
customers with necessary feasibility studies, cover the cost of conversion
equipment and their installation, and insure and maintain the equipment. The
customer will reimburse PGN over a three year period for the costs of equip-
ment and installation, plus a charge for capital costs, insurance, maintenance
and administration of the program. This charge is currently estimated at
about 25%. Once PGN has recuperated its conversion costs for a particular
customer, ownership of the conversion equipment will be transferred to the
customer. In order to ensure a smooth and early introduction of the customer
conversion program, PGN will prepare and furnish to the Bank, by September 30,
1986, detailed operating procedures for the implementation of the program.
3.12     Studies.  The project will include an Energy Pricing Policy Study
to be undertaken by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Terms of reference for
the study agreed with GOI are attached as Annex 8.01.  The study will be
administered by Migas and monitored by a Steering Committee comprising
representatives of the main agencies involved (Ministry of Mines and Energy,
Pertamina, PLN, coal companies, etc.). The Bank Loan will also include a
provision (US$200,000) to cover the unfinanced portion of the on-going LPG
Feasibility Study carried out by A.D. Little (USA), following the closing of
the Fifth Technical Assistance Credit (IDA Cr. 898-IND), under which the
initial portion of this study was funded. Since the expense involved will
take place before signing of the proposed Loan, provision for retroactive
financing was made for this category (for an amount up to US$200,000 to be
incurred after January 1, 1986).
3.13     In summary, the project will include three main coieponents:
A.    a Gas Distribution and Technical Assistance Component,
involving:
(i)   the laying of about 218 km of high-pressure transmission
pipelines and supply mains including cathodic protection
and about 535 km of medium-pressure polyethylene
distribution pipelines;



- 17 -
(ii)   the construction of ten pressure reducing stations and
odorizing units;
(iii)   the construction of service lines and meter stations for a
core group of approximately 350 industrial, 800 commercial
and 12,700 domestic consumers;
(iv)   provision of a meter maintenance workshop, telecommunica-
tion and pressure/flow monitoring systems, computer and
other office equipment;
(v) twinning with an established gas utility to strengthen
PGN's capability in the areas of demand forecasting, system
planning and design, construction management, system
operation and maintenance, customer conversion, accounting
and management information systems; and
(vi)   training of PGN staff in management, finance, accounting
and engineering by the provision of local and overseas
training, and related equipment and materials.
B.   a Customer Conversion Component, involving the installation of
internal piping and conversion to natural gas of customers'
appliances and equipment.
C.   Studies, including:
i)  an Energy Pricing Policy Study to be carried out by the
Ministry of Mines and Energy; and
{ii)   remaining work on the on-going LPG Feasibility Study.
Project Design Parameters
Ci) Technology
3.14     In the course of project implementation, the issue of adequate
technology, and particularly that of the maximum admissible pressure in
the distribution systems, had to be addressed. The coultants (OGE) had
recommended a four-stage pressure system (i.e. 16 bars.= for tyansmission
lines, 10 bars for supply mains, 1 bar for feeders and 12" AqZ for distri-
bution pipelines combing the localities), which would have implied a large
number of pressure reducing stations and several pipe diameters for the
distribution mains. Based on the most recent experience in Europe, the Bank
recommended that PGN adopt a medium pressure system under which all distribu-
tion lines (feeder and combing mains) would operate at a uniform pressure of
4 bars, which would result in simpler design, reduction in pipe size, and
significant savings in costs (20-30Z). This system would also provide greater
built-in storage capacity (system pack), greater operational flexibility and
1/ 1 bar is equivalent to a pressure of 14.5 lb/sq. inch. (psi) or about one
atmosphere.
2/ 1" Aq (1 inch aqua) refers to the pressure resulting from a one-inch water
column and is equivalent to a pressure of 0.036 psi.



- 18 -
scope for future expansion at relacively marginal costs, while providing at
least equivalent standards of safety. PGN has agreed with this suggestion and
modified the project design accordingly. PGN also concurred with the dank
suggestion to use polyethylene instead of steel pipes as far as possible in
view of the soil conditions in Indonesia.
(ii) Market
3.15     The market for gas under the project is made up principally of indus-
trial and commercial entities which will substitute gas for fuel oil and
diesel, and to a lesser extent for LPG and kerosene. A small proportion of
demand is accounted for by domestic users, who will substitute natural gas for
bottled LPG. Initial estimates of the size of the potential market have been
prepared on the basis of surveys undertaken in the three cities during the
course of project preparation. These surveys indicate that there is a substan-
tial market for gas use in light and medium-scale industry, as is illustrated
below. These projections were closely reviewed during the appraisal and found
to represent a realistic target for the market share to be captured by PGN by
the end of the project period.
Current and Forecast Cas Sales (nucm/year)
Industrial   Commercial   Domestic   TOTAL
Jakarta 1984/85        20.1           1.1          3.9       25.1
1991/92      335.2          35.9          8.9      380.0
Bogor   1984/85        11.8           0.6          0.6       13.0
1991/92       55.5           6.8          1.9       64.2
Medan   1984/85 a/      0.5            -           1.5        2.0
1991/92       85.0            3.4         2.8       91.2
TOTAL   1984/85        17.3          16.8          6.0       40.1
1991/92      475.7          46.1         13.6      535.4
a/ Manufactured gas in Medan prior to 1986.
3.16     The structure of industrial/commercial fuel demand in the project areas
is such that approximately 45Z of the gas is expected to substitute for fuel
oil. 43Z for diesel oil, 5% for LPG, and 5% for kerosene. Domestic demand as an
LPG replacement accounts for the remaining 2%. Gas will be used for generating
process steam, and as a source of heat in such industries as textiles, printing
and food processing, and in the manufacture of glass, ceramics, chemicals, and
fabricated metals. (The composition of demand by industry and by area is
given in Annex 4.02.) Commercial customers include office buildings, hotels,
restaurants, and small businesses. The market surveys undertaken by the OGE
consultants and by PGN identified a core market of about 200 industrial con-
sumers and 100 large commercial consumers to be connected initially under
the project. There is great variance in the projected offtake of industrial
consumers, with a large number of relatively small users, and a small number of
large users expected to consume over five mmcm/year each. Having reviewed the
market surveys undertaken during project preparation, the appraisal mission



- 19 -
believes that, in the longer run, there is a substantially larger potential
industrial demand for gas, especially in Jakarta, as well as a large reservoir
of untapped demand on the part of small and medium commercial establishments.
More detailed market surveys will be carried out in the course of the project to
assess whether phased extensions to the system are warranted in the future. The
proposed project constitutes a sensible first phase in the expansion of the
systems, and is designed to serve a market which corresponds to the likely
limits of gas availability and implementation capacity over the next four years.
3.17     PGN currently serves some 7,500 domestic customers in Jakarta, Medan,
and Bogor. There is a need to rationalize the existing domestic distribution
networks, which are antiquated and subject to serious leakage problems. This
wouLd involve abandoning some sections of the systems and replacing others.
There is in addition the potential for some expansion of the domestic market.
However, large scale increases in domestic services are not being considered
under this project because (i) the economic return on investments in domestic
service are acceptable only in relatively high density areas; and (ii) a major
expansion of domestic services at this stage would place a disproportionate
burden on PGN in terms of administrative and managerial requirements relative
to the share of the domestic market in total sales (estimated at less than 3Z of
total sales by the end of the project). For these reasons it is proposed that
service to domestic customers under the project be limited to the selective
replacement of existing pipes and that service to new customers be initiated
only in those areas of high-density immediately adjacent to industrial and
commercial service lines.
Ciii) Supply
3.18     In order to undertake the project, PGN requires assured supplies
of natural gas from Pertamina, which manages, under guidelines set by the
Government, the distribution of natural gas produced from its own oil and gas
fields as well as from fields operated by foreign oil companies under production
sharing contracts. The estimated requirements of Jakarta and Bogor by the end
of the project amount to 470 mmcm/year (about 45 mmcfd), which will have to be
supplied by Pertamina from the existing west Java transmission pipeline.
These supplies will be made available by a combination of (a) gas diverted
from other users (particularly cement plants, which are to be switched to coal);
(b) additional production from existing fields; and/or (c) the connection of new
fields to the transmission pipeline. (The gas supply/demand balance in west
Java is given in Annex 3.01.) According to Pertamina, gas can be made available
to PGN in the required quantities provided that the current purchase price of
US$2.7/mmbtu is assured and Pertamina receives the Government's formal approval
of the proposed gas allocation to PGN. PGN's request for the delivery of
additional gas quantities from Pertamina is now being processed within the
Government. However, before Bank funds can be committed to the project, firmer
guarantees will be required from both GOI and Pertamina on this account.
Accordingly, assurances were obtained from GOI (in the form of a memorandum of
understanding among GOI, PGN and Pertamina) that the gas quantities required by
the end of the project period shall be made available to PGN. The Bank has
reviewed the existing contract form between PGN and Pertamina and found it
acceptable. The execution of supply contracts between Pertamina and PGN
covering the requirements of PGN through the end of the project period, accept-
able to the Bank, is a condition of Loan effectiveness. Moreover, PGN will
prepare a rolling five-year plan covering its future gas requirements to be
updated each year and discussed with the Government and Pertamina to form the
basis for further network expansion.



- 20 -
Project Costs
3.19     The total project cost, based on the design outlined in para 3.14, is
estimated at US$86 million, of which about US$47 million (55%) is expected to be
in foreign exchange, as shown below (details of project cost estimates are given
in Annex 5.02).
Local  F.E.  Total    Local  F.E.  Total
A.  Gas Distribution Systems & T.A.   ----US$ million--    ----Rp billion----
Distribution Systems
Jakarta                        10.4    9.7   20.1    11.4   10.6   22.0
Bogor                           2.6    2.2    4.8       2.8    2.5    5.3
Medan                           2.6    2.3    4.9       2.8    2.6    5.4
Upgrading of networks
in other cities               0.8    1.5    2.3      0.8    1.7    2.5
Training                              -      0.5    0.5       -     0.6    0.6
Technical Assistance (Twinning)       -      3.0    3.0       -      3.3    3.3
Equipment                             -      1.5    1.5       -     1.7    1.7
Taxes & Duties                       7.4      -     7.4      8.2      -     8.2
Base Cost (A)                       23.8   20.7   44.5    26.0   23.0   49.0
B. Customer Conversion
Equipment & Installation             2.6   13.8   16.4       2.9   15.1   18.0
Taxes & Duties                       4.5      -     4.5      5.0     -      5.0
Base Cost (B)                        7.1   13.8   20.9       7.9   15.1   23.0
C. Studies
LPG Feasibility Study                 -      0.2    0.2       -     0.2    0.2
Energy Pricing Policy Study           -      1.0    1.0       -     1.1    1.1
Base Cost (C)                         -      1.2    1.2       -     1.3    1.3
Total Base Cost (A.B+C)             30.9   35.7   66.6    33.9   39.4   73.3
Physical Contingencies               3.1    3.6    6.7       3.4    3.9    7.3
Price Contingencies                  5.4    7.3   12.7       5.8    8.2   14.0
Total Project Cost                  39.4   46.6   86.0    43.1   51.5   94.6
3.20     The cost estimates are based on end-1985 price levels.  Physical
contingencies are 10% of base costs.  Price contingencies are based on the
following expected price increases: 7.0Z in 1986-87, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7 in
1989, 7.6% in 1990, and 4.5% thereafter for imported goods and services; 6% in
1986-90 and 4.5% thereafter for domestic goods and services. Import taxes and
duties have been calculated at an average rate of 40% for imported goods and
equipment. Interest during construction, mainly for the proposed Bank Loan,
has not been included in the project costs since PGN is expected to charge such
interest expense against income during the same year.



- 21 -
Financing Plan
3.21     The project cost, totalling US$86 million equivalent, is expected to
be financed as follows:
Source                         Local       Foreign      Total
----    US$ million---------
Proposed Bank Loan                           34.0         34.0
Bilateral Assistance               -          3.8          3.8
PCN Internal Cash Gen.           6.5            -          6.5
GOI Equity Contributions        18.3            -         18.3
Commercial Loans                10.4            -         10.4
Customers                        4.2          8.8         13.0
Total                        39.4         46.6        86.0
3.22     The Bank Loan will cover the foreign exchange requirements of the
distribution and training components and ef the studies (about US$24.5 million)
and a portion of the estimated foreign exchange portion of conversion expenses
financed under the customer conversion program (US$9.5 million). This will
represent 73Z of the foreign exchange cost of the project and 40Z of total
costs. The remaining expenditures will be financed by the Government, by com-
mercial loans, through bilateral aid for technical assistance to PGN, through
PCN's net internal cash generation, and directly oy customers (for part of the
conversion expenses).
3.23     At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
PGN will be provided with the necessary funds to carry out the project. The
proposed Bank Loan will be onlent by the Government to PGN under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank. The signing of this agreement is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan. Bank funds allocated to
the distribution component (US$23.1 million) will be repaid to COI by PGN over
ten years after a grace period of five years, while Bank funds ailocated to
the customer conversion component (US$9.5 million) will be repaid over three
years after a grace period of five years. The onlending rate will be at least
12% per year, with the Government carrying the foreign exchange risk, which is
in line with current Government policies applicable to public corporations.
Project Implementation
3.24     PGN will have overall responsibility for implementing the project
(except for the Energy Pricing Policy Study which will be undertaken by the
Ministry of Mines and Energy). Seconded staff from the twinning agency will



- 22 -
assist in designing and supervising the construction of project facilities.
rn particular, the twinning agency will provide detailed engineering designs,
project implementation schedules (based on CPM and logic diagrams) and advi-
sory service to PGN on project management. As discussed in para 2.06, a
position of Director Development will be created within PCN to coordinate and
supervise alL construction activities and assume such related functions as
planning/design and procurement of material. This position will be supported
by two subdirectors for planning/design and construction, respectively. The
field construction activities will be organized separately for each city under
a Project Manager who will report to the Director Development. The inter-
related functions of contract administration, quality control and material
control will be the responsibility of the Subdirector Construction.
3.25     Construction work will be carried out by local contractors.  Several
of them have been working with Pertamina on various high-pressure gas and oil
pipeline projects and possess the necessary skills and equipment to undertake
the expanded workload this project will entail. Manpower is not expected to
be a constraint to the efficient implementation of the project considering
the availability of skilled and semiskilled labor. To provide an independent
check, PCN will engage an outside agency for inspection of quality and tests.
This agency will also test and certify the welders in accordance with the
Standard Code of Practice.
3.26     Customer conversion, particularly in the industrial and commercial
categories, will be started soon after the startup of construction activities.
Planning, coordination and supervision of all conversion activities will be
the responsibility of the Director Operations. The supervision of actual
conversion work shall be the responsibility of the city Branch Manager. The
installation of internal piping and firing equipment shall be done by local
contractors.  The twinning agency shall provide the necessary expertise to
specify the equipment requirements and for inspection and commissioning.
3.27     The project is expected to be completed by July 1991.  Pipeline
construction and consumer conversion is expected to proceed as follows:
Main                    Additional Consumers a/-
Year          (Km)            Industrial  Commercial        Domestic
86/87           40                   0            0                0
87/88          261                  30           50              400
88/89          207                  60          100            1,250
89/90          164                  70          180            2,150
90/91           81                 114          260            3,800
91/92            0                  79          210            5,100
Total          753                 353          800           12,700
a/  Total new consumers, including a substantial number to be
connected as a result of on-going expansion work prior to
the Bank project.



- 23 -
3.28     Status of Preparation.  The project is based on the OGE feasibility
study. The overall engineering design has been prepared. The corporate
structure for undertaking development activities already exists with PGN
which has been implementing similar expansion plans, though on a more modest
scale, commensurate with its present organization and capabilities. As the
implementation of the proposed project would involve a major increase in these
activities, institution strengthening will be required through (a) reorganiza-
tion of some of the functions, (b) engagement of additional professional staff,
(c) training and (d) technical assistance through "twinning" with an exper-
ienced gas utility. The selection of the twinning agency has been made by PGN
and GOI, and the twinning arrangements are expected to be finalized by June
1986. Detailed engineering of the project, to be undertaken with the
assistance of the twinning agency, is planned to be completed by September
1986. Tenders for some materials have already been issued. The required
actions regarding reorganization and recruitment of additional staff are
expected to be finalized by September 1986.
Procurement
3.29     All major items of materials, equipment and related services financed
from the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank guidelines, except for (i)
items of small value to be used for the distribution component (not exceeding
US$50,000 each and US$3 million in total) which are available off-the-shelf,
such as electrical switchgear, flex, low pressure pipes and valves, etc; and
(ii) equipment and materials required for customer conversion costing less than
US$100,000 individually, subject to an aggregate limit of US$6.5 million.
Such small value items will be procured through international or local
shopping in accordance with the Bank guidelines. Works related to customer
conversion to gas will be procured under local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of
bids for the supply of goods under ICB, qualified domestic suppliers will be
allowed a preference of 15Z of the CIF price or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. Bidding packages for goods over US$300,000 will be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. Consultant
services for the Energy Pricing Policy Study will be obtained in accordance
with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.30     The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.  The
figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed from the
proceeds of the Bank Loan.



- 24 -
Procurement Table
(US$ million)
Procurement Methodt
Project Component                       ICB    LCB     Others    n.a.          Total
r.   Distribution Syst. & T.A.
Line Pipes                        7.5               0.5h'    3.4           11.4
(Steel Pipe, P.E. Pipe           (7.5)             (0.5)      C-)          (8.0)
Pipeline Valves
Accessories & Fittings)
Other Materials                  10.2               2.5b/    5.4           18.1
(Regulators, Control Valves,  (10.2)               (2.5)      (-)         (12.7)
Meters, Telecom/SCADA, etc.)
Construction                             20.8                              20.8
(-)                               (-)
Equipment                         1.9                         0.7           2.6
(Computer, Measuring Equip-    (1.9)                          (-)          (1.9)
ment, Business Machines,
Software)
Technical Assistance                                3.85'                   3.8
____~~~         _-)                  (-)
Sub-total                    19.6   20.8        6.8       9.5          56.7
(19.6)   (-)       (3.0)      (-)        (22.6)
II.  Customer Conversion                       6.0       15.6      5.8          27.4
(3.0)     (6.5)b/   (-)           (9.5)
III. Training                                             0.5                    0.5
(0.5)                  (0.5)
IV.  Studies                                              1.4$'                  1.4
(1.4)                  (1.4)
TOTAL (I + II + III + IV)        19.6   26.8       24.3      15.3          86.0
(19.6)  (3.0)    (11.4)      (-)         (34.0)
a/ Customs duties.
b/ International or local shopping.
c/ Financed by bilateral aid funds (para 2.08).
di/ Following Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursement
3.31     The Bank Loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment, materials and related services; (b) 100X
of local equipment and materials expenditures (ex-factory); (c) 65X of the



- 25 -
cost of other items procured locally (off-the-shelf); (d) 50% of the cost of
works related to customer conversion; {e) OOZ of foreign expenditures for
training; and (f) 100% of expenditures for consulting services.
3.32     The implementation period for the project is estimated at five
years. The disbursement schedule is assumed to follow the Bank's standard
disbursement profile, which indicates a six-year disbursement period (Annex
5.03). The disbursement in the sixth year would be payments of contract
retention fees. A one-year delay/advance in project execution would result in
an increase/decrease in project cost of less than about 5%. The net impact on
economic and financial internal rates of return would not be significant.
Ecology and Safety
3.33     No significant environmental problems are likely to result from the
implementation of the project. Actually, the project is expected to result in
improved environmental conditions. The combustion products of natural gas are
considerably less polluting than those of the liquid hydrocarbon fuels (fuel
oil, diesel and kerosene) which will be replaced, and the project will contri-
bute to a reduction in the urban pollution level, specially in industrial
zones. The pipelines will be buried and therefore pose no unusual environ-
mental hazard. Appropriate standards and codes of practice will be followed
in the detailed engineering and construction to ensure proper protection and
minimize the likelihood of third party damage. Moreover, the proposed project
will drastically reduce the environmental hazards due to leaking and corroded
pipelines in the cities served by PCN, which are either going to be replaced
or rectified to proper standards.
Reporting Requirements
3.34     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PGN will collect
relevant data through the monthly technical reports submitted by its branch
offices, combine this information with project data kept by its head office
and use it for compiling quarterly progress reports on the project. The
progress reports should be made available to the Bank within 45 days of the
end of the reporting period. An outline of the content of the quarterly
progress reports is given in Annex 5.04.
IV - FINANCIAL ASPECTS
4.01     PGN's past financial performance has been poor, reflecting the
derelict state of its old networks and the small volume of its gas sales.
This situation is expected to change radically as PGN expands its sales of
natural gas to industrial consumers. Its gross margin on gas sales is large
by international standards and the problem for PGN is mainly to capture a
market that needs to be made aware of the availability and the advantages to
be derived from the use of natural gas.



- 26 -
Past Results
4.02     In recent years, PGN's average gas sales price has been at least 50%
higher than its average cost of gas manufactured or purchased from Pertamina.
PCN's gross margins are thus high by most standards. However, because of the
very high rate of gas loss (over 30Z) in the distribution systems, as well as
the small-scale operations catering mostly to households, the total costs of
operations have been high and, as a consequence, PGN incurred operating losses
during four of the last five years. However, high interest income in FY85
helped provide an overall net profit during that year despite a slight
operating loss.
4.03     PGN's financial statements for the period FY81-FY85, with explanatory
notes, are given in Annexes 6.01, 6.02, 6.03 and 6.04. They are summarized
below:
PGN - Past Financial Performance a'
(Rp billion)
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Gas Sales (mmcm)                           59.8    64.5    49.9    67.2    76.8
Average Sales Price (Rp/cu.m.)             47.8    56.8    93.3   119.3   157.4
Gas Sales                                   3.1     4.0      5.0      8.2    12.8
Cost of Gas Sold -                          1.9     2.5      2.9     4.9      9.6
Other Expenses (net)                        1.8     2.2      2.5      2.8     3.5
Operating Income                           (0.6)   (0.7)   (0.4)    1.0    (0.3)
Non-Operating Income (net)                  0.4    (0.3)    0.2      0.4      1.1
Net Profit (after tax)                     (0.2)   (1.0)   (0.2)    1.4       0.8
Ratios (Z)
Operating Income/Sales                     (21)    (18)      (9)       12     (3)
Net Profit/Sales                            (7)    (25)      (3)       16      6
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets
in Operation c/                         (6.9)   (7.3)   (4.2)       8.5   (1.5)
a/ PGN's fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.
bJ Including system gas losses.
c/ At historic cost.
4.04     Since most of PGN's past development works have been financed from
the Government Development Fund (DIP), PGN has been able to accumulate some
surplus funds from its own cash generation. Until used for capital works,
these funds, which totalled about Rp 1,100 million at the end of FY85, have



- 27 -
been invested in time deposits currently earning about 16Z p.a. This interest
income explains the substantial difference between PGN's operating income and
net profit.
4.05     Income tax regulations allow for losses to be "carried forward" for
up to five years to reduce any subsequent taxable income for purposes of
calculating the company's income tax liability. As a result, PGN has not paid
any income tax (which was 10% up to FY85 and will be 35 of net income as from
FY86 ) so far and does not expect to do so in FY86. The same "loss carry
forward" regulation applies to PGN's contributions to the statutory social
fund which would normally total about 20% of after-tax profit.
Present Financial Position
4.06     PGN's balance sheet as of March 31, 1985, is summarized below:
Rp. billion            percent
Net Fixed Assets in Operation        34.5                   70
Work in Progress                      5.7                   11
Total Net Fixed Assets               40.2                   81
Current Assets                       13.0                   26
Less:  Current Liabilities           (5.6)                 (11)
Other Assets, net a/                  1.8                    4
Total Assets                        49.4                   100
Financed by
Equity                              49.0                    99
Long-term Debt                        -                      -
Others b.4                                                   1
Total Liabilities                   49.4                   100
Current Ratio (times)                2.3
a/ Includes time deposits.
b/ Customer deposits.
4.07     As already mentioned, PGN's investments have been financed largely
through Government equity contributions from DIP funds. As a result, despite
its poor operating financial performance, PGN has no long-term debt and its
liquidity position is good, with a current ratio of about 2.3.
Valuation of Assets
4.08     PGN's pLant and equipment were revalued in 1979/80 as required of all
public corporations by the Ministry of Finance. The revaluation was recorded
in PGN's books; the revaluation method has been accepted by the Bank under



- 28 -
other projects, e.g. in the power sector. Fixed assets acquired by PGN since
FY80 have been booked at acquisition cost. In 1986, a land revaluation for
FY85 was completed resulting in a Rp 18.3 billion increase in the value of
land owned by PCN. This revaluation more than doubled the net value of PGN's
fixed assets. Much of PGN's distribution networks are obsolete, fully
depreciated, and will be replaced under the project. It would, therefore,
serve no useful purpose to revalue them at this point to reflect current
prices. However, starting in FY89 when most obsolete assets would have been
replaced, PGN should be required to revalue its fixed assets annually so that
the impact of currency fluctuations and price increases on the replacement
cost of its assets can be assessed, and its financial performance judged, on
the basis of financial statements incorporating adequate revaluation adjust-
ments. Since the Indonesian accounting practices (see para. 2.10) do not
provide for regular revaluation of fixed assets, the revaluation exercise will
be done on a memorandum account basis outside PGN's official books and used
exclusively in the context of the Bank's supervision of the financial aspects
of the Project and Loan Agreements. For the purpose of calculating PGN's
projected rate of return, fixed assets in operation have been revalued
according to the Bank's MUV index in dollar terms, adjusted for variations in
exchange parities between the US dollar and the Indonesian Rupiah (see Annex
6.04). PGN may sell land of gas manufacturing properties, which will not be
needed for its operations once natural gas is available. The value of such
land is estimated at Rp 4.0 billion. During negotiations it was agreed that
this amount would be excluded from the rate base. Furthermore, assurances
were obtained that PCN will, starting in FY89, revalue its fixed assets in
operation annually according to methods acceptable to the Bank; and will
submit to the Bank its unaudited financial statements, including revaluation
of fixed assets in operation, within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(see para. 2.12).
Gas Tariffs
4.09     PGN tariffs for natural gas range from Rp 170 to Rp 190/cu.m.,
depending on the volume sold. These prices are reasonable relative to both
the cost of supplying gas, and to the price of alternative fuels. The current
schedule of fuel prices is as follows:
Calorific Equivplent
Current Domestic Price        Gas Price a
(Rp/liter) (US$/mmbtu)         (Rp/cu.m.)
Fuel Oil           220        5.30                217
Diesel (ADO)       242        5.86                240
Kerosene           165        3.82                157
LPG (per kg.)      330        6.43                264
Natural Gas                4.15-4.60            170-190
a/ Adjusted for amortized conversion costs and changes
in combustion efficiency.



- 29 -
4.10     The current gas price thus represents a discount of about 15% from
fuel oil and diesel - the principal fuels for which it will substitute - and
falls mid-way between the prices of kerosene and LPG. Given the fact that gas
*is currently in short supply in west Java, pricing on the basis of replacement
cost of the marginal fuel substituted for is desirable to ensure efficient
utilization. On this basis, the current price structure, with a few reserva-
tions, is reasonable. Firstly, it would be desirable for PGN to maintain some
form of discount from diesel and fuel oiL prices in the first few years of the
project in order to attract new customers; secondly, consideration may -be
given to a two-tiered price system (domestic and industrial/commercial), to
capture the full surplus to household users substituting for LPG; and finally,
the differential of price by volume sold could probably be increased, to more
accurately reflect the economies of scale in connecting large users.  (On the
basis of the OGE report, for example, the average incremental cost of distri-
bution to households, compared to commercial/industrial consumers, is esti-
mated at about Rp. 77/cu.m.) These anomalies in pricing are not sufficiently
serious to require immediate changes and it is proposed that adjustments be
made after part of the project has been completed and when distribution costs
and utilization patterns are better known. Agreement with GOI and PGN was
reached during negotiations that a review of tariffs will be carried out by
July 31, 1988, the results reviewed with the Borrower and the Bank, and any
necessary tariff adjustmrents made in a timely manner.
Financial Projections
4.11     PGN's projected financial statements for the period FY86-FY92 with
notes and assumptions, are given in Annexes 6.01 to 6.04. Some highlights are
presented below:
PGN - Highlights of Financial Forecasts
FY86 a/  FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
Gas Sales:  (mmcm)                158      158    220    338    464    537    561
(Rp billion)        27.3    29.4   40.6   61.8   84.5   97.7  102.1
Operating Income/Sales (X)          4        5      14     22      26     27      26
Net Profit/Sales (Z)                2        2      5       8      10     11      11
Rate of Return on Net
Fixed Assets in Operationb
{i) on book value basis (Z) 3.3       2.0    9.1   18.1   22.8   24.1   21.3
(ii) on revalued basis (Z)  2.1       0.6    6.8   13.0   16.5   16.9   14.7
Current Ratio (times)             2.4      3.3    3.9    4.9   6.0       2.0c'  2.25/
Debt/(Debt & Equity) tX)            0        3     26      33     34      29     22
Debt Service Ratio (times)        5.7    29.2    4.6    4.2    2.7    4.1    2.2'
a/  Based on PGN budget.
b/ The rates of return are after income tax (35%) and social fund
contributions (20% of after-tax income) but before interest. DPS
contributions have been treated as distribution of after-tax profits
as indicated by Ministry of Finance.
c/  Long-term loans are amortized starting in FY92.



- 30 -
4.12     These projections assume that PCN's average gas sales price of about
Rp 180/cu.m. and its gas cost of US$2.7/mmbtu (according to its agreement with
Pertamina), currently equal to about Rp 107/cu.m., will remain constant during
the project period. Gas sales projections are based on the OGC feasibility study
and are judged to be slightly conservative but reasonable. PCN is expected to
manage a 250% increase in its gas sales with only about a 10% increase in the
size of its staff, because newly constructed distribution networks will require
less maintenance than the old leaky ones and the introduction of computers and
modern office equipment is expected to enhance staff productivity. These factors
are expected to contribute to a substantial improvement in PGN's financial
performance, which is expected to be fully satisfactory towards the end of the
project period. In FYs 89-92, PGN is expected to produce a rate of return
substantially higher than the 10% (on revalued basis) needed for its financial
viability. However, to ensure that the financial performance of PCN will remain
adequate beyond the project period, PGN agreed during negotiations to take
necessary measures to produce a rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in
operation of at least 10% starting in FY89.
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
4.13     PGN's projected funds flow statements for the period FY86-FY92 are given
in Annex 6.03. The cumulative cashflow situation for the five-year project
period FY87-FY9l is presented below:
Rp billion      US$ million   percent
Internal Cash Generation                         92.9              84.4        117
Less:  Debt Service                              22.1              20.1         28
Tax & Social Fund Payments                26.2              23.8         33
Increased Working Capital a/              11.9              10.8         15
DPS Payments (as dividends)               19.5              17.7        24
Available for Capital Works and Conversion       13.2              12.0         17
Proposed Bank Loan                               35.8              32.6b/       44
Commercial Loans                                 11.5              10.4         14
Government Equity Contributions                  20.1              18.3         25
Total Sources of Funds                 80.6              73.3       100
Proposed Project                                 58.1              52.8         72
Other Capita, Works                               6.0               5.5          7
Conversion c                                     16.5              15.0         21
Total Fund Requirements                80.6              73.3       100
Debt Service Ratio (times)                        4.2               4.2         -
a/ Mainly accounts receivable and inventories. Excludes current maturities,
which are included under long-term debt.
b/ Excluding US$1.4 million for the LPC Feasibility and Energy Pricing Policy
Studies.
c/ Outstanding balance o. conversion loans at the end of the period.



- 31 -
4.14     The Government has in the past provided PGN with the necessary funds to
implement its investment programs in the form of equity contributions of DIP
funds. During the project period, however, GOI equity contributions to PGN will
be limited to a total of about US$19.0 equivalent and US$5.0 million equivalent
for any one fiscal year. Remaining funding equirements will be met by loans on
commercial terms (about 18% interest p.a.) from state owned banks. In addi-
tion to PGN's contribution to the financing of the project through internal
cash generation (about US$12 million or 17% of total financing requirements),
PGN is expected to make payments to the Government Development Fund during the
project period in an amount of about US$17.7 million, as compared with pro-
jected Government fund allocations to PGN of about US$18.3 million. In FY90,
PGN's payments to the Government Development Fund are expected to exceed funds
received from the Government and, starting in FY92, PGN is expected to finance
all local costs of its investment program through internal cash generation,
even after substantial Development Fund payments to the Government.
4.15     PGN is authorized, through its charter, to borrow and issue obli-
gations in its own name.  Due to Government policy, these rights have not been
exercised in the past, and the proposed Bank Loan and Government bank loans
would be the only loans on PGN's books during the project period. PGN's
spotty financial performance would hardly make its bonds or borrowings
attractive to investors and lenders at this moment without special Government
guarantees and/or tax exemption of interest. Once the project is completed,
however, PGN's financial record is expected to have improved to the point
where the Government could consider the possibility of allowing PGN to borrow
in its own name in the commercial market. At the same time, the Government
should consider letting PGN use a higher proportion of its cash generation for
future investments, thus making Government equity contributions of DIP funds
unnecessary. This would be permitted under the legal framework under which
PGN is operating. These aspects will be discussed with PGN and the Government
during project execution.
Financial Analysis of the Project
4.16     Calculations of incremental financial rates of return (FRR) are found
in Annex 6.05 with past and projected income statements for the main project
areas (Jakarta, Bogor and Medan). The estimated after-tax FRR are satisfac-
tory and well above the current opportunity cost of :apital for PGN. The
estimated before-tax FRR reflect the financial performance of the project from
the Government's perspective, i.e. excluding all payments of taxes, import
duties, and statutory funds.



- 32 -
Financial Rate of Return - /(Z)
Project Component b/        Before Taxes       After-Taxes
Jakarta                      71                 29
Bogor                        44                 14
Medan                        65                 28
Total Project                    65                 29
a/  The FRR is defined as the discount rate at which the NPV of
incremental cash flows (expressed in real terms) attributable
to the project (excluding debt service) equals zero. Common
project costs for computers, instrumentation etc. have been
distributed among PGN's branches in proportion to other pro-
jected investments during the project period. Income tax and
social fund payments for the project areas have been calculated
according to the financial projections for each area. This
results in higher tax and other payments for the three main
project areas than for PGN as a whole, as the remaining five
areas are expected to continue to operate at a net loss.
Consequently, the average FFR, after tax and social fund
payments, for the main project areas is slightly lower than that
for the project as a whole.
ba The above FRRs do not include costs and benefits for customer
conversion.
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
4.17     An analysis was made of the sensitivity of the project FRR to changes
in a number of key variables (see Annex 6.05 for details):
Financial Rate of Return (Z)
Before Taxes      After Taxes
Base Case                        65                 29
Capital Cost * 10%               58                 27
Operating Cost + 10Z             59                 28
Gas sales price - 10X            45                 24
Cost of Gas + 10X                53                 27
Combination of Above             28                 16
These analyses indicate that the FRR of the project is sensitive mostly to
changes in revenues (due to fluctuations in volume and/or price). In
comparison, moderate changes in capital, operating and gas costs would affect
the FRR of the project only in a minor way.



- 33 -
4.18     The financial projections assume that sales prices will remain
constant in nominal terms during the project period (and therefore that gas
prices would decrease by about 35% in real terms.) Furthermore, gas demand
projections, based on about 350 new small to medium-sized industrial cus-
tomers, are considered to be on the conservative side. The risk of lower than
projected revenues, other than for delays in project execution or insufficient
gas supply, is therefore small. A delay in project execution is likely to
delay costs and benefits at roughly the same rate, so the impact on the FRR is
not substantial even if the net present value of the project would decline.
The main project risks are seen on the gas supply side, since Pertamina may
increase the Rupiah price charged to PGN for gas, either because of a devalua-
tion of the Rupiah against the US dollar (current sale contracts to PGN are
denominated in US$) or through a unilateral increase in dollar terms. Also,
Pertamina may not be able to meet the delivery schedule for the quantities
stipulated in its gas supply contract with PGN. An analysis of the above risk
factors indicates that the financial results of the project are expected to
remain acceptable even under rather adverse circumstances:
Financial Rate of Return (%)
Before Taxes    After Taxes
Two years delay in project execution              39               23
Two years delay in gas supplies                   44               25
Pertamina prices + 25%                            36              20
Gas Supplies - 20%                                50               24
Gas Supplies - 50%                                29               15
4.19     Based on simplified assumptions regarding probability distributions
for capital expenditures, cost of gas, operating costs and sales, a simulated
risk analysis was done (Annex 6.06). This analysis indicates a probability of
over 95% that the IRR after taxes will exceed 11%.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01     The principal justification for the project is that it will enable
the substitution of gas for other fuels in high-valued, mostly industrial
uses. Concomitant to this, the project will build up the institutional cap-
ability needed to establish the active marketing of gas to small/mec4um in-
dustry. It will also help develop replicable technological standards for city
gas distribution. The project has been so designed as to result in a signi-
ficant transfer of technology and skills to PGN, which will enable it to
expand domestic gas distribution in the future with minimal expatriate input.
Economic Evaluation of the Project
5.02     The project has been evaluated by comparing the economic costs and
benefits accruing to the country with and without the project. This is done
by quantifying the value of substituting natural gas for other fuels with and
without the project. In summary, with the project, less gas will be used in



- 34 -
cement and power plants, where it would substitute coal and fuel o.l
respectively, and more will be used to substitute diesel, fuel oil, LPG and
kerosene in industrial, commercial and domestic use.  The principal benefits
result from this shift into a higher valued market, which results in net
savings to the country of about US$15 million per year by the end of the
project. The following sections describe the nature and magnitude of the
benefits and costs involved.
5.03     Project Economic Benefits.  The benefits consist of the value of gas
used by the customers (mostly industrial and commercial) to be connected under
the project, along with any operational and maintenance savings (due to the
higher fuel efficiency of natural gas in some applications) and a number of
other externalities associated with the substitution of natural gas for other
fuels. In general, the effect of using gas is to release diesel, fuel oil or
LPG which may then be exported at the margin, or to reduce the demand for
kerosene which would otherwise be imported. Consequently, the benefits of
using gas are valued at the calorific equivalent of the f.o.b. price of the
fuel substituted for in the case of d-lesel, fuel oil and LPG, and at the
calorific equivalent of the c.i.f. price of kerosene. In the case of gas in
domestic use, it is assumed that LPG is the fuel replaced in the high-income
households which are likeLy to be provided with natural gas under the project.
5.04     The following prices and equivalent gas values (in 1985 prices) have
been used to evaluate project benefits (see Annex 7.02):
International Price   Equivalent Value of Gas
(US$/ton)                (US$/mcf)
1990     1995          1990         1995
LPG                     148      182           3.6           4.5
Kerosene                159      196           4.1           5.1
Diesel                  153      189           4.0           5.0
Fuel Oil                 89      109           2.4           3.5
5.05     The structure of industrial/commercial fuel demand in the project
areas is such that approximately 45% of the gas yill substitute fer fuel oil,
43% for diesel, 5% for LPG and 5% for kerosene - . Domestic demand as an LPG
replacement accounts for the remaining 2%. The weighted average vaLue of gas
used under the project is thus approximately US$3.4/mcf in 1990 and US$4.1/mcf
in 1995.
5.06     Switching to natural gas will entail additional benefits to
industrial customers in the form of operating cost savings due to reduced fuel
handling and storage costs, and reduced maintenance costs for business and
1/ The retail price of industrial diesel and fuel oil is Rp 200/liter in
either case. Because of the difference in calorific content, this works out
as Rp. 5,600/mmbtu for diesel and Rp. 5,400/mmbtu for fuel oil. The small
differential between the two makes it difficult to target the use of gas
towards those consumers that use diesel, which offers natural gas the highest
substitution value.



- 35 -
equipment since gas is a cleaner fuel. The magnitude of these savings vary
substantially from industry to industry, but are estimated by the OGE con-
sultants to amount to at least US$0.7 million per year by the end of the
project period. A further benefit accrues as a result of the increased
thermal efficiency of natural gas, which lends itself more readily to
combustion than do liquid fuels (i.e. a greater proportion of the calorific
value of the fuel is exploited.) This typically results in a 5 to 10% in-
crease in benefits, depending on the industry and the type of burner used.
The differential in thermal eff:-iency is significantly lower for large con-
sumers such as power and cement plants, which use sophisticated burner equip-
ment, are subject to frequent maintenance, and thus suffer less efficiency
loss in combustion than medium-sized industrial plants. The net result is a
saving estimated (conservatively) at SZ or total fuel value when using natural
gas to substitute for fuel oil and diesel in medium industry rather than in
power plants.
5.07     Finally, further unquantified benefits will accrue from the sub-
stitution of natural gas for diesel and fuel oil in urban areas in the form of
reduced pollution; and from the upgrading of the existing domestic gas distri-
bution networks in the form of reduced risk of leakage and explosion.
5.08     Project Economic Costs.  The main element of cost is the cost of gas
diverted from other potential uses. The alternative uses of gas in the "with-
out project' case vary with time and geographical location, and of necessity
involve making a number of assumptions. For the purpose of project evaluation
we have used the projections of future gas supply and demand developed in the
recent gas utilization study. In west Java, it is assumed that for the first
few years of the project gas will be withdrawn from two existing cement
plants, which the Government plans to convert to coal. Thereafter, it is
assumed that the alternative marginal use of gas would be as a fuel in steam
power plants, where it would substitute for waxy residual fuel oil. In Medan,
it is expected that gas would be available in excess of potential market
demand over the project period and that, at the margin, the alternative to
using it for industrial/commercial use is to leave it in the ground.
5.09     The cost of gas is based on its value to the economy in the
appropriate alternative use, which has been measured in terms of its netback
value in that use. This netback value reflects the opportunity cost to the
industry of using a fuel other than gas, based on the economic value of the
alternative fuel, adjusted by the (discounted) difference in plant capital and
operating costs resulting from using the other fuel. T1. weighted average
netback val7e of gas in west Java is estimated at US$2.4 in 1990 and US$3.0 in
1995/mcf. -   In Medan, where gas supply is effectively unrestrained, gas is
valued at its long run marginal cost of production (including a depletion
premium), which is estimated at US$1.50!mcf.
1/ This is the most conservative assumption in the sense that it assumes
that supply of gas in West Java will remain constrained. The possibility
of linking West Java to some of the gas surplus areas in the country is
under study. There appears to be a good possibility that supply in
West Java will become sufficient to the point where its value will be
dictated by long-run marginal costs rather than the opportunity cost in
other appLications. This would improve the project economics consider-
ably.



- 36 -
5.10     The capital costs of the project were expressed in constant 1985
dollars net of taxes and duties, and annual incremental operating and
maintenance costs were estimated at 5% per annum of capital costs. Customer
conversion costs were estimated on the basis of the voLume of gas consumption
for industrial consumers, and at a fixed rate of US$150 per household for new
domestic consumers.
5.11     Ecomomic Rate of Return (ERR).  On the basis of the above costs and
benefits the project is expected to yieLd net benefits to the country of about
US$15 million p.a. by the early 1990s, and to result in an economic internal
rate of return of 31%. The return is highest in Medan (82%) where the
economic opportunity cost of gas is relatively low, and is lowest in Bogor
(18%) where gas is costlier and a significant investment is required in dis-
tribution infrastructure.
5.12     Sensitivity analysis indicates that the viability of the project is
susceptible to variations in the value of alternate fuels and in the magnitude
of demand, but remains acceptable even under rather adverse circumstances, as
demonstrated by the following results:
ERR (Z)    NPV (US$ million) a/
Base Case                                31               69
Demand Up 50%                            48              128
Demard Down 50%                          13               10
Value of Replacement Fuels +20%          43              111
Value of Replacement Fuels -30%          13               10
Costs Up 50%                             19               43
a/  At an opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
Project Risks
5.13     The potential risks faced by the project fall into four categories:
(i) security of gas supply, (ii) delays in market development, (iii) declining
fuel values, and (iv) shortfalls in institutional capability to implement the
project. These risks have been recognized from the beginning, and as far as
possible precautions to minimize them have been built into the project
design. They are not considered to be of sufficient magnitude to justify
foregoing the substantial benefits which can be derived from the project.
5.14     It is essential that PGN be assured a steady supply of gas to distri-
bute to its customers. The execution of long-term supply contracts with
Pertamina has been incorporated as a condition of effectiveness of the project
(para 3.18). Even then there is a possibility that Pertamina would slip behind
schedule in supplying the required quantities of gas from the west Java net-
work. The mission has reviewed the gas supply situation and considers this a
remote possibility given the various opportunities offered for expanding the
supply of gas as proposed.



- 37 -
5.15     There is a possibility that customers, either for lack of motivation
and/or technical knowhow, would not convert their operations to natural gas in
sufficient numbers or soon enough to warrant the investment in expansion. As
regards customer interest, the demand projections prepared by the consultants
were reviewed by Bank staff and found, if anything, to be conservative rela-
tive to the size of the potential market. At current financial prices, gas is
an attractive substitute for other fuels, and PGN experience over the last few
years suggests that companies are eager to switch to gas. The responsibility
for providing adequate technical expertise to customers for conversion at a
reasonable cost is one of the pivotal functions of a modern gas utility and
shall have to be borne by PGN. The institutional strengthening of PGN
required to take on this role is intended to be provided through the twinning
arrangement with a prominent gas utility. Moreover, assistance will be
provided under the project for customer conversion to promote the use gas.
5.16     Further decline in the international price of petroleum products (and
hence in the substitution value of natural gas) over the coming years is a
real possibility. Sensitivity analysis, however, indicates that the project
would remain economically viable even if petroleum prices dropped by up to
forty percent from forecast levels.
5.17     PGN currently lacks the technical and managerial expertise to
effectively implement an expansion program of the magnitude envisaged under
the project. However, a number of elements have been built into the project
design to overcome this shortcoming. The assistance to be provided under
the twinning arrangement, the execution of which will be a condition of
project effectiveness (para 2.08), is expected to be sufficient to enable
PGN to undertake the project efficiently. In addition, the project
incorporates a reorganization of PGN which should streamline the company
project implementation arrangements (para. 2.06). The mission believes that,
with these measures, PGN should have no difficulties implementing the project
in accordance with the proposed schedule.
VI. AGREEMENTS
6.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that:
(i)    it will allow PGN to maintain its pay scale at a level as
remunerative as that offered by similar public corporations
(para 2.09); and
(ii)    it will provide PGN with necessary funds to carry out the
project (para. 3.23).
6.02     During negotiations, the following issues were discussed with PGN and
assurances and understandings obtained that PGN will:
(i)    by March 31, 1987, furnish the Bank with a detailed training
program (para 2.07);
(ii)    submit to the Bank its unaudited financial statements, includ-
ing, as from FY89, revaluation of fixed assets in operation,
within six months of the end of each fiscal year and



- 38 -
corresponding audit reports within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year (paras 2.12 and 4.08);
(iii)    submit to the Bank its annual investment program, not later than
January 1 of each year (para. 2.13);
(iv)    review the adequacy of its insurance coverage by June 30, 1987,
and discuss the results of such review with the Bank (para.
2.15);
(v)    submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1987, plans for
upgrading its existing networks in cities other than Jaka-ta,
Bogor and Medan with the economic, financial and technical
justification for the proposed activities (para 3.08);
(vi)    by September 30, 1986, furnish to the Bank for approval detailed
operating procedures for the implementation of the customer
conversion program (para 3.11).
(vii)    adopt medium pressure parameters for the design of all new gas
pipelines to be constructed under the project (para 3.14);
(viii)    use polyethylene pipes a far as possible for the new pipelines
to be constructed under the project (para 3.14);
(ix)    prepare a rolling five-year plan for its future gas requirements
to be updated by the end of each fiscal year and discussed with
the Borrower and Pertamina (para 3.18);
(x)    submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports according to a
format acceptable to the Bank (para 3.34);
(xi)    review its schedule of gas tariffs by July 31, 1988, discuss the
results of this review with the Borrower and the Bank and, in a
timely manner thereafter make any necessary tariff adjustment,
taking into account the Borrowers and the Bank's comments (para
4.10); and
(xii)    take necessary measures to produce a rate of return on revalued
net fixed assets in operation of at least lOX starting in FY89
(para 4.12)
6.03     Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan would be:
!i)    the appraval of the proposed reorganization of PGN by the Borrower
(para 2.06);
(ii)    the execution of a technical assistance agreement acceptable to
the Bank with an established gas utility in order to assist PGN
in carrying out the project (para 2.08);



- 39 -
(iii)    the execution of long-term contracts acceptable to the Bank for
the supply of natural gas in accordance with the quantities
required through the end of the project period (para 3.18); and
(iv)    the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the
Bank between the Borrower and PGN (para 3.23).
6.04     Based on the above agreements, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank Loan of US$34.0 million equivalent to the Republic of
Indonesia for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
rate.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1.01
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Gas Sector Data - Estimated Gas Reserves
(BCF, as of 11/1984)
Associated Gas         Non-Associated Gas   TOTAL
Reg ion                 Developed Undeveloped   Developed Undeveloped
North Sumatra       +      579         65    +    10,793     2,124   +  13,561
Central Sumatra     +      118          -    +       231       117   +     466
South Sumatra       +    2,144         13    +     1,440       665   +  4,262
West Java           +      884        129    +     1,380        52   +   2,445
Central Java        +        -          -    +         -        42   +      42
i.                      +                        4
East Java           +       88          -    +         -       500   +     588
East Kalimantan     +    1,798         88    +    14,299       825   +  17,010
Eastern Indonesia   +       22          -    +         -        84   +      106
South China Sea     +      210          -    +         -    40,900   +  41,110
South Sulawesi      +        -          -    +         -       407   +     407
TOTAL               +    5,843        295    +    28,143    45,716   +  79,997
Source:  Indonesia Gas Utilization Study, Beicip
April 11, 1986
Energy Departient



- 41 -                                 ANNEX 1.02
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Gas Sector Data - Historical Gas Production
(daily average in mmefd)
+     1977      1979     1981   1982      1983
Pertamina              +      103       123      141    184       503
Migas - CEPU           +      0.3       0.3      0.2    0.2       0.5
Work Contractors       +       70        78       80     69       189
Proiduction Sharing    +      369      798       902    859    2,353
Contractors
TOTAL                  +      543       998    1,124  1,112    3,046
Source: Indonesia Gas Utilization Studv
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Gas Sector Data - Gas Production/Utilization Balance - 1984
(BCF)
Field Local      PUSRI     Refinerv  LPG/
Production  +    Use  Market (Fertilizer)              LEX      LNG    Flared
North Sumatra                  +    672.0    +    231    0.1           0         0.6    5.5    416.1    18.7
Central Sumatra                +     29.9    +   21.5        0         0           0       0         0     8.4
South Sumatra                  +    117.0    +   35.3    0.1        55.9         4.9       0         0    20.8
West Java                      +    160.4    +   37.4   64.7           0           0   19.4          0    38.9
Central Java                   +      4.8    +    0.4        -         -           -       -         -     4.4
East Kalimantan                +    531.5    +   29.4    0.0       29.6          6.3   10.1    414.0    42.1
Other                          +      6.3    +    4.1        0         0           0       0         0     2.2
TOTAL                          +  1,521.9    +  359.1   64.9       85.5         11.8   35.0    830.1   135.5
Source:  Indonesia Gas Utilization Study
0
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.04
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Gas Sector Data - Pattern of Gas Utilization - 1983
Steel                            3%
Cement                           1%
Fertilizer                       7%
Power Generation                 - '
PGN/Domestic                     - A/
Refineries                       1Z
LPG                              3%
LNG                             55%
Field Use                       30%
a/ Less than half of one percent
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 44 -                           Annex 2.01
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PGN Operations and Organization
1.      PGN is supplying natural and manufactured gas to about 22,000 small
and medium sized industrial and commercial consumers and households in eight
cities namely: Jakarta, Bogor, Medan, Bandung, Cirebon, Semarang, Surabava and
Ujung Pandang. Its average daily sale of gas for fiscal year 84/85 amounted
to 7.4 MMCF of which natural gas constituted 70%. The following table
illustrates the scope of its operations, city-wise, during fiscal vear 84/85.
RWa TOW 4seIL 195 - mb 155
JAlAm  E3  -  mmP    aa   PXZD.  MWUtC SmAN!  U. PAEW  MrAL
Toa Plptlf M)O           307   133    2.9        a    150,8   12.7    20s       53   1187
f.bneri1/aL aL_           25    27       7      29      Z       13      25       5    156
*-_*^1b Qx- on           SX0    939    143B    19s    Sg9   1769    3716       472  30556
cm _
- inamiG Qm            57.S  45.2       -    712.93    -       -       -
-!UbmdGmOK)            69,32    -              -       -       - _
- aofac,md Go OKF)       -      -    69,5      -    193.56    0.37   75,77    2,22
WuIm f    (- 106 TV.)   4.759  2.33    339   2.315      9D      431   1.4.17    1
Fapd1in.Wi(nE            6.5   0.    1.5    0.3    1.0        1.0    3.0      0.5
2.      PGN, under its statutes, is managed by a Board of Directors, which is
composed of a President Director and a maximum of four directors, appointed by
the President of the Republic under recommendation from the Minister of Mines
and Energy. The Board, within the guidelines set by the Minister of Mines and
Energy, is empowered to draw up the annual work plan and budget, appoint and
discharge employees, establish pay scales and determine the numbers and
categories of staff required. The President Director is the chief executive
of the corporation. In the head office he is assisted by two directors and an
internal auditor. The operations in head office are organized on functional
lines. The main functions and their sub-functions are as follows:



Annex 2.01
- 45                            Page Z of 5
1. Operations
(a)    Marketing
(b)    Planning and Design
(c)    Distribution System Operations and Maintenance
(i) Pipeline and gas manufacturing plants operations
(ii) Corrosion control
(iii)   Metering
2.   Development i.e. construction of pipelines, control stations,
metering stations, etc.
3. Finance
(a)    Finance
(b)    Accounts
(c)    Billing
4. Administrative and Personnel Affairs
(a)    Administration
(b)    Personnel management
(c)    General Affairs, i.e. way leave permissions, Public
relations, etc.
5. Procurement and Stores
(a)    Procurement
(b)    Stores management
Cc)   Inventory
6. Internal audit
3.       Apart from internal audit, all other functions listed above have been
grouped and placed under the responsibility of the two directors. The
Director Operations is responsible for marketing, planning and design, and
distribution operations. The Director Finance is responsible for finance,
accounts, billing, administration, personnel affairs, procurement and
stores. The Internal Auditor is responsible for internal audit onlv. In
status, the Internal Auditor is one step below the directors.
4.       The field activities in the eight cities are organized on regional
basis - each city being a separate distribution region. These activities are
broadly grouped into Operations and Development. The operational activities
of the region, involving sale of gas, maintenance of distribution svstem and
billing are controlled by the Branch Manager based at the corooration's branch
office in the city. He is assisted by Operation Engineer(s) responsible for
marketing and distribution operations, an Accountant responsible for accounts
and billings and an Administrative Officer responsible for stores,
administration and general affairs. These executives are operationally and
administratively responsible to the Branch Manager, and functionally
responsible to their departmental superiors based in head office. The
development activities of the region involving construction of pipelines,



- 46 -                                 Annex 2.01
Page 3 of 5
control stations and meter stations are controlled by the Project Manager
based either in the same branch office or in a separate office in the city.
He is assisted by Construction Engineer(s) responsible for planning and
supervision of work and an Administrative Officer responsible for
administrative and general affairs. The Project Managers, although junior in
status, are not responsible to the Branch Managers. Rather, all eight Branch
Managers and eight Project Managers report directly to the President Director.
5.       With two directors, one internal auditor and sixteen Branch and
Project Managers reporting directly to him the President Director's span of
control is excessively large, leaving insufficient responsib '.itv and
commitment at the Director level. This issue was closely reviewed during
project appraisal. A major draw-back in the present organization is that such
a large span of control of field activities inevitably leads to conflict of
objectives, diffused accountability, inaccurate feedback and weak
management. Some of the undesirable effects of such an organization were
already evident in PGN such as: (a) inadequate monitoring of work programs:
(b) lack of common yardsticks between the regions for measuring progress,
-quality and costs; and (c) lack of appropriate data for establishing the work
norms and unit costs - an essential requirement for evaluating the work in
progress and planning future works.
6.       Restructuring' PGN along the lines shown in the attached organogram
would reduce the President Director's span of control from nineteen to four
and provide for a clearer definition of responsibilities and lines of control,
placing greater emphasis on the functions that require strengthening. In this
organization, the President Director will be assisted by three directors
responsible for: (i) marketing and system operations; (ii) planning and
design, material procurement and construction management; and (iii) finance,
personnel management, general administration and stores, respectively; and the
Internal Auditor. Similarly at the next level, the three directors will be
assisted by sub-directors, each responsible for a major function or a group of
smaller functions. The Branch Managers will be responsible to the Director
marketing/operat-ons and the Project Managers to the Sub-Director
construction. The attached organogram identifies and illustrates the required
functions/positions down to fourth level of management.
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIWUION PROJECT
PGN
Exluffng Organogram
l~~~~~~ IAag                -    - - ec MIa
-~~~~~~~~~~7-
.~~~~~ivc M|ag                         Jfflc -Mc hag;
SL& DW 
Ergran ~    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E,,ibg  I   I Io
bViEh MaWog 
~Wh  M3@   _                                                        WJ4CH OAGAD4OGIA
PO~hM~2.  O6tomf MwCogw
9uia      _         _     Suvf
&QMh MwoW                  Ro_t . m ..og_
karih M CYI                   Medant|
BLcr,ch PonogoQ           Ptleug Paonoge0t
lnWcld E B- O lOR G2
April 11, 1.986
Energy Department



IUS2   Ila Av,u
- -----                       -----          -       -      .-     -        .-I
aa..                                                  -
I~~n



- 49 -                                  ANNEX 2.02
Page 1 of 8
INDONESIA GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Implementation and Technical Management Assistance
Terms of Reference
I. Introduction
1.1.     The Government of Indonesia (GOI) proposes to develop and expand
natural gas utilization in the cities of Jakarta, Bogor and Medan. Perusahaan
Gas Negara (PGN), henceforth called the "Client", will be responsible for
implementing the project and operating the facilA.ties. PGN is a public
corporation placed under the supervision of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy. It is already engaged in the distribution of natural gas and
manufactured gas to a limited number of industrial, commercial and domestic
consumers in the above mentioned cities. Since the project would entail a
manyfold expansion in PGN's operations, it requires institutional
strengthening to enable it to discharge its expanded responsibilities
efficiently. For this purpose PGN intends to enter into a long term technical
collaboration (twinning) arrangement with a prominent gas utility, hereinafter
called the "Consultant".
1.2.     The proposed twinning arrangement will be characterized by a closer
involvement between the two parties than is generally obtained in a standard
client-consultant relationship. It is intended that the twinning utility
should identify itself fully with the needs and objectives of PGN, and would
provide PGN with continuing back-up services, advice, and experienced
personnel over a number of years.
The objectives of such twinning would be:
(a)   to provide sustained technical and managerial support aimed at
strengthening PGN to the point where it can independently
operate all aspects of a complex gas distribution system;
(b)   to assist in the development and implementation of the systems
required by a comuercial gas utility, including:
(i)    design of market development strategies and systems,
including market surveys, pricing, and contractual
arrangements;
(ii)    planning and design of distribution networks;
(iii)    material control aLJ procurement systems;
(iv)    construction of pipelines and auxiliary facilities;
(v)    gas distribution operations and maintenance systems;
(vi)    accounting, billing and collection system;
(vii)    management information and cost control system;



- 50 -                                  ANNEX 2.02
Page 2 of 8
(viii)    advisory service to customers on efficient and safe
utilization of natural gas; involving design of
houselinesp selection of suitable gas firing equipment
and safety procedures;
(ix)    preparation of all necessary standards and manuals for
construction and maintenance of the gas systems; and
(x)    to the extent requested by the Client, advice on
institutional structure and personnel arrangements.
(c)   to provide back-up support in day-to-day technical and
financial operations; and
(d)   to provide conventional technical assistance services in
support of the design and execution of the proposed expansion
project (the Project) as described in Section II.
1.3      The mechanisms for achieving these objectives would include:
Secondment of experienced professional personnel from the
Consultant's own organization into parallel positions in the
Client's organization.
Provision of back-up services from the headquarters
organization of the Consultant.
Design and implementation of a comprehensive training program,
including training courses, on-the-job training, and the
selective assignment of the Client's personnel to the
Consultant's organization for first-hand exposure to
operations.
Provision of specialist technical personnel and services to
undertake discrete tasks as required.
II.      The Proiect
2.1      Most of the activities of the Client over the next five years will
comprise of the expansion/rehabilitation of its gas distribution networks in
Jakarta, Bogor and Medan. This project is the follow-up to the city gas
distribution study carried out by Osaka Gas Engineering Co. (OGE) and
completed in February 1985.
2.2      The main components of the Project are:
a.    evaluation and rehabilitation of existing gas distribution
networks.
b.    construction of about 500 km of high and medium pressure (16
bar/10 bar/4 bar) steel and polythylene pipelines.



ANNEX 2.02
- 51 -                                    Page 3 of 8
c.    construction of pressure reducing stations and ordorization
units.
d.    construction of houselines and servicelines for approximately
1,200 industrial/commercial consumers and 12,500 households.
e.    installation of regulators and meters.
f.    conversion of industrial, commercial and domestic consumers to
gas fuel.
III.  Scope of Consultancy Services
3.1  General   On aslignment the Consultant will promptly plan and render all
necessary advice/assistance to the Client to achieve the objectives set forth
in para I and 2 above within the time frame to be specified in the contract.
Such assistance will include but will not be limited to the following:
(i)   back-up services from headquarters organization of the Consultant
for systems development referred in para 1.2 (b);
(ii)   review of clients existing organization and submission of
recommendations for changes as considered necessary for
strengthening the organization in the functions of a) marketing/-
conversion/consumers service; b) systems operations/maintenance;
c) systems planning/design; and d) project implementation/-
procurement of materials.
(iii) assistance in the implementation of the systems referred to in
Section I above, by providing the services of well-qualified and
experienced personnel from the Consultant's own organization.
While the exact number of such personnel will be determined in
consultation with the Client, it is imperative that at least four
such personnel be posted at the Client's head office to
assist/advise the Client's management and ensure achievement of
the objectives set forth above. These four personnel will cover
(a) marketing/conversion/consumers services; (c) distribution
system operation/maintenance; (b) distribution system
planning/design; and (d) project implementation/procurement of
material; and
(iv)   providing, to fullest extent possible, on-the-job training to the
Client's staff at all levels, starting from the level of sub-
directors downwards. The four personnel referred to in (iii)
above will have as counterpart the respective sub-director of the
Client's organization responsible for his particular
discipline. The advisors will be responsible both for (i) the
successful implementation of the Project, and (ii), through the
full involvement of the Client's staff at all levels in the
execution of the Project, for buildirg up the capability of the
Client to discharge efficiently the functions of a modern gas
utility upon completion of the Consultant's assignment.



- 52 -                                  ANNEX 2.02
- 52 -                                Page 4 of 8
3.2      The Consultant will carry out the assignment using modern up-to-date
techniques of gas industry. He will work in close cooperation with the
Client's representative, henceforth called the '"anager", who will render all
assistance to the Consultant in carrying out the assignment. The Consultant
will render to the Nanager all necessary advice, including but not necessarily
confined to, the items listed in this section, to ensure the successful
implementation of the project. It is understood that the Manager will
seek/receive and the Consultant will promptly render/initiate all such advice
in time; and also that in order to enable the Consultant to be held
responsible for the assignment, the Manager will normally act upon the advice
in time or keep the Consultant advised of the reasons to the contrary. In
general, the Consultant will keep the Manager continuously informed on
progress of the project, particularly with ceference to problems that could
cause delays.
3.3 Detailed Assignments.
3.       The detailed assignments of the Consultant have been specified in
relation to the Project to be implemented by the Client. However, in all
aspects of his work, the Consultant's responsibility will be two-pronged,
aiming both at a succesful Project implementation and at transferring the
know-how involved to the Client's staff. The Consultant will, therefore, be
expected to organize the work in consultation with the Client's counterpart
staff and fully involve the Client's staff in the execution of his
responsibilities, which will include but may not be limited to the following:
(i)    Preparatory studies and engineering.  The Consultant will review
all existing studies, data, designs, and acquire additional data
if necessary to ensure that the expansion of the distribution
systems is carried out in a rational mannner giving due
consideration to long term market prospects. He will, with the
assistance of the Client's staff, fully design the project and
establish the criteria for its detailed design and construction;
prepare the project master plan (CPM) and a project cost
estimate which will be continuously updated with the progress of
the project.
(ii)    Project Management.  The advisory services of the Consultant
will relate to the full responsibilities of the Manager. In
particular the instructions to and reports of the various
suppliers/contractors will be processed by the Consultant for
necessary advice. The Consultant may also render such
management functions as may be mutually agreed with the
understanding that he will at all times and in all situations do
so in the best interest of the Client. In general, the
Consultant shall:
a)   provide the necessary progress and budgetary monitoring
control and information systems to keep all parties
concerned adequately advised of progress, problems and
de-velopments;
b)   periodically review and report actual and estimated
expenditures;



- 53                                    ANNEX 2.02
Page 5 of 8
c)   issue a formal progress report covering all aspects of the
project;
d)   organize and coordinate the efforts of all others
participating in the design, construction and comissioning
of the project;
e)   establish effective communication procedures and maintain
liaison with the Client and other concerned parties;
f)   advise the Client on insurance coverage;
g)   advise the Client on regulatory framework and licensing
requirements for the distribution of natural gas;
h)   advise the Client on the gas purchase and gas sale
contracts;
i)   prepare procedures for all activities involved in the
distribution of natural gas;
k)   utilize and cooperate with the Client's staff to provide
expi-rience and on-the-job training for its personnel to the
fullest extent practical.
{iii)    Proiect EnKineerinz. The Consultant will be responsible for the
timely preparation of all engineering design of the project.
This will include all items necessary for the successful
construction and commissioning of the project such as:
a)   preliminary activities including data acquisition, route
surveys, systems evaluation, etc. depending on the
requirements of each specific ,zoject components;
b)   material and equipment specifications;
c)   codes and standards requirements for construction and
operation of distribution system;
d) flow sheets, diagrams, construction and fabriacation
drawings, and as-laid drawings;
e)   detailed cost estimates;
f) operation/maintenance manuals and inventory of spare parts
for all the installations involved in the distribution of
natural gas;
g)   lists of materials, equipment, material and equipment
requisitions and technical portion of bid documents for
purchase, service and construction contracts;



ANNEX 2.02
54 -                                     Page 6 of 8
h)   construction, commissioniong and start-up assistance as
required.
(iv)    Procurement.  The Consultant will advise and assist the Manager
in establishing procurement procedures covering all activities
and responsibilities from the requisitioning stage to the
receipt of contract services, goods and payment of invoices.
The procedures will include:
a)   preparation of bid documents and purchase orders,
prequalification of bidders, evaluation of bids and
quotations, reco-endation for awards, placement of orders
or contracts;
b)   delivery status and controls;
c)   inspection, testing and other quality control measures;
d)   contract services, material and equipment receiving and
storage; and
e)   payments, accounts and records.
(v)    Construction Supervision.  The Consultant will be responsible
for the supervision of all construction activities and field
services. His responsibilities will include:
a)   advice on establishment of the necessary organization and
physical facilities to enable the execution of these
responsibilities;
b)   Supervision and coordination of all work progress by the
Client, suppliers/contractors and other concerned agencies
with reference to the critical path, so as to notify the
respective bodies of delays, with advice on ways to
expedite matters;
c)   establishing and executing all necessary inspection,
testing and other quality control procedures and measures;
d)   maintaining the necessary records, progress reports and
other management information system;
e)   maintaining "as-built" records, contractual variations and
change orders and negotiating settlements for changes; and
f)   certifying acceptance of invoices and contract services
completion reports.
(vi)    Commissioning and Operating Assistance.  The Consultant will be
responsible for the commissioning and shake down of the facility
and for the first six months (or any other such period that the
Client might vish to negotiate at a later date) of commercial
operations. These responsibilities will include:



- 55 -                                  ANNEX 2.02
Page 7 of 8
a)   preparing and assembling all necessary operating and
maintenance procedures and instructions and plant record
books;
b)   organizing a start-up team.  This team will start-up and
shakedown the facility with the full participation of the
Client's operating staff; and
c) designate and organize the operating and maintenance teams
that will assist the Client's staff to operate the
facilities.
(vii)    Conversion.  The Consultant shall organize the conversion of
industrial consumers to gas fuel and shall take all necessary
actions for this purpose in order to meet the schedule of indus-
trial gas connections provided in the project implementation
program. This will involve, inter alia, detailed surveys of
customers processes and plants, evaluation of available
engineering skill and know-how and estimation of gas fuel
requirements; leading to the design of houseline, estimation of
material requirements and recommendations on suitable type(s) of
gas firing equipment. The recommended equipment should be
simple and robust in design so as to minimize the outage time
and maintenance costs and it should be procureable on
competitive basis in order to make the conversion as cost
effective as possible. As far as possible the services of local
contractors should be used for ir-stallation of houselines and
gas firing equipment.
(viii)    Administration.  The Consultant will review the Client's
accounting, administrative, and personnel procedures and conduct
necessary feasibility studies to advise the Client on suitable
office machines, computer and software. The Consultant will
also assist the Client in writing specifications for hardware
and software to be procured and, after procurement, in
implementation of new equipment and procedures as necessary.
IV.      Assistance to be Provided by the Client
4.1      The Client through the Manager will provide the following services
and facilities to the consultant:
a)   aa.sinistrative assistance in obtaining visa, custom clearances
and any other administratiave permits required by the Consultant
in the performance of this assignment;
b)   existing data, maps, surveys and studies;
c)   office space, secretarial and other office staff in Indonesia;
d)   transport as required within Indonesia;
e)   liaison with government and local bodies;



ANNEX 2.02
_ 56 -                                Page 8 of 8
f)   any other assistance not readily available which the Consultant
may reasonably request.
V.       Proiect Schedule
5.1      The Consultant's proposals must be received by         __     .  It is
expected that the Consultant will be selected by         _        and that a
contract/agreement will be signed by                  . The Consultant would
then be expected to mobilize and start work at the earliest date possible but
not later than     a_ fter the award of the contract so as to meet the
project completion date of _
5.2      It is expected that at least four basic personnel will have to be
seconded to PGN head office for most of the Project period (ref. para. 3.1
(iii)) However, this core team will have to be supported by a number of
support-level engineers during the peak design/construction period. Moreover,
provision should made for short-term specialized assisguments to deal with
such matters as design of MIS systems; review and planning of computer and
office systems; preparation of standard documentation and manuals; tariff
studies; market studies; etc. The Consultant will provide a proposed work
program detailing the timing of each assignment to be discussed and agreed
with the Client. The proposed work program should provide for a phased
reduction in the size of the Consultant team assembled in Indonesia in line
with the objective of ensuring self-sufficiency of the Client in all major
operational areas.
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.01
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Gas Supply/Demand Balance in West Java
(mcfd)
A. Gas Supply                          +   1983    +   1986  1988  1990  1992
Existing Fields  Pertamina          +            +     33   27    20    18
Ex-LPG Plants    +             +     33   33    33    33
Parigi            +            +    130  130   130   130
ARCO     Low      +            +     41   23    10      -
High    +            +     80   66    51    40
New Production   Parigi             +      -    +      50   50    50    50
ARCO GGI Low      +      -    +       -    -    20    20
High    +            +     20   20    20    20
IIAPCO   Low      +      -    +      40   40    40    40
High    +            +      60   60    60    60
Total Gas Supply           Low      +            +    327  303   303   291
High    +            +    406  386   364   351
B. Gas Utilization by Existing Users +              +
Krakatau Steel Corp.       +      77    +    137  137   137   137
Pupuk Kujang (Fertilizer) +       47    +      60   60    60    60
Indon Cement               +      15    +      18
Cibinong Cement            +      10    +      17
PGN (Jakarta & Bogor)      +       4    +      11   21    35    43
Central Java Users         +            +      10   10    10    10
Compressor Use             +            +       5    5      5     5
Total                   +    153    +    258  233   247   255
C. Available for Allocation to New Users
w/ Low Supply              +            +      69   70    56    36
w/ High Supply             +            +    148  153   117    96
Source: Migas
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Gas Market - Fuel Use by Small & Medium Industry in Jakarta (1983)
Gas Equivalent (macm)
No of            Fuel Consumption ('000 kl.)  LPG                          Diesel
INDUSTRY                      Establishments  Fuel Oil  Diesel   Kerosene (000 Mt)   Total   65%    Only
Food & Beverages                    181           28.06    21.2l       1.34       0.1      50.73  32.98  21.11
Textiles & Closing                  333           36.12    23.75       3.29       1.7      65.10  42.32  23.63
Wood, Wood & Paper Products          56            2.56      1.20      0.02       0.4       4.24   2.76   1.20
Printing                            115            5.44      0.10      0.19       0.3       6.07   3.94   0.10
Chemical Products                   128           13.42      2.50      9.21       2.1      27.55  17.91   2.49
Plastic Products                    123           15.56      4.29      0.18        -       20.03  13.02   4.26
Ceramics                              5            0.79      4.89      3.82        -        9.50   6.17   4.86
Glass & Glass Products               16            0.33      9.86    25.68        5.3      41.96  27.27   9.81
Sheet Glass                           2            4.15    51.12       0.00        -       55.27  35.93  50.87             1
Cement Products                      62            2.44      1.94      0.03        -        4.41   2.87   1.93             V
Basic Iron & Steel                   11           57.38    18.32       0.00         1      76.84  49.95  18.22
Metal Products                      140           14.87      1.46      3.33        -       19.66  12.78   1.45
Electronics etc.                     75           13.82      1.65      0.79       0.7      17.06  11.09   1.64
Transport Equip.                     64           17.50      2.93      1.68        -       22.11  14.37   2.91
Other Industries                     18            0.42      0.01      0.02         -       0.44   0.29   0.01
1,329          212.87   145.21    49.56    11.60    420.97 273.63 144.48
Total
Source: Biro Pusat Statistic
10
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Gas Market - Composition of Prolected New Gas Sales
A. Industrial Demand (mmcm)
Timber &
Basic                 Wood
Region                Glass  Textiles  Metals  C(imicals  Products  Printing  Food  Electrical  Pharmacueticals  Total
Jakarta
Pulagadung    +    5.0       8.0     18.0       11.1        0.4        1.5     2.4       1.3              -   +      4797
Tanggerang    +   19.2    39.0        4.0       12.7        0.7        5.2     8.3       1.2            0.2   +      90.5
Pluit          +    3.9      0.5     12.3       10.6          -          -     1.3       0.7              -   +      29.3
Raya Bogor    +    0.6    23.6          -        l.1        0.4        0.4     4.3       2.5            1.6   +      34.5
Serpong        +    6.5    30.2          -         -        2.1          -       -       0.3              -   +      39.1
Ancol          +   52.3        -      4.8        Z.3        0.4        0.4     0.6  .    -                -   +      60.8
Krant Jati    +    3.8       2.6      0.5        1.1          -        0.9     0.6       0.4              -   +       9.9
Bekasi         +      -    14.3      14.3       12.0        0.1        0.7     2.2       0.9            0.2   +      44.7
Total       +   91.3   118.2                 509         4.1        9.1    19.7      .7.3            2.0   +    356.5    o
Bogor              +    3.9    31.4        0.2       5.8          -          -      5.3        -            2.3   +      48.9
Medan
Belawan        +    3.8        -     20.2       11.6          -          -     2.6       0.4              -   +      38.6
T.G. Morawa   +   12.9         -         -      11.0          -          -      1.1        -            0.1   +      25.1
Total      +   16.7      0.0      20.2       22.6        0.0       0.0      3.7       0.4            0.1   +      63.7
B. Commercial & Domestic Demand (mmcm)
Commercial Domestic
Jakarta    +    95.3    +    5    +
Bognr      +      0.6    +  1.3    +
Medan      +      3.4    +  1.3    +
Source:  OGE Feasibility Study
April 11, 1986                                                                                                                    i
Energy Department_



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PGN
System Design
SC)w EL PMSON  MAi
200 mm                                                                                                                             16 SAP
CIT GAIE STAr0O
(RearRedxion
2011m                                                                                                                             10bR
200 nvn                                                                                                                   OISTRIUON aiFPLY MAiN
iso ~      ~ nw>                                                                                                       0 IA
PITESTW REDUCING
STATION                                                                                                                         g
ORE PIPE                                                                                                                      D     fEE 
150mm                                                                                                                     D6TRiUrPfN 4URMAI
100nvn                                                                                                                           4 BAR
RE PFE                       | SEIVICE LiE                       S6RVLCE SL                                           SERMCE UNIE
25mm                        I         ORPEPS!                      P.EPFE                                               P.E. PIE
60 nvn                  ~~~~25mm                                              25 mm
April 11, 198671
EeST NEU Departmen
VwLDED SrEEL PP                        NWE
lSGdOO m BAR            sc~~~~e50  BAR.AIE                                   SCRWEDCLANSD
SARI                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~1-5  A
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- Si -                                                                                ANNE  5.02
GAS DlSTflU1TIgo  PJcr
flmI    ef UU4ttugau
TITa. 9T      fll9,W49 Il * W*1
wTA 33U10 8          000 NhI. (on                      IRW             13- 019Wi"-  o,n                           in- (YIm            Ems  1191
opILI                 MUD              ewt t  wn"                       W2 (mini            VE- iMwn             TM    6`9411         VENo- 5 (FTInl
IUi  5tIEII      t  U IU  F .E. IT r U U F.E.  MAL   LIU  F.E.  TM          LOM    F.E.  ITbLa  LffL.  F.E.  TOTAL  LIEU    F.E.  TOTAL  1.011   F.E.  1011   LIU    F.E. T  T61.
unmu lua
.a                11.43  10.63   22.01   10.39   9.4    20.07        0.34   0.17   0.51   5.32   3.2Z   1.54   1.56   1.74   3.30   1.27   1.66   z.4   1.90 e 2J    4.79
EM                 2.76   2.50    5.27    2.63   Z.1     4.79        0.00   0.0    0.00   0.6    0.63   1.31   0.      0.73   1.2   0.49   0.9   1.07   0.54   0.26   0.30
pow                2.1   2.61    5.4Z    2.66   Z.27    4.3          0.00   0.010  0.0   0.59   0.50   1.10   0.        .2   1.54   0.50   0.7    1.E    0.15   0.4    1.15
min  CIm           0.4   1.71    Z.54    0.76   1.55    2.31         0.00   0.10   0.00   0.85   0.51   e.7    0.25   0.51   0.76   0.26   053   0e    0.        0.00   0.0o
Tiwr  AmSISl61E          0.00   3.30    3.30    0.00   3.00    3.30       0.00   1.05   1.05   0.o0   0.n    c.75   0.00   0.0 o00   0.0    0.45   0.45   OM    0.35   0.15
COa1  61N3 SWFTI         0.00   1.65    1.5    0.00   1.50    L.0         0.o0   0.    0.53   0O   0.30   0          0.00   0.30   0.30   0.00   0.2n   0.23   0.00   0.0   0.0
a  Eii  ETMNf
TAUS a 3m                3.6   0.00    M.       7.41   0.00    7.41       0.2    0.BO   026   Z.19            3.19   1.76   0.00   1.76   1.59   0.00   1.59   1.1   0.00   1.61
BAR c0n                 26.0   22.42   4L34    23.03  20.1   44.02        040   1.74   2.34   9.04   6.06  15.30   5.23   4.60   9.E    4.11   4.0z   0.13   4.10   3.7    09.
PIFSICAL &/        2.40   2.20    4*4    2.3J  z.2    4.4            00    0.u7   0.23   0.90         1.5    .5    0.46   0."    0.41   0.40   0.41   0.40   0.3    0M
PIE  vI            4.44   4.61    9.05    4.3   4.19      .23        0.IZ   L.0   0.00   .0o   0.6s   1.43   03   0.    1.71   0.3   1.1    2.07   1.44   1.44   ZMJ
93-ITL            7.04   6.06   13.39    6.42   6.21   12.63        00   0.Z4   0.31   1.73   1.26   2.9    1.36   1.34   2.70   1.34   1.54   Z.00   1.92   1.01   3.73
TOla.ST   1             3.3  29.2    6U.3    30.25  u6.40   56.65         0.67   1.9   2.65  10.77   7.32  u.09   6.4   5.4  12.55   5.46   5.s5  1l.01   6.72   5s.   12.31
U. TID=
K5CST                    0.00   0.4Z    0.42    0.0    0.3    0.3         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.    0.00     0.00 0. 60a   0.0    0.00   0.00
P111UL  /          0.*0   0.04    0.04    0.0    0.04    o.04         .     0.01   0.01   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.01   0.01   3.00   0.OL   0.01   0.00   0.      0.01
VWuii bl           0.0    0.00    0.00    0."    o.0     0.00        0.o     . .0    .00   .0    0.L    0.0    0.00   0.1   0.01   0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00   0.03   0.03
93-104L            0.0    0.13    0.33    0.00   0.12    0.12        0.co   0.1   0.01 L.0    0.02   0.02   0.00         2 .42   002   00    0.03    .03   0.00   0.04   .04
TOTL On1 I n I           0.0    0.55    0.55    0.00   0.50    0.!9       000   0.0    0.0    0.00   0.9   0.9   0.00   0.30   0.30   00   0.31   0.11   0.00   0.32   0.12
m. -sa   a n-                                                                                                                                 -- - 
130031 A WI.LATION   2.00   5.25   10.13    2.62  13.06   16.43           0e.0    000   0.00   0.32   Z.62   3.14   1.05   5.47   6.52   0.19   4.0   4.7   0.26   1.31   1.9
Tax a 31ES               4.95   0.00    4.95    4.50   0.00    4.5s        0.00   0o.    0.0    0."    0.00   0.0   3.0    0.00   1.0   1.5   0.0    1.35   0.45   0.00   0.45
am Sa                7.0   15.25  2a.0      7.12  13.36   20.90        0.00   0.00   0.00   1.42   2.6    4.04   2.z    5.47   3.32   Z.34   4.0    6.22   0.7   1.31   ze2
93530.sL  al       00   1.52    2.31    0.71  .1.39    2.10          0.00   .0o   0.00   0.34   0.26   0.40    .2   0.55   0.03   0.        0.41   0.62   0.7   0.13   0.20
P3   A/            3.40   3.36    4.77    1.23   2.06    4.33        0.00   o.    0.03   0.13   0.20   0.L   0.45   1.44   1.09   0.43   1.5   1.64   0.2    0.5    0n
93-lTUbL           2.9   4.E9    7.       I.9   4.44    6.43         0.00   0.00   o.     0.27   0.5    0.0    0.73   1.59   2.32   0.70   1.56   Z.26   0.20   0.    0.91
TOTAL CST 5   m  I       10.0z  20.13  3).1    9.11  1.30   V7.41          0.00   0.0    0.00   1.70   3.16   4.36   3e   7.06  10.44   2.U3   5.4   043   1.00   .93   z.n3
ILSFOOIES
LU  Fas3r1 STUDY          0.    0.22    0.22   0.00   0.20    0.20         0.00   02    02    0.00   00   0.0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   0.00   00   0o
E      PZ        Snlr   0.00   1.10    1.10    0.00   1.00    1.0         0.00   0.05   0.05   0.00   0.70   0.70   0.00   0.25   0.25   .0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
UE MST                    5.00   1.32    1.32    0.00   3.20    1.         0.00   0.    0.25   0.00   0.70   07I    .00       25   0.. 5   0.0    0.00   0.o   0.00   0.00   0o
EISE     at        0.00   0.13    0.13    0.0o   0.IZ    0.12         .00   0.03   0.03   oo   0.7   0.7   0.00   0.03   0.03   0.00  0e.0   0.0   0.00   0.0   0.0
3-  bl       *      .00   0.14    0.14    0.00   0.13    0.13        0.0    0.0L   0.01   0.o0   0.00   00   00   0.5   0.05   0.0   D0            0.0    0.00   0.00   0.00
1-10T1L            000   0.20    0.       0.00   0.25    0.25        0.00   0.0    0.03   0.0    0.15   0.15   0.00   0.07   0.07   0.00   0.0    0.00   0.00   0.0    0.00
TEL COST  IV I           0.00   3.40 1.60       0.0o   1.45    1.45        0.00   0.20   0.20   00o   0.5   0.05   0.00   0.32   0.32   0.00   0.00   0.0   0.0   0.W0   0.00
1311. ECT  0 nI.I.mW    43.e   513   9".60   39.36  46.65   0.OI             0.7   2.2a   Z.9   12.47  11.33  23.0   10.22  13.32  23.54   0.29  11.20  19.4    7.71   7.5a  15.24
8/ 10C fr0 al ptut   *lsu,6
i F  lcdl  _puditw9  a in I0-IWO  ad 4.*  Uuvutht
Fit *wtg0    _m vw  n in i-ow. 7.s5 in 190. 7.           mr 3a 19   ?.a   190  d 4.S tiuinu
cr i    1.00 .*uw
April 31. 1986
h.r3f Dmpsrt.nt



- 62 -
ANNEX 5.03
INDONES IA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year         Disbursements             Cumulative
and Semester Ending      during Semester        Amount         %
F787
December 31, 1986              0.7               0.7           2
June 30, 1987                  4.1               4.8          14
FY88
December 31, 1987             4.7                9.5          28
June 30, 1988                  4.8              14.3          42
FY89
December 31, 1988             4.7               19.0          56
June 30, 1989                  4.1              23.1          68
FY90
December 31, 1989             3.4               26.5          78
June 30, 1990                  2.4              28.9          85
FY91
December 31, 1990              2.0              30.9          91
June 30, 1991                  1.4              32.3          95
FY92
December 31, 1991              1.0              33.3          98
June 30, 1992                  0.7              34.0         100
1/  This disbursement profile conforms with the Energv (Gas)
sector standard profile for all regions as of 9/11/85
(no standard profile is available for East Asia and
Pacific Region).
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 63 -
Annex 5.04
Fage ort 4
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1.       The following information is required to be reported from time to
time in relation to the progress of work cn the project and to the upcrations
of PGN.
2.       During the construction of the p.roject quarterly reports covering:
(a) Technical progress
(b) Cost estimates, expenditures and disbursements, and;
(c) Management and operations
should be delivered to the Bank not later than 30 days after the end of each
calendar quarter.
3.       In addition, annual reports on the fulfillment of certain agreements
contained in the loen documents and on the financial situation and prospects
of PGN sh#ll be submitted to arrive in Washington not later than three months
after the end of the fiscal year.
4.       Finally, PGN will be required to send, not later than three months
after the project completion date, a Completion Report Summarizing the
experience with the project and the lessons learned.
5.       The following describes the reports in question:
I. Quarterly Technical Progress Reports
6.       The report should cover the following events:
(i)    physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(ii)    a comparison between the planned and actual iroLress of
construction;
(iii)    changes, events or conditions which would materially delav the
construction of the project or increase its cost and the
Borrower's proposed remedies, if any;
(iv)    changes in key personnel;
(v;    expected completion date.



- 64 -
Annex 5.04
Page 2 of 4
7.       Such progress report shall concentrate on the main physical
components of the project, broken down as follows:
1.   Gas Pipelines
2.   Pressure Regulating StationE
3.   Conversion
4.   Customer meter stations
Progress of construction should be covered in the text of the report and shown
graphically in charts.
II. Construction Schedule
8.       A chart showing planned and actual progress on each of the principal
events referred to above shall be presented.
9.       Simplified CPM or PERT diagrams can be presented with the chart to
give a comprehensive picture of the schedule.
III. Schedule of Orders and Deliveries
10.      A schedule of orders and deliveries for major items of equipment
shall be presented in the following form:
Description of item
Date of bid invitation
Date of order
Nme and address of supplier
Contract amount
Delivery Dates
Original
Revised
Actual
11.      The schedule shall list major items for which orders have been placed
or bid invitations issued, and those for which bid invitations are scheduled
to be issued in the next quarter. The amount in the currency of the contract
shall be shown and its equivalent in US$ to be rounded to the nearest $1000
equivalent.
IV. Quarterly Report on Cost Estimate, Expenditure and Commitments
Statement
12.      The report consists of one table, which should be submitted with, and
cover the same period as the technical progress report. The figures of
original estimated costs should be those used in the corresponding tables
submitted to the Bank.
13.      The table should show any substantial changes in the cost estimates
that have become necessary since the previous report. The reasons for such
changes should be explained in the text of the report. Estimates should be
reviewed and if necessary revised from time to time. Such revisions may be
necessary after important contracts have been awarded.



- 65 -                              Annex 5.04
Page 3 of 4
14.      The table shall include the following:
A)  Foreign costs
- Original estimate                     (1)
- Revised estimate                      (2)
- Disbursements
Previous                              (3)
This quarter                          (4)
Total                                 (5)  - (3.4)
- Balance of outstanding comituents  (6)
- Total                                 (7)- (5 + 6)
- Remaining costs to complete project (8) - (2 - 7)
B) Local Costs
Same as in (A) above.
V. Quarterly Report on Manatement and Operations
15.      This should be a narrative report, supplemented by graphs or
schedules if necessary. The subjects which should be included are:
(i)    changes in key personnel;
(ii)    changes in organization of PGN;
(iii)    arrangements for financing project including overruns;
Uiv)    development of training program for PGN staff and its
implication.
(v)    any significant problems or development in PGN's general
operations.
VI. 2arterly Report On Customer Conversion Fund
16.      The report shall include the following:
(i)    brief descriptions of each applications for conversion financing
(ii)    details of approved applications (amount, specification of
equipment, credit worthiness of applicants, etc.)
(iii)    disbursement
(iv)    any significant problems in repayment
VII.  Project Completion Report
17.      The project completion report is a comprehensive review of the extent
to which expectations and objectives at the time the loan was made have been,
or show promise of being achieved. For each major project component the
origin,l cost estimate and construction time should be compared with the
actual result, with comments on the reasons for the major deviations. Non-
physical objectives, such as the installation of new accounting systems, etc.,
should also be reviewed and the degree of accomplishment described, with an
analysis of the reasons for any delays or lack of success.



- 66-
Annex 5.04
Page 4 of 4
18.      The report should also cover whenever appropriate:
(a) the major problems (physical, financial, management, etc.) which
have arisen, why they arose, and what was done to solve them or
minimize their effects;
(b) the performance of consultants and contractors;
(c) any unusual features of procurement or disbursement;
(d) any unusual procedures of the Bank which gave rise to problems;
(e)  staffing and training aspects of the project;
(f) any deviation from the original financing plan and reasons;
(g) any problems or changes of an environmental or sociological;
(h) the financial results of operations during the project execution
(sales, operating expenses, operating income, etc.) and the
actual financial position and prospects of the company.
(i) any actions which need to be taken in order to maximize the
benefits from the projects (associated investments, further
technical training or advisory services, etc.)
19.      In brief, the report should review the appraisal of the project in
the light of events to date in order to determine if the original basic
assumptions and judgements have turned out to be substantially correct.
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



67-                                                              ANNEX 6.01
Pape  of 4
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIDUTION PROJICCT
Pet and Forecat Income Statemwnts of PCM
(lupiah  Hillion)
EXOIAGE RATE: I USS S 1IO  RP              ACTUAL               ESTIMATE  BUDGET                   FORECAST
IICOIE STATEMENT OF PCN 1A NlIMIN                                        --
FY ENSING W-31   t191        1992      1983     1994     191      1936      197      19       139       IO       1991     199
GAS SALES                      250       3665     4652     8023    1M5    26425    230         3M       609       95       9665    10037
PIPE   NMETER RENTS             243       353      334      630      727       919      919      924      92        931     1012     LZ
TOTAL GAS SAES                 3100      4019     4936     9M3    1291        '       29424    409    61834        4516    97665   102063
COST IF GAS SOLD               1453      179?     1922     364      7153    16361    17762    24255    37243    51112    59103    61723
GAS LUST                        454       695     "91      123      Z458      2926    Z        2926     2437      1200      6        600
OMSS HAIRM  ON GA              1193      1523     2083     3777     3196      815B     997    13509    22154    32204    37962    39741
EUSTONER CIIN. OWICES             0         0        0        0         0        0      121     1250     3040      39W      4149     3457
BY-PROUICTS                      120      14?      140      155      206       2        Z43               243       243      Z43      243
INSTALLATIONS                    35        52      176       70       45        6        69       69       69        69       69       69
TOTAL OTER  INInE/AIET           155      195      316      225      253       311      432     1562     335Z      4296   - 4460     3769
ADINIST1RATION         I          2       969     12Z9     1273     157       2348     2626     3093     3699      4203     421      946
uDiSIRIUTICIN                   306       474      629      764     1001      2419     2734     3069     39        39       4339     4773
DEPREDIATID                     789       995      979      931     1246      2552     2491     2919     3349      5105     53I2  t65
TOTAL OPERATDIC MIST           1987      2429     237      2973     3774      7319     751      9100    1103L     3        14772 
OPERATDIN  INCIE               -639      -705     -3B      1029     -325      1150     1418     5970    14467    23249    Z76       2ZZ6
INTBEST IECEDO   OTES           424         0      274      349     1106         0        0        0        0         0        0        0
IITERST PMD                       0       290        0        0         0      647      134     1941     4336      56n      6129      500
DlJClE TAX                        0         0        0        0        0         0      443     1404     3540      6145     7526     79
SOCAL FU0N2D   OF Ta             0         0        0        0        0         0      168       25      M119     226      279      226
MET PROFIT                     -215    -995       -164     1377      792       503      67      2100     5Z73      9144    11196    11302
OPSCUNRIT                         0         0        0        0        0         0      442     1444     30        Q27      7697     mo
RATE BASE                            92       9692    10528    12042    21503    34796    40256    44309    53160    650        71804    79955
IEUUD RATE BASE                                                         36400    42500    N000    58400   n7400 O        400   100100   111200
EU   ON NET FIED 1) B     VIL.  -6.!'J   -7.27!   -4.16         9.54Z   -1.512    3.31!    2.002    9.12!   19.086   22.76!  24.13!  21.202
ASSETS IN OPERATION 2) REVIJ   BASIS                                    -3.24      2.05Z    0.55!   6.76!   12.99!   16.53    16.95Z   14.67n
REF--GASLES   . ML    UCTU       60        64       50       67       77
MiLt1ON N3)       ESTINE                                                   153       1S9      220      334      464       537      561
-AW. SES  PRICECW/03)          4B        57       93      119      157       167      1        10 190   1SO       19O      190     1t0
April 11. 1986
Energy Department



- 68 -                                                         ANNEX 6.01
Page 2 of 4
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Past and Forecast Income Statement. of Jakarta  Branch
(Rupiah MilliLon)
IlCOlt STATEMENT OF JAKARTA BRANCH  1'                             ACTUAL  ESTIMATE  BUDGET    -                    FORECAST
FY ENDDIG NAP-31 i191         1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      199      1 1999    1999     1D        1991     1992
GAS SALES                                                    1706     4564    12525    13500    21600    37260    54900    6360    67500
PIPE I METER RENTS                                            129       j99       79       79        79       B1        91      104       127
TOTAL GAS SALES                                              IB34     4763    12603    13579    21679    37341    541P0    63464    67627
COST DF GAS SOLD                                              400     2071      7269     9255    13209    22794    33571    39745    41276
GAS LOST                                                      522     1300      1379      1379     1379     1276       862      360       395
GRSS fMRGIN ON GAS                                            913     1393      3955     3944      7092    13290    20549    24360    25e66
BY-RDDUCTS                                                      0        0         0        C.        0        0         0        0         0
INSTALJTIONS                                                   16        15        0         0        0        0         0        a         0
TOTAL OTMER INCE/NET                                           16       15         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
ADMINISTRATIN                                                 316      353      1077     1206      1351     1513      1694    I1e7       2125
DISTRIBUTION                                                  Z42      299       656      749 0      52      972      1109     1263      1440
DEPRECIATION                                                           475       76e      927       goo     1499      2290     2471      3123
TOTAL OPERATDIG COST                                          556     1126      2501      781      3102     3983      509      5631      669
WERATING IE                                                   371      293      1454     1l63      390      oz       15456   l07ZQ    lPZ70
IITEREST RECEU   t OTHEPS  ZX                                 '1       50        47        0         0        0         0        0         0
INTERST PAI  A OTHERS  2;                                                                  26       543      990      1913     2136      1804
INCONE TAX  Z/                     0         0        O         0        0         0      392      1200     2905      4734     501l    6110
SOCIAL FUND(0% OFAT 2T             0         0        C .                0         0      149       440     lO2       1762     2159      2273
PET PRFU                           0         0        0       3'1      333      1501      596      1797     *330      7047     8633      0091
DIP CONTRIBITIGN                   3         0        0         r        0         0      410      1236     279       4B45     59        6250
RATE BASE                                                         6139     7304      7957    12394    12016    21959    25030    25°02
NET FXD ASSETS AT END FY    4893       735      7213      8601     8490    19!97    Z350W    26525    32954
RETURN ON NET FIXED        ON BOOK VALUE                          4.611   19.9ri    '.92%   19.99%   44.192   40.91S   43.032   42.06Z
ASSETS IN OPRATION .1'
PEF-GAS SALES OL   ACTUAL          6         6        8        12       25
MILLION M3)       ESTIMATE                                                    75        75      120       207      305       352      375
-AVE. SALES PRICE'RP/M3                                     143      192       167      190       1so      180       190      180       180
1I  NO DATA FOR YERS BEFORE 1993 IS AVAILABLE. COINERSION REVENUE/COST IS NOT INCLUDED IN THIS STATEMENT.
Z!  A0OE VALUES ARE APPROXDIATE BASED WUON BEST CURRENT ESTMATE.
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 69 -                                                           ANNEX 6.01
Page 3 of 4
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJEC
Past and Forecast Income Statements of Uoltor Branch
(Rupiah Million)
DIN E STATr   NT FOR E P OM         UP NIUM ) 1/                   ACTUAL  ESTIMATE  I     FORECAST
FY ENDIDNGMAR-31    1991      1912      1M3      1984      1995     1"6       1997     1999      199      1990      199       199
GS S9ES                                                      N27       2315     5511     5940      7740      9414    10566    1ZP78    196
PIPE   IETEP !NM TS                                            97       117       33        33       33        33       33        33       33
TOTAL GAS SALE                                               2024      2432     5544     573       7773     9447    10S9    13011    13029
COST OF GAS S6                                                46S      1326     3591      3632     4733     5757      6461     7936      7947
CAS IOST                                                      116       377      575      575       55       29        177       65        65
CROSS  amRI ON GAS                                           1444      730      1378      1766     2465      3401     3961     5010      5017
BY-PRDUCTS                                                                0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
INTALATINS                                                     11         5        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
TOTAL OTHER lINCNIET                                           11         5        0         0        0         0        0                  0 O
AINISTRATMN                                                   244      299       349      391       437       490      549      615       o89
ISTR      ON                                                  123       79       224      256       292       332      379      432       492
DEPRECmATION                                                            100      251      276       290       356      561      748       841
TOTAL OPERTDING COST                                          367      477       924      922      1009      1179     1498     1794      2022
OPERATDIG DICE                                               109       258       554      944      1457     2223      2473     3215      2995
INTEEST REMEIED I OES    2!                                                                  0        0         0        0         0        0
INTERST PAID I OTIERS  2/                                       3       101        0        9       116      276       464      600       557
INCD E TAX  2/                     0         0        0         0         °        0      286       463       675      697      909       847
SOCIAL FUID2DOZ OF  T) 2/          a         0        0         0         0        0       110      175       254       6       34t       318
NET PROIT                          0         0        0      1095      157       554      439       702      1017     104'     1365      1273
DIP CONTRIBITION                   0         0         0        0         0        0      302       492       6ee      721      939       95
RATE BASE                                                         1956      2395     2619      U65      3385      5327     7027      7Y
NET FD ASSETS AT END FY    1392         31      2440      27Q7     2517      4254     6400      7655     937
RETIRN ON NET FDIED        ON BOOK VJALUE                        13.88Q   23.22X   17.10!   30.79!   38.20!   n9.412   2?.96:  22.899
ASSETS IN  PERATION (ZO
REF-GAS SALES VOL   ACTU            1        9        13       14        13
(MILLION K3)      ESTMTE                                                       33       33        43       52        59       72        72
-AVE. SALES PRICERP/H31                                     133       190      167      190       190       too      190       190      180
1/  NO DATA FOP YEARS BEFORE 1993 IS NAAILABLE.  CW SIOI  REVENUE/COST IS NOT INCLUIED IN THIS STATEMT.
2'  ABOUE VALUES ARE APROXIMATE BASD UPON BEST CWRRENT ESTIMATE.
April 1.1, 1986
Energy Departuent



ANNEX 6.01
- 70-                                                           Pa8e'4 or  4
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Past and Forecast Income Statements of Medan   ranch
(Rupiah Million)
INCOME STATEM     FOR MAN BACH (RP MILLION)  1/                    ACTK   ESTIMATE  B-U                             FOECAST
FY ENDDIN  MAR-31    191     1982      1993     1994      1993     1996      1987     1989      1999     19        1991     19
GAS SALES                                                     276      116      1291     1391      2651     6557    10445    12641    12767
PIPE I NMEER RENTS                                             20       20       592      592       5B2      582        82      512       582
TOTIL GAS SALES                                               296      336      1973     1973      3233     7139    11027    13 i23349
COST F' GAS SOLD                                              152      204       403      851      1621     4010      6397    M-O        7907
GAS LST                                                        19       24        57       57        57       63        75       75        76
GMOS  1GIN ON GAS                                             125      107      1322     1065      1555     3066      4565     5418      5466
BY-PRODUCTS                                                     0        0         0         0        0        0         0        0         0
DISTALLTIONS                                                    3         1        6         6        6        6         6        6         6
TOTAL OIER INCME/NT                                             3         1        6         6        6        6         6        6         6
ADINISTRATION                                                  9°6     105       119      134       150      168       199      210       236
DISTRBUTION                                                    99       71       347      395       451      514       596      668       761
DEPIECATI                                                               55       259      461       431      482       658      821       950
TOTAL OPERATDING CST                                          194      232       725      990      1031     1164      1431     1699      1947
OPRATING IHCOME                                               -56     -123       603        81      529     1909      3140     3724      3525
ERBEST RECEIED A OUTERS  21                                     5        3         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
NTERST PAD I OeRS   /                                                                       15      179      374       544      666       629
iNCOIE TAX  ZN                     0         0        0         0        0         0       17       11?      531      90Z      1064      1009
SDCIL FIID(ZOOF AT) 2              0         0        0         0        0         0        10       47      201       330      39        378
MET PROFIT                         0         0        0       -51     -121       604       30       187      903      1354     1595      1511
DIP COUTRDUTIO                     0         0        0         0        0         0                129      552       931     1097      103Q
RATE BASE                                                          483     2455      4379     4091      4593     6249      7902     9024
NET FXD ASSE   AT END FT      507       460     4451      4306     3875      5290     7Z05      93.°    9650
PEUN  ON NET FIXED         ON BOWI  URLE                        -25.53?   24.59?    1.23%    8..95    75.67?   30.39%   28.098   23.71%
ASSETS IN OPERATMI  (1)
PEF-GAS SLES VL   ACTUAL           2         2        2         2        2
(MLLION  3)       ESMTE                                                        8         8       15        36       58        7Q       71
-AE. SALES PR1CE(RP/H31                                     136      160       167      180       19G      180       180      180       to0
1/  NO DATA FOR YEARS BEO   1983 IS AVAKL E.  COMEN REVE COST IS NOT INClED IN THIS STATMN.
2/ ABOE VALUES ARE APPROXMTE BASED UPON BEST CMURRET ESTIMATE.
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 71 -                                                ANNEX 6.02
GAS DlSTRI3UTIO PROJECT
Peat  d Forne.t slaeu  Sets of Pon
(Rupiah million)
lOlASE M1E: 11" *  111t MP    ^ ACTUAL                             ENTIE Fno                           FORECAST
9UAIUEffPGIWILLIURll l -     --
ASE             Fr BR NG  -31    1931          1992     1M        1M        1M       199       1997      IM       199       199      199       1"992
LAND                              210      LIO       235       2w     15        19M      1959      1590 o 1I=         150    1           1tw0
OlT    FI     ASSETS            13353    13943    16024    17575    2235    29           399    43        63279    7624    17622   1O90
LESS: Ae.   FSEcITIN             3633     46U       4633      366      6WU       963     11930    1499    tB697    203    2t15    36179
IET FDED ASETS                   995      1430    12         10       34547    3 5    4546         4714      3M       noll    76597       014
VW  IN DrlrS                     1377     3636      3954      6955     561       9913     459      193    U14         11        1523      4000
TMTAL FIED ASSETS               11331    1306      15579    19314    40219    47m        5006      67021    7M117    BZ409    91979    9m4
CAS aUANKS                        393      719       578       133      20       -416.  300         3n         400      400       400      400
ACCOETS RE       mIV EE           526      943      1073      1M        17       3522    37"        526      8117    1u1        1291    135
PEPAYMIT                          141       161      17        433      672       672      500      5so        500      500       500      500
D TREIII                         1119     2501      3433     456       437       437      4903      5m       6151      6939       76      9642
0118 lR CUET ASSETS               544       20        s5      1339     5575      555      z200      2000      200z     2000      2000    z20o
TUTDL C       fN ASST            Vz3      4344      5355     7735    1342    1330    11502    136I           171U     20z       23497    24993
RECE IA V  FM  COW.                 0        0         0         a        0         0      964      903918  5236    1659        16595    11063
TIE UEPOUT                          0        0         0      1764     1572         0        0         0         0        0         0      160
1N LCEU.                        6du        46        12        22      VI        VI       300       300       300      300       300      300
TUTUL OM   ASSE                   697       46        92      17m      13         V1      126       93    NI          16        16095    1153
TOTAL ASSErS                    14741    17456      1016   z29        55104    61960    62932    mv    10969   120231   132270   1330
LIABDITIES
GIN. EINIY    aNTT              11211    163       1916     24614    2992    33769    343          60339    45729    49535    53965    5395
RETlIDED  EG    S              -1705    -2700    -2691    -1425        -170      1964     2074      Z731       379     7236    10735    14267
RSEVAUATIUN  3ESEI!              2685     2685      1925      1925   Z269    2069    20269    2026s9    2269    226s9   20269    20269
TOTAL ENUIff                    1192    16024    19600    25113    49041    5503    5713    63339    7377    77061    84969    9o9
LUNITERN DEBT                       0        0         0         0        0         0     179    2662    36507    39205    35397    25426    17407
ACMUNTS PATALE                    960     1231      1302      154      1331      1323     1500      1500     1500      1500      150o    150o
HISCELLIJEUIJS                   1267      m         591     1921      4337      4337     2o0    2000        2000      2000    10019    1001       10198
TOTAL CURRENT WLI    TES         2227     2009      1993     3365      56t8      S        3500      3500     3500      3seo    11518    11519
OSTI    DPIIsrI                   321      349       377      362       395       399      400       400      400       400       400      400
SCELLANEUS                          0     -925       341         0        0         0        0        85        15       95       95        95
TUTUL o1B  LIABILTmS              321     -576       718      362       3Y5       399      400       495      45        495       495      495
TOTJIL LIA ITIES                14741    17456    21011   Z20    55104    61960    62932    999    10969   I2031   13270   1230
___m   =                                         U=                      - n             m  --3==
OrN    RATIO (TUIB)        1.22      2.16      2.83     2.30      2.30     2.43      3.Z9     3.8Y      4.9       5.98     2.04      2.17
DEBT M0T I EUIT)           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.03      0.26     0.33      0.34     0.29      0.22
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDWNKSIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Past and Forecast Sourcee and An:I0caton  Ctateaents of PGN
lRpa   il"l on)           ttmnso                G
EICVE RATE  I MUSt   1100 RP                 A C T U A L            ESTIMIE  GUMET                       F OP FE t A S T
fIms FLOR STATUENT or PN RP KILL ON) -                 ------------ -  --  ---- --                 ----                                                     W. CALCULATIOP
rY ErDDIc W-31    I11          1992      1963      1964     IM5       196       197       191       199      I90       1991      I92      17-
IET PROFIT  FORE INTEREST        -639      -705      -430      1029     -325      1150      141       $9'0    14467    23241    27650    27226    72752
DPRECIATIOIN                      7'        915       976       931     1246      2552      2491      2911     3649      5105      5012     655    20176
INTRIW. CASH WIIATIOH             15       260       540      1960      '21      3702      3909     61       11317    21353    3342        3791    9292
!TITS      EMC    I OTIERS        424         0       274       149     II0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0
MY, COITIIUTIWI  (DIP)           1559    4U27        3127     5447      4329      462       1070     5500      5390      3106      4330        0    20096
DIC SE IN LT I ST O T               0         0         0         0        0         0      1749    20913    11544       t652      6164        0    47322
AITIW(EIIt                       -174      -        -2556     -330       76t      1531                                                                   0
TOTAL SOIICEIS                   I99       5107      2366      7426     7125    1O00        6726    35301      5I    31611    439          33791   160347
PF    ED  PRECT                      0        0         0         0         0        0      15"    I6E73    12945    119         13203         0    511096
OTHE  711STIIET                  1795      2719      249       4452     4066    10292       3000      1000         0        0      2000     4000      6000
TOTAL CPITAL IINESTIIET          1795      2719      2491     4452      4066    10292       45"     1"73    12945    1139         152M3     4000    64096
IlTEREST PAID                       0       20          0         0        0       647       134      1941     4336      5672      6129     5500    1211
MOT1ATIW'                           0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0      1953      2953     9S72      3907
TOTAL MET SERVICE                   0       290         0         0        0       647       134     1941      4336      7621     102      15472    22116
TAX I SOCM  FUND                    0         0         0         0        0         0       611      1929     46        5431    10325    10424    26156
COmU  IN IING CAPITAL             -31      1642      1126       907     3005       69        -66      2126     3540      3761      25MO      1497    11926
CHME IN OTHE  ASSETS                13     -641        36      1710       51    -1572        *93      N074     6247      1309         0    -5372    16623
CHWI  IN OTHER LIABILITIES        -29       997    -1294       356       -33        -3        -2       -95        0         0         0         0      -07
COHTHISUTIOH                        0        0         0         0         0        0       462      1444     365       627       767      7'70    19515
TOTAL REUUIEENTS                 1749      5106      2367     7425      7109    2006        6721    35301    35551    36611    43956    33791   160347
S:333333333333333            333333333333:333333333sm     3a3S3S= 3 33=3x3S3133=333330333Sao=3 _3=3=3  *=3=_2 =ax3222 =333=2  332
XOT SERVICE COWRAC          -        0.97                                   5.72    2Z920       4.5       4.22     3.72      4.14      2.16      4.20
'TIIES)
REFiCM.CULATION OF NRTIATIOI
OF LDI EXCEPT FOR STUDT/CDIH    1991    12            1963      191       IP35     1916      1"?7      1         1919     2O        191       m2       IM        Im4       195       1996     I?97
OWEnG BSLANiCE OF LOM               0         0         0         0        0         0         0       735     776      13361    16704    24867    22301    IM4    17407    14920    12434               1
tOITIOlblL LOI                      0         0         0         0        0         0       75      6990      5597      5342      664          0        0         0         0         0     0 
MOTI2ATIOd                          0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0     2417      247       247       2487   24 7  2       7 2
LMMWE AT END OF TEAl                0         0         0         0        o         0       785     7764    13361    29704    24567    22391    IM4    17407    14920    22434               947 
IPTEPEST  PADO 612  P,A.            0         0         0         0        0         0        47      513      1261      1924      2614     2635      2536      223       1940     1641      1343
ADJUSTRIINT11)DIFF DPR O/N IS/ML                            -96t      -216       295
2MI1FF INC19DECR IN RE    -174                  171      -111       473     1531
3)DFF REVAL KSEW                               -760
April  1I.  1986
Energy Department



- 73 -                       ANNEX 6.04
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1.       The financial projections are based on:
(i)    Financial Statements for FY81-83 as prepared by PGN and audited
by the State Board of Audits;
(ii)    Financial Statements for FY84-85 as prepared by PGN, and amended
to reflect FY85 revaluation of land;
(iii)    FY8S budget;
(iv)    Long-term plan for FY87-91; and
Cv)    Past financial policies and changes in those policies as
indic.ated by GOI and PGN.
2.       The financial projects are expressed in current rupees, assuming
an average inflation of 6% in 1986-91, and a constant excharge rate of
Rp 1100=$1.O.
Income Statement
3.       Revenue projections assume a constant gas sales price of RP 180/cu.m.
as from FY87 onwards, and sales volumes according to the OGE feasibility studv
with a minor modification by Bank staff. Charges for customer conversion are
assumed to equal 25Z of outstanding receivables for that purpose.
4.       Gas is assumed to be purchased from Pertamina at USS2.7/mmbtu, or
approximately Rp 107/cu.m.
5.       Gas lost is expected to decrease substantially once new distribution
pipelines are put into operation and would by the end of project period reach
a level of less than one percent of total sales.
6.       Administrative costs (mostly salaries and wages) are expected to
increase by 11% per annum as from FY86. About 6% is due to general inflation
and 5% to real term increase. Furthermore, 4% of PGN receivables for customer
conversion have been included in administrative costs to cover insurances and
maintenance.
7.       Distribution costs are expected to increase by 13% per annum as from
FY86. (6% due to inflation and 7% in real terms).
8.       Depreciation charges have been calculated Pt an average rate of 10%
per annum of net fixed assets in operation according to currently prescribed
procedures.
9.       Interest paid is calculated at 122 p.a. of PGN's average outstanding
debt for recent Bank funds and 18% of Government Bank loans.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6.04
Page 2 of 3
10.      Income tax is calculated at a rate of 15% for the net income up to 10
million Rp, 25% for the net income between 10 and 50 million Rp, and 35% for
the net income over 50 million Rp according to the Income Tax Law of 1984.
Social fund contributions, which has been treated as a tax, is calculated at
20% of after tax income, according to PGN's statute. Since under Indonesian
tax laws, losses can be accumulated up to five years for tax purposes, income
tax and social fund are expected to be paid only as from FY87.
11.      Development fund (DPS) payment from PGN to GOI is treated as a
distribution of after-tax net income in accordance with PGN's statutes. A
rate of 55% of after tax 'acome has been used, which may be on the high side
as these rates are likely to be reduced when the new higher taxes have been
introduced.
Balance Sheets and Sources and Applications Statements
12.      Work in progress is assumed to equal capital expenditures for the
year and to be put into operation by the end of subsequent year.
13.      Cash and bank deposits, ?repayments and other current assets are
assumed to remain at about the same levels as in recent years.
14.      Outstanding amounts for customer conversion have been treated as
other assets.
15.      Inventories are assumed to increase at a rate of 122 as from FY87 in
line with the increase of sales volume.
16.      PGN's surplus funds are expected to be held in time deposits accord-
ing to current practice.
17.      PGN's cash deficits are expected to be covered by about US$18.3
million in Government equity contribution and by GOI bank loans.
18.      Long term debt consists of IBRD and GOI commercial bank loans for the
project execution and conversion.
19.      Current liabilities include the current portion of long-term debt.
20.      Customer deposits are assumed to remain constant as from F37.
Revaluation of Assets
21.      PGN fixed assets in operation have for financial orojection Purposes
been revalued up to FY89 according to the Bank's MUV index in dollar terms,
adjusted for variations in exchange parities between the US dollar and the
Indonesia Rupiah as follows:



- 75 -
ANNEX 6.04
Page 3 of 3
ue
T0 84   85    86      87    88    89    90    91    92
& Change from                 1)
Previous Year (MUV)        67.0X  1.3I   7.22   6.82  6.82  7.02  7.12  4.02 4.02
(RP Million)
(1) Fixed Assets In Operation
UPTO      84                29.4  29.8  31.9   34.1  36.4  39.0  41.7  43.4 45.1
Addition  85                      23.72)25.4   27.1  29.0  31.0  33.2  34.5 35.9
Addition  86                              7.1    7.6   8.1   8.7   9.3   9.7 10.0
Addition  87                                      8.9   9.5  10.2  10.9  11.3 11.8
Addition  88                                            4.6   4.9   5.3   5.6  6.0
Addition  89                                                  19.9  21.3  22.2 23.1
Addition  90                                                        13.0  13.5 14.1
Addition  91                                                               11.4 11.9
Addition  92                                                                    15.3
Revalued F.A. In Op.        -   53.5  64.4   77.7  87.6 113.6 134.7 151.6173.2
(2) Accumulated Depreciation
UPTO      84                 9.2   9.3  10.0   10.7  11.4  12.2  13.1  13.6 14.1
Addition  85                        1.2   1.3    1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7   1.7  1.8
Addition  86                              2.6    2.8   3.0   3.2   3.4   3.5  3.7
Addition  87                                      2.5   2.7   2.9   3.1   3.2  3.3
Addition  88                                            2.9   3.1   3.3   3.6  3.8
Addition  89                                                  3.8   4.1   4.2  4.4
Addition  90                                                         5.1   5.3  5.5
Addition  91                                                               5.8  6.0
Addition  92                                                                     6.6
Revalued Acce Depr.        -   10.5  13.9   17.3  21.4  26.7  33.7  40.9 49.3
(3) Revalued Net Fixed
Assets in Operation         37.9  43.0  50.6   60.4  66.2  86.9 101.0 110.7123.9
(4) Rate Base 3)                  -   36.4  42.5   50.9  58.4  71.4  88.4 100.1111.2
Notes:
1)  Fixed assets, except for land, revlaued in FY80 and this revaluation entered in
PGN's books. The 672 change refers to the average revaluation for the period of
F 80-84.
2)  Land has revalued by RPs 18.4 billion in FY85 and this value was tnered as an
acquisition for the year.
3)  In FY85, PGN started to sell land not needed for Its gas operations.  Such land,
valued at RPs 4.0 billion in FY85, has been excluded from the rate base.
April l}, 1986
Energy Department



- 76 -
ANNEX 6.05
Page 1 of 9
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return - Sensiivity Analysis
With Taxes         Without Taxes
Case                     & Social Funds      & Social Funds
(1)   Base Case                          29.5                 65.3
(2)   Capital Cost +10%                  26.8                 58.2
(3)   Operating Cost +10%                27.8                 59.2
(4)   Revenue -10%                       24.3                 45.5
(Sales Price -10Z)
(5)   Cost of Gas +102                   26.9                 52.9
(6)   Combination of                     15.9                 27.7
above (2)-(5)
(7)   Cost of Gas +25%                   20.3                 35.8
(8)   2 Years Delay of Gas               24.6                 44.3
Supplies from Pertamina
(9)   2 Years Delay of                   22.8                 39.2
Project Execution
(10)  Sales Volume of Gas -20%           23.8                 49.8
(11)  Sales Volume of Gas -50Z           15.4                 28.6
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDON8SIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJUCT
Finsuci&I internal late of lAturo - Sensitiviit Anaysm1s
lI 1  UllTI KaLI   MFIASII         X P T F   Ir FM    ON II1IE   WIFIED
t. TOTAL P6UCT         EXCIW      ATEh  1 ISS * 1100 I
l.l BASE CASE WITH TAXES ETC.
1967   196   1939   19O   199    1M    1m3   194   1995   1996   197   1991   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   205   2006   2007   2006
DOCESTIC IWL.RATE  6.001  6.002  6.002  6.001  4.502  4.50t  4.50t
INDEX FOR DEFL      1.000  0.943  0,990  0.940  0.803  0.769  0.736  0.736  0.736  00736  0.736  0.736  0,736  0,736  0,736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736
CUIICRE. GAS             0     62    190    306    379    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403
(MILLION K3V
SALES PRICEI(RP/131   IO      1S0 180    1    80   N180    10    180    180    160    180    180   I18           150    190    1SO    190    too 1tN   1N     I       Io    180    1SO
COST OF CAS(RP/N3)   110    110    110    110 l       10    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110
1) REWUE STREM  (IfLOW)
NOINAL TEII         0  11160  32400  5506   6220  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540  7250  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540  72540
REAL TERM           0  10528  Z3   44246  54812  55773  53372  53372  53372  53372  53372  5372  53372 53 3         72  53372  53372 55 3  72 533 3    53     53372  53372, 53372
2) COST STMEI (SOUTFU4)
2)-le CAPITAL COST
NOIKUW           15" 61873 12943 113   1323               0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0
REAl             159  1705  11521   9570  10672           0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0
21-2, COST OF GAS
NOMINAL             0   6824  19913  33681  41717  44351  44358  44358  44358  4435   44358               U1.8  44356  4435   44358  44358 4435   44356  4435  4435  44358  44U3
REAL                0   6433  17633  2826   33511  34105  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  3U67  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637
2)-3, OERATDIC COST
NOIINAL           240    524    863   1261   1597   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   197$   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976
REAL              240    495    76    1059   1283   1519   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1451   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1414   1454   1454
3) TAXES I SOCIAL iUM
NEIAL               0   2172   5270   8844  10621  10439  10439  10439  10439  10439  1u439  !.'39  10439  10439  10439  10439  10439  10439  10439  10439  10439  10439
REAL                0   2049   4690   7426   8534  8026   7681   7U61   7681   7681   7611   7661   71   7681 766 6    766           1   768 1   768 1   768 1   7681   7681   7681
4) GAS RECUMERATED
NOMINAL             0       5    401   1638   2319   2014   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434
REAL                0       5    357   1375   1863   1871   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791   1791
IMCRUITAL
ICT CASH FLOIW  !NOMINAL   -938 -17229  -6090   1533   3322  18201  18201  18201  18201  18201  18201  19201  18201  18201  18201  18201  18201  18201  18201  18201  18201  16201
IREAL      -1838 -16253  -5420   1287   2669  13994  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391  13391
I)-2)-3X44)
Fll:   29,53S
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIEUTION PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analvsi.
4OK0ETY UNIT  MILLION PUPIANS'RPI EXCEPT FOP 'iHERE OTHERIISE SPECIFIED
1. TOTAL MRJECT         EXCHANCE RATE: I USI : 1100 RP
1.2. BASE CASE WITHOUT TAXES ETC.
1987   1988   1f98   1990   1991   1992   1Q93   1°S4   1995   1"6   1W7   1998   19"9   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2006
OCESTIC INFL.RATE  6,002  6,007  6.002  6,002  4,50:  4,50t  4.50%
1INEx FOR ODEF.    1.000  0.943  0.890  0,840  0.o03  0.769  0.736  0,716  0,736  0,730  0,76             0736 0.736  0.76  0.736  0,736  0.73;  0.76  0.6  0.'3. 0.736  0.736  0.736
CUIUINCRE. CAS           0     62    180    306    379    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403    403
'AILLION MI)
SALES PRICE(RP/N31    180    18(    180    190    190    180    190    180    180    160    180    180    180    180    180    180    180    1go    too    160    to0   1t0
COST OF rASIRP/N3)    110    110    110    110    110    120    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    110    II0    110    110    110    110    110    110    110
11 REWAII STPANI 'IWLOIII
PONINAL TERM        0  11160  12400  55080  68220  72540  '2540   20  '540  72540  72540  '2540 7              40  '54   0  '254 0   2540 '2540   72540  72540  72540  72540  72540
REAL TERN           0  10529  28836  46246  54912  55773  53372  53372  53372  53372  53372  53372  53372  53372  53372  53372  5337: 53372  53372  53372  53372  53372
,I COST 3TREAI 'OUTFLOW)
2'-1. CAPITAL COST(EXCL TIFOPT TAI I WUTIES'
W)RINAL          1451  16387 10877   °413  10313           0      0       0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
REAL             1451  15459 9677   7920   8669            0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
V-2. COST OF GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                1
NOMINAL             0   6824  19913  23691  41717  44259  44258  44358  44358  44358  44358  14358  44358  44258  44258  44356  44358  *4358  44356  44358  443    44359                               0
REAL                0   6438  17633  28280  33518  34105  32637  3263' 32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  32637  3267  326r  32637  326$'
"-7, OFERATINC COST
NeiOL            140    524    863   1261   1597   1976   1°76   1976   1976   1Q 6   1976   167.   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1976   1'76   1lre
REAL              240    4°S   7'6    1059   1283   1512   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454  "V.e   1454   1454   1454   1454   1454
3' TAIES I SOCIAL FUPO
NOMIAL               0      0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0      O       O       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
REAL                0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Al GAS PECUPERATED
NMINAL               0      S    401   1638   2319   Z434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2414   :434   2434   2434   2434   2434   2434
REAL                 0      5    35'   13'5   1863   18'1   1791   1791   1791   1701   179 1 1 191   1792   I'91   1701   1791   1791   1791   1'91   1701   1791   1791
ICKKRENTL
MET CASH FLOW   IOINAL   -1691 -12571   1252  1224Z  16413  280640             28640   28 640   2o40 8640  286      28640                  0  286 20640   28640   280 2  28640 4 ZO     28640  2.     2840
- --      --   IREAL        -1691 -11859   1114  10363  13187  22020  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072  21072
1 '-28 -lu448
FIR!.   65.301 ?d
April  11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return - Sensitiwitv Analysis
MIKTAPY LlIT! NILLION RPIJAHS'PP' EXCEPT FOP IIEPE OT3ERRUISE SPECIFIED
II. CITY OF JUMAPAT   EXCHAI/E RATE: I 2Sa 1100 RP
11.1. BASE CASE UITH TAXES ETC.
1997   1989   1999   t90   to1t   lZ   1e03   3904   t905   190  39            7   3909 0 19       2000   2001   7002   2003   2004   2005   2006   '007   2008
QO0ESTIC INFL.RATE  o.002  i.00   6.002  6.00l  4.50S  4.502  4,502
INCEY FOP DEFL. I.000  0.904   0.890  MM.9  0          03  0.769 o.736  0,736  0.716  0.736  0.'36  0,736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.76  0.36  0.736  0.776
COIM.IICRE. GAS          O       5    132    230    27'    300 300   300    300   300    300   300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300  3030    0
:IIILLION r3'
SALES POICE'P/13)   180    190    190    380    180    190    190    190    190    180    I90    180    190    190    180    190    190    180    180    180    190    190
COST oF CAS(RP/N31   310    310    110    3l0    3I2         2t2    230    2I2       220    l2t    220    320    110    220    110    220    110   l2t    220    210    110    110
I REYENUE STREA (IIUFLOW)
IOINAL TERN         0   9210  23760  41400  49060  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  5000  54000  54000  54400  54000  54000
REAL TERN           Ct  764' 2114t  34760  40061  415S3  30731  39733  39731  34'31  39733  39733  3e731  39331  39731  3e731 37311337333  39'3333973e 3911  39731
. COST STPEAM (OUTFLOW,
2?-1. CAPITAL COST
WONINA           1971  1379Q  6225    9759575              0       0      0       0 ?)            0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
REAI             197  t31 809  5540   5017769?             0       0       0      0               0      0       C       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0
'-2. COST OF GAS
lNOINAL              0   4953  14529  25316  30489  33021  73021  33021  33021  33021  33021  33021  32021  32021  33021  33021  33021  730Z3  330Z1  73221  33021  13021
REAL                 0   4671  12931  21256  24407  2539'  24295  24295  :4295  24295  24295  24295  24295  24295  245  24295  24295  24295  24295  24295  24295  242e5
?1-3. OKPATING COST
NOMINAL           100    :19    162    509    763   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   103'   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037
REA               I2P     206    322    428    613    707    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763
1' TAYES I SOCIAL FUN0
90IAkL               I   I966   4559   1330   9763   9999   9999   9999   6799   8599    5999    B99    991   1fl              9 98 97  1    9 Be 9 QS99   8999   5591  Mg   931 9
REL                      176I60   4057   6154   7041   6M4I   6547   6547   6547   6547   6547   654-   6547   6547   6547   6547   6547   6547   6547   6547   6547   6547
"G GAS PECUPEPATED
NOIIINAL                    I    106    320   1045   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1041   1043   1043
REAL                 0      1      94    437    94t    902    767    767    767    767    767    767    767    767    767    76'    767    76'    76'    767    767    767
INCRfEIITAL
NEI GASh FL1U  :MOMINAL   -1' '3 -12716  -190    2770   1314  l0987  12097  12097  12097  12097  12097  12087  12097  12097  12097  12087  1'.087  12097  12097  12067  12097  12057
. ------  :REAL        -1973 -12015  -2630   2342   1056   9204   8993   5903   8993   9993   9998    9993   8899   8993   9993   9903   9/93   8893   9993   9893   9993   O993
FIRRP   '°-40 R
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRlIBUTION PROJECT
Financtal Internal Rate of Return - Sensitivitv Analyses
MONETARY UNIT: MILLION RUPTIS'PFI EXCEPT FOP WNEPE OTHEPWISE SPECIFIEI
11. CITY OF JAKIAMA   EXCHANGE PRblE  I USS a hlOO RF
11.:. EASE CASE WITHOUT TAXES ETC.
19o7   1los    1'S'   I9Q0    1491   too,   1"03   3494   3045   1°°6   1°°    tics   logo   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   t005   :006   2007   ZOOS
DOMESTIC INFL.PATE  6.00t 6.00?  $.30t  6.00?  4.50;  4.50;  1.50t
WOE? FOR OEFL.    1.000  !  3'3  0.690  0.840  0.803  0.769  0.136  2.716  0.736  0.176  0.716  ).*,6  ).-36  0.736  0.736  0.163  0.736  1.136  0.136  0.736  0.736  0.736
UM.IMCRE, GAS           A      45    132    230    2"70 300    300    300    300    30(0   30C    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    3                 300    300    30
HILLION M31
SALES PRICE'PPM3)   380    180    380    1            80    190    180    180    180    180    180    190    180    180    180    180    180    180    180    18o    180    180
COST OF GAS(RP/M3      3 110    IIQ  I1Q    110    330 110 1                              10    110    110    110    110                               310o  I3o 110    110    110    13 3I It0 ISO    llt    II
I; WENEPUE STREA (INFLOW
NMINAL TERM         '   9100  237$0  41400  4'860  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  5410   54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  54000  5J000  5J000  54000
REAL TERM           C   7642  21146  34760  40061  41510  39731  30731  3;731  30731  30711  30731  30'31  39731  39733  30731  39731  39731  39731  39731  39131  39731
2' COST STREAM  bOUTFLOW)
Z'-1. CAPITAL CDT'EICL IMPORT TAY I DUTIES
NOMINAL          17:5  11990   5001  4So?   7681              0      0  0        i      O                      0      0       0      0       0        O         0          0      0
REAL             1725  11312   4451   4032 61'2          C'      0       0       0      0       0      O       t      3           0      0          0       0      0       0      0
"-2 COST OF GAS
NOMICOS L           0 AS53  1452' 15316  30489  330:1  330231  33021  33021  33021  33021  33021  330;1  33021  33021  33021  33021  13021  33021  33021  33021  3302i
REAL                 '  4673  32933  21256  2449'  2538'  24U95  24295  24295  24245  242°5  24295  24295  24295  24295  24295  24295  24295  24295  24205  24295  24275
2'-3. OPEPATING COST
NOMINAL           100    f19    362    509    '63   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   103    1037   1037   103    1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037   1037
REAL              300-   206    32    428    613    70"    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    763    '6?    763    76?    763
3i YAVES   SOCIAL RUND
SOMIAL              i       0                                                   0       0       0      )       0      0              0 0     P      0       0 s            0 
PEAL                        0                     C                      0      0 t             C      C 3                                           O      C. '  0  0  0  0  0 Q
J GAS FECUPERATED
40MINAL                     L 1    106    S:O   1045   1041   13043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   403   1043   1143   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043   1043
REAL                G       I     °J    437    3J0    8t2   '67    70         76'    76'    '6       767    767   7'6       76'   7'0      767    767    767    767    767    76'
INCPEMENTAL
NET CASH FLOIW  tAUMlNAL   -1824  -')61   3073  11292  I1;1  2WE5  20'85  20995  20995  :085  2099320995 :0oo5  20985  20985  20c9                      5 20985  20995  20 5 20985  20°55  205
PREAL      -1824  -8549   3536   9481   763l   16135  15440  15440  15440  1544fi  15440  15440  15440  15440  15440  1544;  35440  1544u  15440  15440  15440  1544t
FIRP'   70.9e%
April 11, 1986                                                                                                                                                                                                     Is
Energy  Department



INDONESS A
GAS DISTRIEUTION PROJECT
Financ1a  Internal hteof Roturn - Senit1vitv Analsis
NETAPY UITi: MILLION RUPIAMS(PP) EXCEPT FOR SAlE OTHERWISE SPECIFIED
111. CITY OF HOP        EXCIAE PATE: I US$ a 1100 RP
111.1. BASE CASE  IITH TAXES ETC.
Q97   19  9"      9    19 0 5 I 941   IQC2   1993    Q44  13095   1996   I"7?   199          10"9    2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   20M0
ODJSTIC IFL.PATE  6.002  6.002  6.00S   6S.O0    4502  4.502  4.502
DMC FOR tfL.    1.000  0.943  0.890  0.840  0.803  0.769  0.734  0.736  0,73 0 0.736  0.736  0.736 0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0                       -.3   0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736
tMU.MI   GAS             0      I0      IC      26     P       30      3'      39      3'             39 39           39 39           39     3       39      3      39      3'      3' 
INRLXUN Ml)
SALES  IICEIRPR3S    10o    1t0    180    180    150    180    180    180    180    180    10    280    180    180    280    190    10    100    130                        80o    100   1to
COST OF CASAIPP3    210    510    lID          120    220    220     110              2 20    10 I I0    110    110 I I0    110    110    110 IIO                  1 10  20I       I1     220
1' REVR  STREMK  M111OW)
"mm   TEM            0 1800   1474   4626   703   '705    '016   105    '056   706   7056   7056                   706   7056          '0 70    56 70 56   7   056   7056 7056       705O
REM   1M             0S1698   302   384   5655   54t5   5191   5191   5191   5191   5191   5191   5191   5191   5191   5291   5192   5292   5191   5121   5191   5291
21 COST STREA I'OUTFL)
21-1. CPITA  COST
P1W.               26    2228025    211    1551             0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0
EMfL               261  215    2541   778   1246            0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0
2Z-2. COST OF AS
P0    .              0   1101   2124   2829   4304   4315   4315   4315   4115   4315   4315   4315   4325   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315                                   m
REPM                 0 1 038   IPI 2375   3456   332'   3275   3175   3175   3173   3175   3175   317S   3175   3175   3275   3175   3175   31'!   3175   3175   3175
Z-31. P041111  COST
P01M                34     73    113    177   255 3              344 144 344              44    3     4 3       344      443  4 30      3t4    344    344    344    144    3W4    344
REA                 34    .60    102    14        205    265    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253
31 TAXES I SOCTIA FUN
"m                   0    '12   1076   1124   1417   1261   1261    262   126i         1241   1261   1 I61   1261   1261   126 IUI    UI               I      UA     IUI   1U2    1U2
EM                   06 72  958  944 113  970  92s  928  928 92n                              9 m    m   m92  m    m    m    m    m    m    m9     m  1
41 C04 FEODOATED
L                    o 0          zn 293          520    510    510    510     510          510     510     510    5o1  510     520    510    510   s5O    510   s5O    51o    510
EML                  0    0 263  334  410 392   375  375  375  375  375  375  375375175375  375  375 3 375 375   3
PET CASH FLOW  N: L           -2P5  -2365  -2440  -1223        22   1646   1646  16    3           1646   1646   1M6 464 144 6   116   1446   164    1646   1646   1646   2646   2646
IREAL        -295  -2231  -2136  -1027        18   1 266   121   2212   1211   1211   2211   1211   1222   1211   1222    1211   1225   1211   1211   1211   1211   1211
I1-!1-3144)
F11s19 24.062
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS  DISTRIBULTION  PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analvsis
MCNETARY UNIT: MILLION RUPTAHS.S'e' ECCEPT FOR WEPE OTHERWISE SPECIFIED
111. CIT) OF B0GOF    EVCYANOE RATE: I USA a 1300 RP
:11.:. BASE CASE WITHOUT TAVES ETC.
[Q87   19B8   1.999   ["00   [99%   [32   [993   [4 too5   ["69[9'[ 1@97 logo                     :000   2001   1002   2003   $0'04 z0          006   '00'  1008
DOMESTIC INFLIPATE  6.00l e.OO   7.0Ql i.OOt  4.50  4.50  4.501
INDIA FOR OEFL.    1.000  0.943  0,990  0.e4'0  0-803  0.769  0.'36  O7.'6  0.736  0.-16  0.736  0.736  0-726  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.736  0.716  0.316  0.726  0-736  0.736
CUM.INCRE. GAS           CQ    I0      3o     26      30     30      39     30      30     3c      39      39     39      39     3°      39     39      30     39      30     3'      39
'MILLION $3'
SALES PPICERP'31   190    390    [90    [90    190    390    [90    [90    [90    [80    [90    [90    190    [g0    t90    190    190    190    190    to0   t[o    130
COST OF GA9'P!M?'M   [IC      110    220   IQ       3I3    1120    [I    I[Q      [10    Ito    11Q 13   3        0 IIQ     II   110     330    I20    220    110    110    3I0    110
1' PEVYEKE STREAM IIWFLOU
NOMINAL TEPR             1 a00   1474   4620   '039  '050   7056  '056   '056    O5Si   7056  '056   7056   '056   '056   '7056   '05t   70056   7056   756   705e   7056
REAL TEPR           0   1698   3002   3984   5655   5425   5191   5139    5391   51l1   5139    5191   5139    51°9   5139    5139    5139    51°l   5193   5192   5139    5191
:' COST STKEM  'uUTFLOI)
7'-1. CAPITAL CO!T(ECL IMPOPT TAY I DUTIES'
NOMINAL           261    912: 426  1710   12'7                   0       0          0       0       0      0          '2          0      0           0      0       0      0       0
REAL              261   1324  215°   1436 3026            0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0
'-:. COST OF GA5 S
NOMINAL             0   1101   :124    .29e   4104   4315   4315   4235   4315   4215   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315   4315
REAL                     1 3039  1[°l   23'5   ?459   3317   3175   3175   317' ?1 '3   3375   3175   3175   31X5   3375   31'5   3[75   3175   3375 3375   3175   315
.1-3. OFERATING COST
NOMINAL            14     12   113    17'    255    344    341    244    244    344    341    144 3           44    344    344    244  24 4    244    244 34 4           344    344
REAL               34      6'    101 3    40    205    265    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    253    .53    253    253    253    253    253    253    253
3' TAYES   SOCIAL FIJD
4OiMWAL             O       0      A       0  t!          0      0       0       ?      0  ?           0           0      0       0          0       10     0       2      0       0
REAL                           0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      C. O        0      0       0      0       C.
I' GAS RECU6PPATED
NOINAL             ')       0    2'5    398    ilO    510     51C    510    510    510    510    ¶1t0         10    910    510    510    510    510    510    S10    510    510
REAL               Ct       0     63    334    410    392    375    375    375    3"5    3'5    375    V'5    375    375    375    375    375    375    375    375    375
INCRIIINTAL
NET CASH FLOW  INOMINAL    -25  -[207   -s9          309   1713   290?   2907   2907   2907   2907   2907   .907   2907   207   790g7   I'07   2907   290'   _07 7           907   2907   207
--....-----.  [REAL        -2°S  -1223   -7"6    25'   1374   2235   2133   2130   2133   2139   2133   213'   2133   2139   2139   2133   2133   213'   2133   213'   2132   2133
I 1 21-?1fal
FIRp:   44.297
Apr1l 11, 1986
Energy  Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return - SensitivIty Analysis
60NETAP7 UJNIT! A!LLIMN PUPIAKS'PF  EYCEP'T FOP WHEPF OTIEPWISE SPECIFIED
IV  CITM  OF MEDAl    ELCHANGE PATE' I USI * 11'C PP
1U.1. EASE CASE L ITH TAXES ETC.
l'87   1989   1989   lo0  1991   19QQ2   1002   1904   1995   1996   1997   1Q5   leee   2000   "O{yI   2NiO  Z003   tJ0J  205 0                   006   Z007   2008
OD0ESTIC INiFLrATE   MOC    6.00:  6.o00   6.00l  4.50l  4.501  4.501
IINEI FOR 3EFL.    1.000  0.43  0.890  0.940  0.803  '.769  2.736  0.7,36  0.716  0.726  0,726  0.716  0.736  0.736  0.716  0.726  0.736  0.736  0.726  0.736  0.736  0.736
CKINiWCRE GAS            0             2'      50      62      63    6d       61      63    6.       63      62     62      63      63     62      63      63     63      63    6o       62
i*ILLIOI fi1
SALES PRICE(PIN31   180    180    180    180    19to    180    190    190    180    to9    18o0    10    190    180    190    190    18o    ISO    190    190    190    I1o
COST or  AS'RP/%3%   I10    110    110    110    110    11o    11o    11             lit    1l0    11QI       P 10  110    11..   1IQ      110    110    110    11Q    IIQ    110    110
PEUEIJU  STREAM (INFLOW)
i'ONAL TEPR         '   1)260    1166   7054  11:50  11376  11376  11376  11326  11376  11376  11376  11376  11376  11376  11376  11376  11376  11376  11376  11276  11376
REAL TERM            0   1189   4598    6Q'2  '03'   974'   9370   8370   8370   937'0   837    9370   8370   9370   8790   8370   9370   8370   8370   6790   9370   8270
COST STREAM (OUTFLOVI
2t. CAPITAL COST
NOMINAL            61  2084  171 2129    :3                0       0       0      0       0       0      0         00           0       0       0      0)0             0      0       0
PEAL              26l1  966   242 21 s88  17"                      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0 Q             0      0
:1-2. COST o; CAS
MOMI4AL                   "70   2150   5517  6979   4QU6   6956  6456   6956   6956   6956   6016  6S56   6956   6416   6956   6506   6956   6956   6956   69                        s 6956
REAL                 .   7.'2   2922   464'   5527   5340   sil  5$11    5228   5118   Site   Sip   Silo   5119 5119                5118   5118   5118   5119   5118   5119   5119
Z-2. OKFpATIAO COST
NOMINAL            10      67    111    143    234    311  31 1    311  31 1    211    311    31               311    311    l11    311    311    311    311    I11    I11    311
RE/.L               70     6       go    137    198    230    229    22'    22'    229    22'    229    220    220    229    22'    22'    22'    22'    229    229    22'
31 T4YES I SOC2iM FriD
WOMIAL               A    :t0    849   Ol6   1633    1483    1483    1493    1493    148          3   1483   1483   1483   1483   ,483   1483   1493   1483   1483   1483   1483
REA.L                0    l5      '56   1189   1312   1140   2091   1091   1091   1092   10l1   10Q1   1091   1001   2092   1Q91 109            1 ID1 1 102   1091   1091   1092
4 GAS RECLPERATED
UOMWA.               t!        ~    °  ~13 -18    -19    -to    -19    -19    -19    -19    -19    -19     -19    -19     -I'     -19                -19 -_l         -19    -19    -1'
PEAL                 0      0      -5    -15    -14    -15    -14    -14    -24    -14    -24    -24    -14    -14    -14    -24    -14    -11    -14    -14    -24    -1'
INCHRENTAL
MET CASH FLOW  tWO0IAI.K   -201  -1862  -1690  -*09    247   2607   2607   2607   2607   260'   '607   2607   2607   2407   2607   2607   :607    407   Z607   Z607   :607   2607
-------------  .REAL         -291  -175*  -II'S   -175    198   2004   1919    1291   1'19   1'l1   2928   1Q16   1918   I1S1  l1016   1919   'll    1019   1918   1'19   1'19   1915
FlPRt    '7.67'
April II,  1986
Energy  Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJRCT
Financial  Internal  Rate  of  Return  -  Sensitivitv  Analvsis
4O#tETAR) UNIVT  MILLION PUPtIHS'PM EXCEPIT r   uEPtE OTNERUISE SPECIFIED
It'. CITY OF MEDAN      EXCHANGE PATE: I US: 2 3100 PF
CtJ. E SASE CASE UITHUIT TAVES ETC.
1997   1Q95   1°5°    ocyr   j,'i    l:    1003   10%4   1005   3q6   i'7   I°)    Ig"    :OO    :'001   :00:   :007   :004   :05   2006   2r4t   2008
DOMESTIC INFL.RATE  b.O0G   S.00%  6,001  2."1%    .502  J.50%  1.50t
INDEY F0P DCEFL.    1.00  0.43  0.5'0  ¾9.40  .).803  0.7$°  0.'16 t0716  O.'? 3             X.716  0.716  0.'16  0.776  0.736  ).736  0.71?  '1.736  0.136  0.716  0.176   V,734  0.74
CUM.INCRE. GAS                   7       °'   Y5    6S          6       tS     613      6?     63      63      63      63      63      3      631    63       6?      63      63      63     61
'MILLION N3i
SALES PRICE;RP'M     1  80    19c    too    too    leo    lao    leo           too iso        too    too    too           lO t         oo io  180  1o  sootito  iso    iso 11o
COST OF GASIRP'13'   110    11t    1!G    13           330130    1      30 113         3 113P  31G   3I        10o   1I3      330    30    1I3       310    130    011       1130    33     110
; RtEVENUE STREAM ;INFLOW)
lNOINAL TERM         3   .:SO   5166   °05J  11;5)  1137$  11176  11376  11176  1177i  11t3e  11376  11276  11376  11376  11376  113i 6  11376  113'6  11376  11374  11176
REAL TERM            C   lIP    4599   '60C   '03°   8747   837t:  537Q   6370,  9370   8370   937              83      9370   8370   9370   837(   6370   8370   9370   9370   8370
Z' COST STREAK iOUTFLO41
>1   CAPITAL COSTIEXCL IIWOPT TAY I DITIE5i
NOMINAL            761   1760    ' °9 1720i  1936           I               O       0 P        '            0       0      0       0       0       C               0       0      0       0
REAL               261   1660  2045   1444    147S          p0      t 0     C.      C       C,      0       C.      0       0      0       0                       P 0             C .
*%eCos, or GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                   g
NOMINAL              0    '0?   3159   5327 i 6679   '56   6956   6956   6056   6056   iC56   6996   6956   6956   6956   6956   656   696   605b   6916   69i5    6956
REAL                 C    7'7   2812   4640   552'   0349   5336   5338   5338   5118   5338e  5338  51 8 5 51                    3 9   533    5118   5338   5338   53          18    531 6
2)-3. OPEPATING COST
NOMINAL             30      i7    III    103    214    313 1              311     311    11 311    311           311    311    311    311    I11         311    111     311     3 II 111
PEAL                30      64      '9    137    188    23'    22         '2'     .^'    22    220    22°    '22        229    22'       ,'    220    22'    22'    22'    22'    22c
3) TAXES I SOCIAL rJND
PE40AL               0       0       0       C      .       0       0       p       O       0       0       0       O      0       0P      0       A       0       0       0      0       0
REAL  0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    0    0    0    0.    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0.
41 GAS PECUFEPATED
NOMINAL              0       0      -i    -1E      -19    -1      -19    -1o    -1'    -t1    -19    -10    -19    -19    -Il    -19    -19    -1'    -1l                -1'    -19    -19
REAL                 0       0      -5    -15    -14    -15    -1        -14    -14    -id    -14    -14    -14    -14    -14    -14    -14    -i'    -14    -14    -1i    -34
INCERENTAL
PET CASH FLOW  :NOMINAL    -:°1  -13i3    -406   1616    'O3   4,Qo    P0 JO    4090   A090   40G0   4090   4090   4090   *0oi    419    40'0 4040               40 0   40490   4090   40°O   mo0
_   _ -------  'REAL        -2Q3  -1262   -363   135'   1835   3145   300'   3009   300'   300'   300'   3009   3009   3009   300°   300'   3009   300°   300'   300'   300'   3000
FIRP:   64,817
is::82
April 11,  196o
Energy Department



-85-
AmnX 6.06
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Risk Analysis - Monte Carlo Simulation
L.      A 400 case Monte Carlo simulation was done on the financial rate of
return (after taxes), based upon the following simplified assumptions regarding
probability distributions:
(i)    capital expenditures - uniform from 5Z less to 20Z higher than
projected
(ii)    cost of gas - skewed between 20% less and 252 higher than projected
6iii)    operating cost - uniform from 52 less to 252 higher than projected
(iv)    taxes and social funds - normal vith standard deviation of 10%
(v)    sales revenue - skewed between 202 less and 302 higher than
projected
(vi)    gas recuperated - uniform from 50  less to 10% higher than
projected.
2.       The simulation gave the following results:
:_m ,., m             mi   m
0 .. 6m.
''   -11m._                tow*
a         w M
"._~~~~69
*   *., *X            m.
90am
a7  S."           m   9.m
9.is * _          m      * 6.9
*   g.m          a    *.00
*   g.m           J   g.ma
a   g.a.          ,   *._5
eas.,,,      Zmm9
S@  g.u           J    .
Ap.ril.            7n.18
E. r.g            a   *._
as  ..a           a    *_m
-   *._a          *   lad
m.aa 
as   .            g    g.m
*_       g.m          I
..m     .     a       *   ,.
La      g.ma              a
a.,,   ,.S.*              *
April 11~~~~~~, 1986g 
Energy~~~~~~.m                        in.,,.en



INDONES IA
GAS DISTRIBUTION  PR EJECT
Economic Analysis - Whole  Prsoect - Base Case
(US$ millions)
Volue, of Cas Sold             Volu e Replaced             Value   Operator             Not
Capital Costs       0 a n    Cost    Total                    (IKNIU                      (000 Nt)                of Fuel    0U9               Bkeefits
Distrib-             Costs   of Gas   Costs               Irdustry                   ----    -------------   Replaced Savings
ution   Conversiori                                      I Come.  Daoestic  LPG         F,0.    Deisel  Kerosene
..--     ----      ------.  ----      ----                . ..... .  ------. . ......  ........ ......    ------ .. .. ..... ............    
1      2.7       0.8      0.0       0.0       3.5                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0                -3.5
2     13.9       2,4     Ot        5.8      22,2               62.0       0.0      2.7      31.2      24.1      3.0       8.4       0.1              -13.7
3      7.0       3.4      0.7      15.9      27.0              179.7       1.3      9.9      90.0      69.5      8.6      22.9       0.3               -3.8
4      6,1       6.9       1.0     25.9      39,8              302.9       3.1      15,9    152,5    117,9      14,5      36.2       0.5               -3.0
5      9.0       5.1       1.3     31.2      45.6              372.9       5.7     21.2    187,7    145.0       17,9      43,8       0.6               -1.2
6      0.0       0.0       1.6     34.6      364Z              394,9       7.5     23.7    198.8    153,6       18.9      49.6       0.7               13.0
7      0.0       0.0       1.6     35.9      37.5              394,9  '   7.5      23.7    198.8    153.6       1899      50,6       047               13.7
8      0.0       0.0       1.6     39.1      39.8              394.9       7,5     23.7    1989,      153.6      19.9     54.1       0,7               15.0
9      0.0       0.0       1.6     41.1      42.7              394.9       7.5     23.7    198.8    153.6        18.9     589.8      0,7               16.7               1
10      0.0       0.0      1.6      45.0      46.6              394.9       7.5     23.7    199.9    153.6       19.9      64,9       0,7               1819 .9
11      0.0       0,0       1.6     46.2      47.9              394.9       7.5     23,7    198.9    153.6        19.9     66.8       0.7               19.6
12      0.0       0.0      1.6      47,5      49.2              394.9       7.5     23.7    199.8    153.6       18.9      68.9       0.7               20.3
13      0.0       0.0       1.6     49.8      50.5              394.9       7,5     23,7    199.8    153.6        19.9     70.9       0.7               21.0
14      0.0      0o0       1.6      50.2      51.8              394.9       7.5     23.7    199.8    153.6       19.9      73.0       0.7               21.8
15      0.0       0.0      1.6      51.6      53.2              394.9       745     23.7    199.8    153.6       18.9      75.2       0,7               22.6
16      0.0       0.0      1.6      53.0      54.7              394.9       7,5     23.7    199.8    15346       18.9      77.4       0.7               23.4
17      0.0       0.0       1.6     54.5      56.2              394.9       7.5     23.'    199.8    153.6        18.9     79.8       0,7               24.3
18      0.0       0.0      1.6      56.1      57.7              394.9       7.5     23,7    199.9    153.6       18.9      82,2       0,7               25.1
19      0.0      O0.        1.6     57,6      5943              394.9       7.5     23.7    199.9    153.6       18.9      84.6       0.7               26.0
20      0.0       0.0       1.6     59.3      60,9              394,9       7,5      23,7    198.8    153.6       18.9     87.2       0.7               26.9
Replaceeent Fuels
Cony.Factot            t1fl135111u1113132 111flh11fl
(Mt/NC")               * 
KPV   USt    68.8 eillions    a
LPG                    0,97                *                                    3
F.l.                  0.959                *    IRR z         30.71 %                                           'W3
Diesel                0.926                *                                    3
Kerosene              0.913                IEIUIIIIEEIIUIIlIIIEIIII ;IifhIUII
NOTE:  For detailed assunptions underlying econonic analysis see Anne. 7.2
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONES I
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Jakarta - Base Case
(US$ millions)
Volume of Gas Sold             Voluee Repla2ed             Value   0perator              Net
Capital Costs       0£ IR    Cost    lothl                    (NNcn)                      (000 Nt)                 of Fuel    U8N               Benefits
Distrib-             Costs   of Gas   Costs               Industry             ------------------------------   Replaced Savings
ution   Conversion                                       I Comes   Dosestic  LPG        F,0.    Diesel  Kerosene
1      1.4       0.5      0.0       0.0       too                  0         0       0.0      0.0      O0O        0.0      0.0       0.0               -1.9
2     1O.O       1.7       0.1      4,4      16,2                 45         0       2.0     22.7      17.S       2,2      6.1       0.1              -10.1
3      2.9       2,5      0.6      12.4      19.4                131         1       6.6     66.0      5049       6,3     16.9       0.2               -1.7
4      3.5       5.8       0.7     20.7      30.6                228         2      11.7    114.8      89.7      10.9     27,2       0.4               -3#4
5      5.4       4.4       0.9     24.3      35.0                273         4      15.4    137.4    106.2       13.1     32.0       0,5               -3.0
6      0.0         0       1.2     27.5      29.6                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14.1     36.2       0.5                7.6
7                          1.2     28.6      29.8                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14.1     37#7       0,5                8.0
a                          1.2     30.6      31.7                295         5      17.2    149.5    114.7       14.1     40.3      Os                 9.6
9                          1.2     33,2      34.4                295         5      17,2    148.5    114,7       14.1     43.8       0.5                9,4
10                          1.2     36.7      37,9                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14.1     48.3       0.5               10,c
11                          1.2     37,8      39.9                295         5      17.2    149.5    114.7       14.1     49.9       0.5               10.9
12                          1.2     38,9      40.1                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14.1     51.3       0.5               11.2
13                          1.2     4041      41,2                295         5      17,2    148.5    L14,7       14.1     52S9       0.5               11.6
14                          1.2     41.3      42.4                Z95         5      17.2    149.5    114.7       14.1     54.4       0.5               12.0
IS                          1.2     42.5      43,7                295         5      17,2    149,5    11407       14.1     56.0       0,5               12.4
16                          1.2     43.9      44.9                295         5      17.2    1489.5    114.7      14.1     57.7       O05               12.9
17                          142     45.1      46.3                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14.1     59.5      O5                13.2
18                          1.2     46,5      47.6                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14*1     61.2       0.5               .13.6
19                          1.2     47.8      49.0                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14.1     63.1       0.5               14.1
70                          1.2     49.3      50,4                295         5      17.2    148.5    114.7       14.1      65.0      O'5                14.5
Replacement Fuels
Conv.Factor            tiuI.5133151d351333133113s13331
*    NPV z USS    37.6 millions    I
LPC                    0.'                I
FO.0                  019rJ9               2    IRM           26.32*                             
Diesel                A 126                I
Kerosene              0.913                *1fl1312n n sn m U n31  t m  m n1 s                                o °
NOTE! For detailed assumptior.s underlying economie analvsis see Annex 7,2
April. 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTlON PROJECr
Economic Analysis - Bogor - Base Case
(US$ millions)
Volme of Gas Sald             VolW RePlaced               Value     etator             Noet
Capital Costs       0 I N    Cost    Total                   (NNCN)                      (000 Nt                 of Fuel    1N               kenefits
Distrib-             Costs   of Gas   Costs              Industrv             -           ---------------    Relad Savings
ution   Coiwetsion                                      I Co.   Domstic  LPG          F.0.   Dbisel  Ketosen
1      0.2      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.3                  0         0        0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0               -0.3
2      1.6      0.3        .0       1.0      2.9                 1O         0      0.4      5,0       3,9       0.5      1.4        .0              -1.5
3      146      0.4       0.1       1.8      4.0                 19       0.3      1.1       9,6      7.4       0,9      2.5        .0              -1.5
4      0.7      0.5       0.2       2.3      3.7                 25       0.7      1.7      12.6      9.7       1.2      3.0        .0               -0,7
5      0.7       0,3      0.2       3.4      4.6                 3        11      2,6      19.1     148        1.9      4.5       0.1               -0.1
6                  0      0,2       3.6      3.8                 38       1.2      2,7      19.1     14.8       1.6      4.7      0.1                 0.9
7                         0.2       3,7      4.0                 38       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.9       1.9      4.9       0.1                1.0
8                         0,2       4.0      4.2                 38       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.8       1.9      5.3       0.1                t.O
9                         0.2       4.3      4.6                 38       1.2      2,7      l9.1     14.9       1.9      5.7       01                 1.1o
10                         0.2       4.9      5.0                 38       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.9       1.9      6.3       0.1                1.3                3
11                         0.2      4,0       5.2                 39       1.2      2,7      19.1     14.9       1.9      6.5       0.1                1,3
12                         0.2       5.1      5.3                 38       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.9      19       6.7      0.1                 1.4
13                         0.2       5.2      5.5                 36       1.2      2.7      19,1     14.8       1.8      6.9      0.1                1,4
14                         0.2      5.4       5.6                 38       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.8       I.9      ?.1       0.1               15
IS                         0.2      5.6       5.9                 39       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.9       1.9      7.3     o0l                  1,5
16                         0.2      5.7       6.0                 39       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.8       1.8      7,6      0.1                1.6
17                         0.2       .,Q      6.1                 38       2.2      2.7      19.1     14.8       1.9      7.3      0.1                 1.6
19                         0,2      6.1       6,3                 38       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.8       1.9      8.0       0.1                1.7
19                         0.2       6.3      6.5                 39       1.2      2.7      19.1     14.9       1.9      9.3      0.1                1le
20                          62 i.4            iS                  7Q       1.:      2.' t".1          14.8       1.7      8.5       0.1                1.8
Replaceserit rueih
'Nlt 'lCI'             *                                    I
*    WPR   US1     3.2 millions    a
LPG                    0,9'               I                                    I
F.o.                   0.95               *    IRR           19.42             t
Diesel                 0.°5               s                                                                    °
Kerosene              0.913               ssaunuuuuuuuuuuuauuuxu                                               W
NOiTE. For detailed assumptions underlvinq economic analysis see Annev 7.2
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



INDONES IA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Median - Base Case
(LISS ml llons)
1"biue Otf Gas SolId           %JoIIe Peol3cer              U'Jibe   Operator             Net
~~' ~  o~~t     t                      I MCM.                      0W0  M                  of 9"e      OIM              9eetlei*
Distrib-             Costs   of Gas   Costs                IndOstr               -------------------------------   Repl3Ced Savani3s
utiom   Conversion                                        I Coau.   Domestic  LPG        FIO.    Deisel  Kerosene
1      0.2       0.1       0.0       0.0       0.3                  0         0         0         0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0               -0.3
2      1.4       0,3        .0       0.4       2.1                  7         0       0.3       3.5       2.7      0.3       0.9        .0               -1.2
3      1.5       0,4       0.1       1.6       3.6               28,7         0       1.2      14.4      11.2       1,4      3.6        .0                 .0
4      0.8       0.6       0.2       2.8       4.4               49.9       0,4       2.5      25.1      19.4       Z.4      6.0       0.1                 1.5
5       I.Q      0,4       O.,       3.5       5.0               61.9       0.6       3.2      31.2      24.1       3.0      7.2       0.1                 2.2
S      0,0         0       0.2       3.5       3.8               61.9       1,3       3,8      31.2     24.1       3.0       7.6       0.1                 3.9
7                          0.2       3.5       3,6               61.9       1.3       3.8      31.2      24.1       3.0      7.9       0.1                 4.2
8                          ),2       3.5       3,8               61.9       l.3       3.8      31.2      24.1       3.0      8.5       0.1                 4.7
9                          0.2       3.5       3.6               61.9       1.3       3.8      31.2      24.1      3.0       9.2       0.1                 5.5             1
10                          0.2       3.5       3.9               61.9       1.3       3.8      31.2     24.1       3,0      10.2       0.1                 6.4            %6
11                          0.2       3.5       3.8               61.9       1.3       3.9      31.2      24.1      3.0      10.5       0,1                 6.7
12                          0.2       3.5       3.8               61.9       1.3       3.6      31.2     24.1       3.0      10.8       0.1                 7.0
13                          0.2       3.5       3.8               61.9       1.3       3.8      31,2      24.1      3.0      11.1      O,                  7,4
14                          0.2       3.5       3.6               61,9       1.3       3.8      31.2      24.1      3.0      11.5       0.1                 7,7
15                          0.2       3.5       3.8               61.Q       1.3       3.8      31.2      24.1       3.0     11.8       0.1                 8.0
16                          o.2       3.5       3.8               61.°       1.3       3.8      31.2     24.1       3.0      12.2       o.l                 9.4
17                          0.2       3.5       3.8               61.9       1.3       3.9      31.2      24.1      3.0      12.5       0.1                 B.9
lI                          0.2       3.5       3.8               61.9       1.3       3.6      31.2      24.1      3.0      t2.9       0.1                 9.1
1q                          0.2       3.5       3.9               61.°       1.3       3.8      31.2      24.1      3.0      13.3       0.1                 9.5
20                          0.2       3.5       3.8               61.9       1.3       3.0      31.2      24.1      3.0      13.7       0.1                 9.9
Cost (Value) of Gas!                             Replacement Fuels
Gas Diverted fros'          Ualue  $I WtRTU;                                 Conv.Factor             n331 n131 31 n1g3 n n3313s131ss n1s
---------                --------                                         tht/HCH " 
New Gas (A.I.C.                  1.50                                                                I    NPv   USt    34.5 eillions    I
LPG                     0.87               *                                      x
Weighted AveraWeAII Ye3ps    1.50                         F,O,                    0.95               *    IRR            82.11              *                       
Diesel                  0.95               *                                      I
kerosene               0.913               3113111131111111313         3       1                                   a 
NOTE: For detailed assumptiona underlvirn economic analvsis see Annex 7.2
Ap ..l 11, 1986
Energy Department



90 -                                           ANNEX 7.02
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PhOJECT
Assu3s   qtions Underlying Economic Analysis
Capital Costs: Project cost estiatesv net of duties and taxes, without price contingencies
but including 10 physical contingencies.
Corrersion Costs: Project cost estimates, based on actual estimates for industrial conversion, and $150 per household
household for domestic consumers; net of taxes and dutiess without price contingencies'
but including 10% physical contingencies.
System OIN Costs: Taken at 5% 3er amnn of cumlative distributian svstem investmet costs.
Cost of Gas: Weighted average of the economic value of gas in the alternative use
from which it is withdrawn at the margin for use under the project. The alternative use
in West Java is identified as being in the cement industry in the first years of the
projectr and in steam turbine power gmeration thereafter; as shoun in Page 2 of this Annex
The economic value of gas in the alternative use is its netback value in that use. In Medan
gas is expected to be available in suplusp and it is valued at its long run marginal cost
as calculated in the ID1S study.
Volute of Fuel Replaced: On the basis of market survevs and analysis of crrent fuel use,
it is assumed that of the gas used in industry' 401 will replace diesel' 50 Z fLal oil
5% kersene, and that the remaining 5% will repl;ce LPK. For users of fuel oil, diet.M1 and
kerosene, it is assumed that there is an additiotal 5 per cent gain in volume of fuel repwced
by switching to natural gas due to increased efficiency of combustion. n is assumed that
all natural gas in dosestic use replaces LPK.
Value of Fuel Replaced: Is valued at the border price for the fuel replacedi as shown in Anmex 7.1, and
described in page 2 of this Amex
Operator OIII Savings: As a result of dreased fuel handling and stora3e costs it is estimated
that industrial consuaers will save an average of S19650 annually per  CI of gas consumed.



-91 -                                                 AM           7.02
-  -                                     ~~~~~~~~page 2 of"'ANE    .2
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT-
Assumptions Underlytita  Economic Analysis
Cost of Gas - Ja=arta & Uopor. and Value Fuels Replaced
(a) Cost of Gas - Jakarta I Bogor                       Ib) Value of Fuels Replaced
Value of Gas      Weihted                                                                         Correspnding
Gas Diverted Fr.:   in Alternate Use   Average          Crude                                                            Average
(Proportion)       WWSh/MNBTU)       Lost of Gas       Oil                  Corresponding Fuel Price                  value of
Stean             Stean                      Price                           (SlaT.)                         Gas Used
Year     Cement  Plants   Cement   Plants    (LISS/NITUi    (S/bbl.)  CSlaT.)  LPG           f.D.    Diesel  Kerosene           (USSlmcf)
1                                                               18.20   131.04   163.80    98.28   170.35   176.90
2         100%             2.63               2.63              18.80   135.36   169.20   101.52   175.97   182.74                3.85
3          50%      50Z    2.46      2.59     2.53              17.60   126.72   159.40    °5.04   164.74   171.07                3.61
4                  1OOZ    2.30      2.42     Z.42              16.40   118.08   147.60    98.56   153.50   159.41                3.36
5                  1OOl    2.24      2.36     2.36              16.00   115.20   144.00    86.40   149.76   155.52                3.29
6                  100l    2.34      2.46     2.46              16.70   120.24   150.30    90.18   156.31   162.32                3.43
7                  100%    2.44      2.56     2.56              17.40   125.28   156.60    93.96   162.96   169.13                3.57
8                  100%    2.60      2.74     2.74              19.60   133.92   167.40   100.44   174.10   180.79                3.82
9                  100%    2.83      2.97     2.97              20.20   145.44   181.80   109.08   199.07   196.34                4.15
10                  1001    3.12      3.2      3.29              22.30   160.56   200.70   120.42   209.73   216.76                4.58
11                  10O0    3.22      3.38     3.38              22.97   165.38   206.72   124.03   214.99   223.26                4.72
12                  100;   3.31       3.4B     3.49              23.66   170.34   212.92   127.75   221.44   229.96                4.96
13                  100%    3.41      3.59     3.59              24.37   175.45   219.31   131.59   229.09   736.86                5.00
14                  1001    3.51      3.70     3.70              25.10   180.71   225.89   135.53   234.93   243.96                5.15
i5                  100%    3.62      3.81     3.81              25.95   186.13   232.67   139.60   241.97   251.28                5.31
16                  100%    3.73      3.9.2    3.92              26.63   191.72   239.65   143.79   249.23   Z58.92                5.47
17                  100%    3.84      4.04     4.04              7.43    197.87   246.84   148.10   Z56.71   266.58                5.63
19                  100%    3.95      4.16     4.16              29.25   203.39   254.24   15Z.54   264.41   Z74.58                5.9C
19                  1OOl   4.07       4.29     4.29              29.10   209.49   261.87   157.1Z   272.34   _8Z.82                5.97
20                  100%    4.20      4.41     4.41              29tQ7   Z15.27   269.72   161.93   280.51   291.30                6.15
N0TE':  1' Values of gas in alternate uses are netbac*s from IC4S studv, adjusted for new fuel oil prices.
In Medan gas is costed at average incremental cost of production, S1.50/mcf.
2) Crude oil prices and corresponding product pr:ces are as per IPRD projections, fob Singapore.
3) Weighted average value of gas used is based on assumed proportion of fuels replaced as given on page 1 of this Annet.
Aprl,,    U,1. 1986
Buergy Department



INDONRSIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Fiscal Impact
(Estimates of the FYs 87-92 fiscal beneftts of PON's operations)
(US$ million)
PGN payments to  OI                                               GOI for PGN
Custom      Incomq  Social Fund  Debt            DPS           Total PON  DIP          Local       Debt         Total GOI   Net Fiscal
PY   Duties .     Tax Z   Payments 3/ Service  /  Payments  /   to GOt   Contrib.   Loans 6/  Service 7/  for PGN                    Impact
d7      0.3        0.4         0.2          0.1           0.4           1.4         1.0         0.3         0.1             1.4         (.0)
d8     3.1         1.]         0.5          1.3           1.3           7.5         5.0         7.9         0.8           13.7        (6.2)
89      3.6        3.2         1.2          3.1           3.3          14.4         4.9          1.9        1.9            8.7          5.7
90      2.8        5.6         2.1          6.2           5.7          22.4         3.5         0.4         2.7            6.6          i.s
91      2.1        6.8         2.5          6.9           7.0          25.3         4.0          -          3.3            7.3         18.0 
92     0.0         6.9         2.6         12.8           7.1          30.4          -           -          5.4            5.4        25.0
Total 11.9        24.2         9.1         31.4          24.8         101.4        18.4         10.5       14.2           37.7         58.3
E Estimated at 40Z of CIF on imported goods and equipment.
fi 351 of PGN's net income before social and DIP fund payments.
3/ 20 of after tax income.
According to relending agreements.
/  55Z of after tax income.
/  Commercial loans from government banks.
71 To the Bank.
jP Furthermore, by the end of FY92, PGN is expected to have deposited over USS1.5 millton enuivalent In Government owned banks.
Wil 11, 1986
Energy Uepartment



- 93 -
ANNEX 8.01
Page 1 of 6
INDONESIA
ENERGY PRICING POLICY STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Introduction
1.01     Indonesia is endowed with a plentiful energy base which includes oil,
natural gas, coal, hydropower, and geothermal energy. The way these resources
are being utilized is changing rapidly as the Govern,aent endeavors to diver-
sify the country's energy base to maintain oil exports. With a view to
promoting economic efficiency in the use of energy resources, the Government
has been eliminating most of the subsidies on petroleum products. At the same
time, the Government is undertaking major refinery and coal mining invest-
ments, is reviewing the possibility of introducting natural gas and LPG on a
large scale in the economy, and is promoting geothermal development, all of
which are expected to modify the pattern of energy consumption in the country
considerably.
1.02     Indonesia has established prices for its commercial fuels on an
individual basis but has not yet attempted to establish a coordinated pricing
system across the energy sector. In view of the increased development of
various energy resources, the Government has decided to undertake an energy
pricing policy study to assist in formulating an overall energy pricing policy
that taKes into account the various interrelationships among the different
sources of primary energy available in Indonesia (i.e. natural gas and its
constituents, petroleum products, coal, geothermal energy, etc.) Proposals
are now sought from suitable experienced and qualified consultants (the
Consultants) for undertaking the proposed study.
1.03     The lead agency for the Government will be the                     and
the study will be financed out of
2. Main Objectives
2.01     The main objective of the proposed study is to recommend a methodo-
logy for setting energy prices in Indonesia (both to consumers and producers)
and derive specific pricing policies for the short to medium-term. The study
should focus on methodological aspects and policy issues. It should take as a
basis for specific recommendations the materials refered to in para 6.01,
making modifications as appropriate. The Consultants should endeavor to
recommend practical policies, providing estimates of the economic efficiency
at various levels of complexity in setting price levels (according to load,
geographical area, type of use, etc.) Specifically, the study has the
following objectives:
(i)   to develop alternative options for pricing the various forms of
primary commercial energy, focusing on the price relationships
among petroleum products, natural gas and its constituents



- 94 -
ANNEX 8.01
Page 2 of 6
(including ethane, LPG), coal, geothermal energy, and electri-
city, so as to provide the Government with an integrated price
framework within which to elaborate its energy policies;
(ii)   to examine the fiscal implications associated with the proposed
alternative pricing strategies;
(iii)   to recommend an approach for the pricing of natural gas and its
constituents both at the well-head and to customers, differen-
tiating among the various forms of utilization;
(iv)   to recommend an approach for pricing LPG at various stages of
production and distribution; and
(v)   ts recommend an approach for the transfer price of geothermal
steam to the power utility company, working out the implica-
tions of the proposed price structure on the financial and
other incentives required to encourage exploration and
production of geothermal emergy.
2.02     The study will outline the principles that should guide optimum
economic pricing, differentiating between tradeable and non-tradable forms of
energy.  The study will seek to determine the break-even price level of each
energy source both for producers and consumers, giving due account to
production incentives to producers and opportunity cost to consumers in each
area. The study will then make proposals for practical alternative pricing
systems that meet the above producer and consumer requirements and entail
minimum divergence from economically optimum levels. The Consultants will
identify a range of prices for all identified energy uses, identifying upper
and lower bounds. Gas exports will be taken into account for assessing value
in alternative uses but the study excludes recommendations on the pricing of
gas exports.
3. Scope of Study
3.01     (a) General:  In order to recommend an energy pricing strategy that
is able to accommodate a changing environment, the study will consider various
macroeconomic outlooks (to be provided by Bappenas, the National Planning
Agency), various sizes and locations of natural gas, coal and geothermal
energy reserves, and several alternative investment programs. The study will
discuss explicit mechanisms for regular adjustments in domestic price struc-
tures as key parameters change (price of tradable energy, foreign exchange
parity, costs, etc.) Recommendations will also be made for the steps
necessary to move from the present to the recommended situation.
3.02     (b) Demand and Supply of Energy:  The Consultants will analyze the
present and projected supply of and demand for natural gas (including ethane,
LPG, gas used as transport fuel and for other purposes), petroleum products,
coal and geothermal energy, as provided to them by the Government. The
Consultants will analyze the sectoral demand functions (for each particular
type of fuel) so as to capture the impact of changes in the structure of the
economy on energy demand, as well as to identify the possibilities for
interfuel substitution, including substitution with other major domestic



- 95 -
ANNEX 8.01
Page 3 of 6
resources such as hydro and lignite. The extent to which the same product
(e.g. LPG) can substitute for various products, and the difficulty of
segregating markets, will be taken specifically into account.
3.03     (c) Value of Energy: The Consultants will determine the value of
natural gas, coal and geothermal energy in alternative uses, including power
and all other uses covered in the Beicip Gas Utilization Study (para 5.01).
The estimates of energy value will take into account (a) the opportunity cost
of gas for each type of consumer and (b) comparable energy prices set on a
border price basis. (Shadow prices are to be used as appropriate.) The
Consultants will consider the sensitivity of the above to changes in
international and domestic prices, the overall economic situation (both over
the short and longer term), the cost and availability of alternative fuels,
discount rates, output prices, etc.
3.04     (d) Financial and Economic Aspects of Producer Prices:  The
Consultants will calculate both the financial and economic costs of natural
gas, coal and geothermal energy at the well-head (or at the pit) and, for each
of them, will estimate the long run marginal cost and the relevant depletion
premium (differentiating among regions as appropriate). For natural gas, the
study will cover fields that are important because of their size or rate of
production or because they illustrate specific pricing policy options, and a
selected range of other fields that illustrate various classes of producer
pricing issues (e.g. associated gas or non-associated gas, gas condensate
fields, short-life, marginal and small gas fields, and differences in
location, timing, load factor and reservoir characteristics). The calculation
of unit or marginal economic costs will exclude all taxes payable to
Indonesia, such as import duties, taxes, royalties, and Government share of
production, but will include foreign divident payments.  Calculation of
financial costs will include all taxes and interest costs (including return on
equity). In comparing various pricing strategies (of various levels of
complexity), the study will estimate the financial impact of each of these
alternatives on Government revenues, as well as on the finances of Pertamina,
the coal companies, PLN, main industrial users and production sharing
contractors (PSCs).
3.05     (e) Financial and Economic Aspects of Consumer Prices:  The
Consultants will estimate the financial unit cost of each product (e.g. gas
products, coal, petroleum products) ex-plant, ex-storage, and at the retail
level on the basis of financial operating and marketing costs (differentiating
between transmission and distribution costs) and the capital cost of conver-
sion facilities. These estimates will take account of the necessary ROR and
other financial criteria.
3.06     The Consultants will estimate the economic unit cost of each product
ex-plant, ex-storage, and at the retail level on the basis of Ci) economic
operating and marketing costs and the capital cost of conversion facilities
and (ii) international energy prices during the past decade and projections
for the future. These estimates will take account of appropriate economic
criteria, of the taxes payable by producers, refiners and distributors, as
well as of substitution possibilities and alternative uses.



- 96 -
ANNEX 8.01
Page 4 of 6
3.07     (f) Economic Rent:  Wherever relevant, the Consultants should evalu-
ate the economic rent and its sources, examine alternative ways to allocate
the rent between producer, distributor, power company/industrialist, final
consumer and Government, and assess the economic and financial consequences of
each alternative. In doing so, the Consultants should specifically take
account of the cost of alternative fueLs. The Consultants will analyze and
compare the various ways in which the rent could be shared among various
groups, focussing on the incentives necessary to encourage energy production
and its efficient utilization. Recommendations will take specific account of
the existing institutional framework.
4. Specific Items
4.01     (a) Natural Gas
(i)  The Consultants will examine the implications of production
sharing or royalty systems on the difference between financial
and economic costs;
(ii)  estimate the financial and economic costs of transporting gas to
consumers, as well as other consumer related costs, with a view
to assessing costs at the burner tip, except for small-scale
natural gas uses for which the estimated costs would be at the
city-gate;
(iii)  recommend alternative well-head prices for different parts of
the country, for different kinds of locations, for associated
and non-associated gas and for different sizes of reserves and
for supplies tied to specific gas uses. In doing so, the
Consultants will make comparisons (in terms of practicality and
economic efficiency) among the various possible pricing
strategies (regional pricing vs country-wide approach, level of
disaggregation); and
(iv) assess the impact of the recommended price structures on the
economics of captive power generation.
4.02     (b) Geothermal Energy
(i)  the Consuzltants will address the issue of the transfer price of
steam to the power utility company in relation to the price of
alternative energy sources available for power generation under
similar applications and in relation to production costs of
geothermal steam, as appropriate;
(ii)  in the light of the proposed transfer price system for
geothermal steam, the Consultants will review the adequacy of
incentives offered to industry for exploration and production of
geothermal energy.



- 97 -
ANNEX 8.01
Page 5 of 6
5. Relationship with Other Work
5.01     The Consultants are expected to familiarize themselves with other
studies in the energy field, including those listed in Annex B (to be supplied
by the Indonesian Government). In particular, the Consultants are expected to
familiarize themselves with the World Bank's Issues and Options for the Energy
Sector Study for Indonesia and more recent World Bank reports on energy
pricing and the power sector, with energy pricing studies in the other ASEAN
countries (where possible), with the Gaffney Cline Gas Pricing Study on West
Java and South Sumatra, and with the recent Beicip Gas Utilization Study and
the on-going Arthur D. Little LPG Feasibility Study.
6. Available Information
6.01     The analysis would draw on existing data, particularly as regard data
on reserves and production costs, and on the results of previous and current
studies. It would not attempt to develop new raw data. The Consultants will
utilize the Beicip Gas Utilization Study as a source for basic data on the
value of gas in alternative uses, gas reserves, locations, gas composition,
participation options, contract terms of gas supply and existing gas pricing
policy and agreements, forecasts of gas use and potential markets, but will
update and amend as they feel appropriate. PLN will be requested to make
available plans and options for fuel use in power generation. Perum Batubara
and PTBA will be requested to provide supply and costs data related to coal
production. The Ministry of Mines and Energy will make available the latest
forecasts on overall energy supply and demand. The Consultants will utilize
Pertamina information for refinery configurations and costs, but will update
and amend as they feel appropriate. The Consultants will utilize the A.D.
Little LPG Feasibility Study as a source of basic data for LPG supply and
utilization, but will update and amend as they feel appropriate.
7. Assistance to be provided by the Government
7.01     Transportation and secretarial services will be provided
by _
7.02    A Steering Committee has been set up to direct the work of the
Consultants.
8. Reporting Requirements and Timing
8.01    The Consultants will submit proposals by                     .  Work on
the study will commence within four weeks of contract award. Thirty copies of
an inception report explicitly stating the Consultants' proposed approach and
methodology will be required four weeks after the start of the study. Thirty
copies of an interim report will be required approximately four months after
the start of the study. The draft final report shall be submitted in thirty
copies within nine months after the start of the study. One hundred copies of
the final report shall be presented within twelve months after the beginning
of the contract. The Government will hold formal review meetings on receipt
of the inception, interim and draft final reports. Reports will be presented
in English.



- 98 -
ANNEX 8.01
Page 6 of 6
9. Bidders' Instructions
9.01     The work is expected to require about sixty (60) man-months of
consultant time. The Consultants should indicate in their proposals their
view on the manpower requirements, and the terms of reference generally. They
should include details on how they propose to undertake the work, explaining
specifically their methodology and plan oi action for the study, the firm's
previous experience and the relevant qualiEications and experience of the
staff to be assigned to the study. Propos.ls should be valid for three
months. Priced proposaLs are not required at this stage. The Government will
indicate the applicable taxation system to :he Consultant chosen for detailed
negotiations so that a priced proposal can i1e prepared at that time. The cost
of any visit to Indonesia in the course of preparing the proposal will be the
responsibility of Consultants. The Covernmeit retains the right to reject any
or all proposals.
9.02     The Consultants will procure the necessary softwares for their work
and shall transfer them to_                   ffice upon completion of the
study.
9.03     Training:  Staff traiaing and transfer of technology are key elements
of the proposed consultancy. The Consultants will regard it as a primary
obligation to ensure that Indonesian nationals are in a position to continue
and update the work. This would be achieved through seminars, presentations
and training periods at the Consultants' headquarters. The Ministry of Mines
and Energy will set up a special Energy Pricing Unit for the purpose of
formulating energy pricing policies and monitor_ng their implementation. The
Consultants will be responsible for the establishment of suitable procedures
and work programs for this unit.
10.      Staffing:  The study will require expertise in a wide range of
topics: resource economics, taxation, petroleum development and legislation,
coal development, geothermal development, etc. Since it is unlikely that any
single consulting firm will have staff available to cover each one of these
disciplines, the Consultants are encouraged to seek specialized assistance
outside their main domain of expertise from other institutions and present
joint proposals as appropriate. The evaluation of Consultant proposals will
give strong emphasis to the ability of the Consultant to assemble a team with
the relevant expertise. The team leader should in any case have a minimum of
15 years experience in resource economics.
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 99 -
ANNEX 8.02
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Domestic and Economic Prices of Petroleum Products
(As of March 1986)
Ratio of
domestic
Share of     Economic    Domestic    to econo-
Consumption    price /a       Price     mic price
(Z)             (Rp/liter)  --          (Z)
Aviation turbo             3.2          207          330           159
Gasoline super             0.2          188          440           234
Gasoline regular          16.8          146          385           264
Kerosene                  32.6          197          165            84
Motor diesel              30.0          157          242           154
Industrial diesel          5.8          140          220           157
Fuel oil                  11.5           99          220           222
Total/Average       100.0          162          241           149
/a Singapore.prices as of March 1986 plus 5% distribution costs, con-
verted at US$1 = Rp 1,000.
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



- 100 -                           ANNEX 9.Ol
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
1. Financial Statements of PGN for 1984/1985 (Unaudited in Indonesian)
2. Proposed Budget of PGN for 1985/1986 (in Indonesian)
3.  Approved Budget of PGN for 1985/1986 (in Indonesian)
4. Financial Statements of PGN for 1983/1984 (Unaudited, In Indonesian)
5. Financial Statements of PGN for 1982/1983 (Audited in Indonesian)
6. Financial Statements of PGN for 1981/1982 (Audited in Indonesian)
7. Financial Statements of PGN for 1980/1981 (Audited in Indonesian)
8. Chart of Accounts of PGN, 1977 (in Indonesian)
9. General Accounting Principles of Indonesia 1974 (in Indonesian)
10. Exposure Draft - Indonesian Accounting Principles, 1983 (in English)
11. Regulation of GOI No. 27 of 1984 on Conversion of The State Gas Company
into A Public Corporation: PGN Statute (in both English and Indonesiin)
12. Summary of Financial Report required by PGN Statute (in both English and
Indonesian)
13. Instruction No. 1-84.24 about Calculation of of Depreciation and
Bookkeeping since 1984 (in both English and Indonesian)
14. Depreciation Method upto 1983 (in Indonesian)
15. Instruction by Board of PGN on Accounting Method (in Indonesian)
16.  Regulation No. 3 of 1983 on Procedure of ?romocing and Superv:.Asing
Departmental Agency, Public Corporation, and Limited Liabilitr State Corp.
(in both English and Indonesian)
17. Current Tariff Schedule of Gas (in Indonesian)
18. Annual Volume of Gas Sales - City by City (in English)
19. SAR - Indonesia 14th Power Project
20. SAR (Green Cover) - Indonesia Power Transmission and Distribution Project
21.  SAR - Egypt City Gas
22. Tax Reform in Indonesia (prepared bv AEAIN on June 27, 1985)
23. OGE Feasibility Study Final Report
April 11, 1986
Energy Department



THAILAND                                           ir                             itr
Sou4;!h   China c                                 '              >
MALAYSIA                            A c                         BRUNEI   -               -<V
SibolKulo  a'a 
'- ~    ~      I                      S. 5                                                   /<,)z          >   
-   SibOlgll       '   /                   /             ''  ~~~~~~M A LAYS IA    .     
c-          :> N GAPORE                              N.  f--L.    ./                  .          \
3- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
. ~~~~~~~~' AtINAXuA Nt 
r    ~ ~ ~ ~        P-A             -7 
4~   ~~-        -'                                       KAIIMNrAN
-v~ ~               -.  -       p..a D- -                                 -      >
0         S~~~-'ANGKA.
0 Ft n-i;pig       N g
pah. 6~xm                                              -
o  -        IL.* 
.4 W4
9~~~1  ~~~~ ~MADURA
3'9-        O  ean
100                            tar'                             t2r                             lt



: 1t   '-'  li*    (0 \|tli6o  -IBRD 1943
PHILIPPINES Q                                              INDONESIA
'C/a--                     ,'                               GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
>   L...                           E~J CITIES SERVED BY PGN
)                                   *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
-    RIVERS
Celebes  Sea                                                        -  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
g              /       c     ; ) s-ALMANERA    P ° CPcific   Oceon
'~~_               _    _   -   '   JAWE/>   
0-    S '~ 5                                                                     G EU  ) X oOse Eoo
5J I                )MMKEPUAUAN  SV LA ,-'9
' ' t _K                          A.eaoo         eJ~' IRIAN    JAVA Y A
;            r1                %                                                                     Agg.     WWP&   0
,-_ -,J ooubaw~                                                 3
Banoo   Sea~~~~~~*'*-J 
-W.~~~~~~                                                       ~~~~~~ IL g  3  /0    A
m       SUMBA 7                      I rio                                               MILES
0  T0  2u  3?0 40D 30
- ~A  ~        IWiM  d 21.. 11bU8*   WE~&V.~M      KILO  EnTERS
JANUARY 19Db



SUMMAERA        108       110        112°      114'
JAKARTA
MANDURA
JA WA
Ioq6     10.8-          !(J,   1121       114                     f 
I~~~~~~~~~
-   Iz                     Plui(:) t       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rcol
ce gkr9i   JAKARTA                                                                                                                  t 
I N D O N E S I A                        <\1                                                                                     
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
JAKARTA GAS DISTRIBUTION
PROJECT AREAS                                                                                                                    /
Plaiiniecl:                       Perflaiisinci Trunik Linies
Supply Molins               0     Regulalor Slitions
Er1TC  Disiribulioni Neiwork               Commercial and Industricl Areas
0     Regulator Slations        -  --  Cily Boundary                                                                            'ciggis
Rivers                                   0  1  2 3  4  S
z                 Existing:
a     Natiofial Copilal
Supply Mains       2                          -                                KIIOMEIERS i                                                                  ',..**vs-  u
_Cli* C.   Fd      .i n i - r* v   i r - 4 -
w



IBRD 19439
KEC SAWANGAN
KEC CILEUNGSI
KEC BOJONG CEDE
\   q            /    \/       ,-               ~~~~~~I N  D O  N  E S I A 
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
BOGOR GAS DISTRIBUTION
PROJECT AREAS
i     V        t        ;          /       /    (BOGO  KEC CITEUREEUP|
*. ,.      .;   ..|
-      Supply Momns
\   t \t   \                          r   ~~~~~~~~~~~~p,-rromm,,  l,Lm,- L esi
KEC CIOMAS
Conn....er  ,cl  w, d  Imnd. trI   A.'os   i
Notfonol C(tPI°I
*0t fl-A - -                                                                        BrA  IC8°  1l0  117"  IIA
-_ _,_o  _ \                                                                         JAX IRTA
,,-,  ,,-'                              )           KEC CIAWI                  ,    HOL.0'                     MANDURA
____*.__~~~~~                                                          ~~~~~               ~ I3_   4 5    A WA
-___D_                                  /\           KIIOMETERS                 WN/A.    :
106,    1038'     210     I2' 11 4U 1I
JANUARY 1986



~QQO ~..  i0S       a) Ol3u Cino                                                                                 0
~5.            MALAYSIA                                                                                                        Percut
*    KUALA LUMPUR
MEDAN                                                                                                   a S5eruai                                                  >.. t S)r /\,RI!( ct:
Sit'6GAPORE                               MedoF, Labulun OF
.0.                    O.~    ~       ~~-                                 Paoy  Pou                              0S. Mcrahi
Sornipong Kotitor
5.  ,ooe  ,                                                    /                                                              I N    D  O    N  E  S  I A
o0                                                                                               Sne  OKeluinpang  -5enisa  GAS DISTRIBU1 ION PROJECT
"'ompuo  Tandem                                                                                                                           MEDAN GAS DISTRIBUTION
oKeti'nibr Limo          (            oMedcii Del,                                       PROJECT   AREAS
Planinedl:
-Supply Mainis
0 Tinibong Laiigkot              GI  u  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~*~                                              DistributiOn Networks
0 Tinibang Langkul                                                  Glugu    oMedQn TiQur                                                      0      Regulator Netwcrks
a Binoii
aedanlairoldan                                                                                 Existing:
_t MEDAN                                                   Supply Mains
Medan Suingg.              on                                 Deno                                      o      Regulator Stations
Commercial and Industrial Areas
0 SCI Krio                                              _Amplas                                                                 Rivers
*  National Capitals
<  <|  --  International Boundaries
0 Sei Mencirim-
T' "xio*N .._...- .
0,i  .4 oit"    V N"                                                                                                                                                      0   1  2   3   4   5
Cew.'  @                                                                                                                        Tanjung MoTrwo                            !_I_I_I_I____
Z   wd           n                                                                                                                                                                 KItOMETERS                    a
_ ft  e J"w "6 
W           NSQ VIj
00 *W



