Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13889-IND
INPLEMENTATION COHPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN NO.2690-IND)
JANUARY 20, 1995
Industry & Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =        Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00                  =        Rp 2,200
Rp 1,000                 =         US$0.45
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Standard cubic foot (cf)   =        0.028 cu.m.
1 British Themal Unit (btu)    =      0.252 kilocalories (Kc)
mcf                          =        thousand standard cubic feet
mmcfd                        =        million standard cubic feet per day
mcm                          =        thousand standard cubic meters
mumcm                        =        million standard cubic meters
tcf                          -        trillion standard cubic feet
m3                           =        standard cubic meter
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MM                          Million
ERR                         Economic Rate of Retum
FIRR                        Financial Internal Rate of Return
NPV                          Net Present Value
GOI                          Government of Indonesia
LNG                         Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG                         Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MIGAS                       Directorate General of Oil and Natural Gas,
Ministry of Mines and Energy
PERTAMINA                   National Oil and Gas Company
PGN                         Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara
(State Gas Corporation)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Currency Equivalents, Weight and Measures, Abbreviations and Acronyms ............ ............. ii
Table of Contents .................................................... ii
Preface ....................................................                                iv
Evaluation Summary .....................................................1
Project Review ...........................................................................3
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                           .3
B. Achievement of Objectives                                .6
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                           .7
D. Project Sustainability                                 .9
E. Bank Perforance .10
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Future Operations .12
I. Key Lessons Leamed .12
Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Surmmary of Assessments .14
Table 2:           Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3:   Project Timetable .15
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements .16
Table 5:          Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:          Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7:          Studies included in the Project .17
Table 8A:  Project Costs .18
Table 8B:   Project Financing .19
Table 9A:    Economic Costs & Benefits .20
Table 9B:         Financial Intemal Rate of Retur .20
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 11:         Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Missions .24
Table 13:         Formal Training Places Filled .25
Appendices
A.   Mission's Aide Memoir
B.   Borrower's Contribution
C.   Maps
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(Loan No. 2690-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gas Distribution Project in Indonesia, for
which Loan No. 2690-IND, in the arnount of US$ 34.0 million equivalent was approved on May 6, 86 and
made effective on December 23, 1986.
The loan was closed two years late on July 31, 1994 (the scheduled closing date was July 31, 1992).
It was not fully disbursed (US$2,385,769.49 canceled) and the last disbursement was on December 20, 1994.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the UK
government.
The ICR was prepared by S. Khwaja, Senior Gas Specialist, IENOG and D. Vernilya, Financial
Analyst, EA3E, and reviewed by Peter R. Scherer, Chief, EA3IE, and Richard A. Calkins, Operations
Adviser, EA3DR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's mission to Indonesia from September 26 to
October 7, 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower's contribution is attached as
appendix B.






INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
[Loan 2690-IND]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    In 1981, the Bank's Energy Assessment Report confirmed that Indonesia's alternative energy sources
could be developed economically to substitute oil in domestic consumption and recommended such substitution
in order to maintain potential oil exports. Subsequently (in 1984 and 1985), Bank initiated and supervised
three studies for the gas sector: (a) a gas utilization study to assess, in a long-term perspective, the expanded
use of natural gas in domestic consumption; (b) a gas distribution study to assess the potential for expanded
gas distribution to small and medium industries, commercial entities and households in urban areas; and (c) an
LPG feasibility study to evaluate the economic viability of LPG distribution more widely for household use.
These studies helped formulate: (a) the strategy of developing large-scale domestic markets for natural gas, as
a substitute for oil, particularly for power generation, industrial and commercial users; and (b) the Gas
Distribution Project (Bank's first lending operation in the gas subsector) to support this strategy through
rehabilitation and extension of gas distribution systems in Jakarta, Bogor (West Java) and Medan (North
Sumatra), institution building of PGN (the gas utility responsible for this development) and Energy Pricing
Policy Study. The Loan Agreement for this Project was signed on June 5, 1986, and it was made effective on
December 23, 1986. The loan closing date was July 31, 1994.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The broad sector objectives to be advanced by the Project were:
*  to bring about institutional changes and policy modifications to facilitate the penetration of natural gas in
the domestic economy;
* to support GOI's efforts to improve its energy pricing policy; and,
* to accelerate the utilization of natural gas in high-value uses in the domestic market.
3.    The specific obiectives to be achieved during the implementation phase of the Project were:
* to encourage the use of natural gas by small and medium-sized industries, thus ensuring the utilization of
gas in a high-value market, by constructing new gas distribution facilities;
* to replace and/or rehabilitate portions of PGN's existing gas distribution networks, which were unsafe and
subject to substantial leakage;
* to build up the managerial and technical capabilities of PGN to plan and implement system expansion and
operate its networks efficiently and cost effectively;
* to establish duplicable technological standards on which to base future expansions of existing gas
distribution networks, or the creation of new ones, as natural gas becomes more widely available; and,
* to support GOI's efforts in the review and modification of sector policies, particularly with regard to
energy pricing.



2
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.     Overall, the Project implementation results have been highly satisfactory. The sales target has been
surpassed by 50%, the rates of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation of about 18%, 22% and 23%
for FYs 91, 92 and 93 are well in excess of the 10% ROR covenanted under the Project loan (LN 2690-DND)
and the amended 4% for FYs 91-93 covenanted under the follow-up Project' loan (LN 3209-IND). The
number of staff (1156) is well below the agreed ceiling (1440) and gas losses have been reduced from 30% to
2%. PGN has now achieved unqualified financial audits for five consecutive years. Except for about a six
month delay in Project startup, poor customer response in the initial year and a half of project implementation,
and restriction on gas supply (for about 9 months) in 1989/90, there were no mnajor implementation problems.
The poor customer response issue was fully redressed by 1988 with skillful and aggressive marketing
techniques, leamed by PGN during the course of project implementation. In the end, the late project startup
and restriction on gas supply resulted in a one and a half year delay in project implementation.
D. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
5.     The Project achieved or exceeded all its specific objectives, and initiated a policy dialog. Overall, the
project has achieved substantial development results during the implementation phase. It's limited scope and
leverage to effectively pursue broad sector issues and especially cross-sector issues notwithstanding, the
Project has:
e demonstrated that a significant demand exists for natural gas in domestic industry;
demonstrated that natural gas is a financially viable alternative to exportable petroleum products
in domestic energy consumption; and,
* provided an important entry point for broad sector policy discussions with GOI.
6.     PGN with Bank's support commenced the second gas project, the Gas Utilization Project (Loan 3209-
ND) in 1990 which is scheduled for completion in 1996. Beyond the existing projects, PGN is now seeking
support from the Asian Development Bank for a natural gas transmission pipeline to deliver gas from Asamnera
operated gas fields (in South Sumatra) to Caltex's enhanced oil recovery operations at Duri oil fields (in
Central Sumatra), with a spur line to Batam island (near the coast of Sumatra). PGN is also seeking Bank's
support for a natural gas transmission pipeline between South Sumatra and West Java to bring additional
supplies to West Java markets. In addition, PGN is slated to become a Persero2 (joint-stock company) during
the first quarter of 1995 which will enable it to attract private sector participation in its expansion projects.
The on-going Gas Utilization Project (LN3209-IND).
Under GOI regulation No. 37, signed by the President on December 6, 1994, PGN has been permitted to become a Persero.



3
7.    The key lessons learned were: (a) the importance of using a twinning arrangement for institution
building in parallel with project implementation, and careful selection of the twinning partner; (b) the key to
PGN's rapid sales growth was the introduction of market development techniques; (c) gas sales contracts
should be in place before construction of the gas pipeline conmnences, otherwise the consumer has a significant
advantage over the distribution company; (d) sequencing of distribution network construction should be geared
towards maximizing economic gains early on; (e) a component shouldn't be included in the Project without
sufficient Borrower commitment and preparation, as was the case with the customer conversion component; (f)
an appropriate legal and regulatory framework is needed (and still is needed) to enforce delivery of contracted
gas supplies; (g) avoid hiring consultants about whom there are considerable technical reservations, as was the
situation during the Energy Pricing Policy Study.
PROJECT REVIEW
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
8.   TThe broad sector objectives to be advanced through the Gas Distribution Project were:
9.     To bring about institutional changes and policy modifications to facilitate the penetration of
natural gas in the domestic economy: This objective was relevant to Indonesia's natural gas sector
development strategy because it focused on substitution of exportable liquid petroleum products with non-
exportable natural gas which would increase Indonesia's foreign exchange earnings. The main operational
focus of the Project was to strengthen PGN by linking it through a twinning arrangement to an experienced
foreign gas utility capable of providing assistance in key areas of gas utility management such as, marketing,
procurement, system design, financial analysis and corporate planning. British Gas was selected as the
twinning partner. The policy modifications which the Project proposed to address were primarily concemed
with revising the producer and consumer energy pricing policies towards the domestic prices of fuels and to
their efficiency levels to encourage increased natural gas production and efficient use of these resources.
10.    Since the Project was the first gas distribution project, it was focussed narrowly and primarily on
gaining a market for gas in Indonesia. Beyond that, the development of gas distribution networks in Jakarta,
Bogor and Medan and the Energy Pricing Policy Study provided a venue for initial discussions with the
Government on wider policy issues and on institutional changes.
11.    To support GOI's efforts to improve its energy pricing policy: This objective was to be
accomplished by conducting an Energy Pricing Policy Study (EPPS). The intent of the EPPS was to raise
awareness with GOI that there is a need to revise its energy pricing policy. The EPPS was an important part
of the project, as it extended the project's influence beyond the hardware and institutional components into the
policy arena. It provided an essential vehicle for pursuing and informing the Bank's dialogue on energy prices
with the GOI, and contributed towards the rationalization of liquid petroleum products prices, which except
for kerosene, are now at or above import parity prices.
12.   While the study would have had the potential to affect pricing policy in the natural gas sector, it would
have had little potential to create fundamnental pricing policy changes with regards to other fuels such as diesel
kerosene, and fuel oil. The implementation of the results of such a study, which would involve coordination
among several government ministries, would be difficult given that the Project was largely focused on PGN,
and to a lesser extent on MIGAS.



4
13.    Accelerate the utilization of natural gas in high-value uses in the domestic market: This objective
was to be realized by developing the infrastructure needed to distribute gas to industrial and commercial
consumers currently using liquid fuels as a source of energy, and by building up the institutional capability of
PGN to actively market and distribute gas. Support would also be provided to facilitate the conversion of
industrial consumers from liquid fuels to natural gas, and to assist GOI in setting appropriate fuel prices so as
to encourage optimal utilization of gas.
14.    This objective was achievable as PGN had the capability and commitment to develop its distribution
network design, construction, management and gas marketing abilities, with the assistance of an experienced
twinning partner, to make a significant increase in natural gas usage in high-valued industries.
15.    All of the specific project objectives to be accomplished during the implementation period of the Gas
Distribution Project were clearly stated and each directly supported the broad objectives of the Project. The
specific objectives were:
16.    To encourage the use of natural gas by small and medium-sized industries, thus ensuring the
utilization of gas in a high-value market, by constructing new gas distribution facilities: PGN, with the
support of an experienced twinning partner, could acquire the expertise to efficiently design, build and operate
the distribution facilities which would encourage and accelerate the use of gas by small and medium size
industries. However, there were risks associated with achieving this objective such as, insufficient gas
supplies from Pertamina, a price devaluation which would make gas prices to consumers unattractive, and gas
supply delays.
17.    To replace and/or rehabilitate portions of PGN's existing gas distribution networks, which were
unsafe and subject to substantial leakage: This objective was integral to improving gas distribution safety
and efficiency -- by reducing gas losses from 30% to more acceptable levels (below 2%). This objective was
easily achievable by PGN, with a twinning partner, within the implementation period of the project. No major
risks, other than material supply delays, would have prevented attainment of this objective.
18.    To build up the managerial and technical capabilities of PGN to plan and implement system
expansion and operate its networks efficiently and cost effectively: To bring this about, a long-term
technical collaboration (called "twinning") with an experienced foreign gas utility was designed which would
provide the required broad based package of technical assistance to build PGN's mnanagement and operating
capabilities in parallel with project implementation. The twinning arrangement and the choice of a twinning
partner which would work in conjunction with PGN, share the sane responsibilities as PGN, and train PGN
management and staff in specialized functions, formed the comerstone of this objective and of the whole
project. The twinning arrangement, as opposed to discrete technical assistance packages to deal with different
disciplines and hiring consultants to assist in their implementation, was preferable because it would: (a)
provide integration of know-how transfer on site in the course of project irnplementation; (b) keep the work
program flexible over time; and (c) expose PGN to an experienced operating organization (i.e. a role model)
with the possibility of a long-term cooperative relationship. There were, however, risks associated with the
twinning arrangement: (a) the twinning team might not have been of high quality, (b) its members might not
have worked well with PGN staff, and (c) the twinning team might not have aligned itself with PGN's goals.
19.    To establish duplicable technological standards on which to base future expansions of existing
gas distribution networks, or the creation of new ones, as natural gas becomes more widely available:
The objective is clearly linked to the promotion and efficient expansion of natural gas utilization in Indonesia.



5
20.    To support GOI's efforts in the review and modification of sector policies, particularly with
regard to energy pricing: This specific objective clearly supports the broad objective to bring about policy
modifications to-facilitate the penetration of natural gas in the domestic economy. It is, however, not clear
from the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), which sector policies the project intended to address and in what
manner they would be addressed, other than changing the energy pricing policy for producer and consumer
prices, which was to be addressed in the Energy Pricing Policy Study. The SAR didn't discuss how the
recommendations of the Energy Pricing Policy Study would then be implemented. The objective, as stated,
was vague and therefore difficult to implement.
21.   None of the broad or specific objectives were changed during the project, however, gas supply delays
and funds reallocation (paras 3 8 & 41) affected the implementation of the project components listed below.
22.    Project components designed to achieve the Project objectives:
1.    Gas Distribution and Technical Assistance Component. This component involved:
a)    laying of about 218 km of high-pressure transmission pipelines and 535 km. of
medium-pressure polyethylene distribution pipelines;
b)     construction of 10 pressure reducing stations;
c)     construction of service lines and meter stations for a core group of about 350
industrial, 800 commercial and 12,700 domestic consumers;
d)     provision of a meter maintenance workshop, telecommunication and pressure/flow
monitoring systems, computer and other office equipment;
e)    twinning with an established gas utility to strengthen PGN's capability in the areas of
demand forecasting, system planning and design, construction management, system
operation and maintenance, customer conversion, accounting and management
information systems; and,
f)    training of PGN staff in management, finance, accounting and engineering.
2.     Customer Conversion Component, involving the installation of intemal piping and conversion
to natural gas of customers' appliances and equipment.
3.     Studies, including:
a)     an Energy Pricing Policy Study (EPPS) to be carried out by the Ministry of Mines &
Energy, and
b)     LPG Feasibility Study (financing only).



6
B. Achievement of Objectives
23.    Bring about institutional changes and policy modifications to facilitate the penetration of natural
gas in the domestic economy: While substantial institutional improvements have occurred at PGN in gas
utility management, marketing, procurement, system design, financial analysis and corporate planning,
resulting in actual sales exceeding the target by 50%, sector policy modifications under this Project have been
negligible. However, the dialog initiated under this Project led to changes in the consumer energy pricing
policy and PGN's corporatization, and paved the way for major sector policy and regulatory changes to be
undertaken through the proposed Gas Development Project. The role of Pertamina vis-a-vis PGN in gas sector
transmission has been partially clarified through a government decree which gives PGN the right to transmit
natural gas. However, an adequate legal and regulatory framework is still not in place to assure that sufficient
gas supplies will be available for future growth.
24.    Support GOI's efforts to improve its energy pricing policy: This objective has partially been
achieved. Although the Bank commissioned the Energy Pricing Policy Study, there is little evidence that the
study was used to change energy pricing in the gas sector or other energy sectors and no Energy Pricing Unit
was established to assist the Governnent with energy pricing. Following the EPPS, however, an internal Bank
study, the Energy Pricing Review, was conducted which resulted in GOI taking into account the import price
of substitute fuels in setting natural gas prices.
25.    Accelerate the utilization of natural gas in high-value uses in the domestic market: This objective
was fully achieved. At the end of the project, actual sales exceeded the SAR target by about 50% with fewer
connections and a higher customer density than stipulated in the SAR, due to skillful identification and
attachment of higher yield consumers. The fuels replaced in most cases were diesel oil and kerosene, which
are high-valued fuels.
26.    The assessment of specific project objectives is given as follows:
27.    To encourage the use of natural gas by small and medium-sized industries, thus ensuring the
utilization of gas in a high-value market, by constructing new gas distribution facilities: This objective
was fully met as total sales volume surpassed expectations in the SAR by 50%.
28.    To replace and/or rehabilitate portions of PGN's existing gas distribution networks, which are
unsafe and subject to substantial leakage: This objective was fully met. Apart from enhancing pipeline
safety, the rehabilitation process contributed to the reduction of gas losses from about 30% in 1986 to
internationally acceptable levels of less than 2% by 1993.
29.    To build up the managerial and technical capabilities of PGN to plan and implement system
expansion and operate its networks efficiently and cost effectively: This objective was substantially
achieved. The twinning arrangement has been highly successful in upgrading PGN's skill to efficiently
develop gas markets, as well as plan, build and operate distribution networks.
30.    To establish duplicable technological standards on which to base future expansions of existing
gas distribution networks, or the creation of new ones, as natural gas becomes more widely available:
This objective has substantiallv been achieved. The distribution systems built in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan
follow internationally acceptable standards for system design, materials and safety.



7
31.    To support GOI's efforts in the review and modification of sector policies, particularly with
regard to energy pricing: This objective has partially been achieved. While the Energy Pricing Policy Studv
(EPPS) was not instrumental in changing energy pricing policy, the exchange of views based on the Bank's
follow-up study, an Energy Pricing Review, prompted GOI to adopt a policy of pricing fuels based on real
economic costs. GOI has been adjusting prices accordingly, by reducing various distortions in coal, gas and
petroleum product prices. In addition, the junior local consultants who benefited from the training provided as
part of the EPPS continue to be used by Pertamina for the analysis and setting of petroleum product prices.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to government control
32.    The price of crude oil on international markets, and therefore, the value of substitute fuels and the
alternative cost of gas under the project, is a factor not subject to control by the Indonesians. The average
crude oil price during project implementation was close to $16/bbl., similar to SAR estimates; future crude oil
projections steadily raise the cost per barrel to $30/bbl. within 15 years.
Factors generally subject to government control
33.    Macroeconomic policies, like the timing and the magnitude of currency fluctuations, are subject to
government control. In 1986, a 45% devaluation of the Rupiah to the dollar occurred. The SAR had warned
that dollar-denominated, but Rupiah-payable gas supply contracts were a risk factor for the Project because all
foreign exchange risk would be borne by PGN. Although most of the gas supply contracts were later
renegotiated to give PGN just a 15% foreign exchange loss, as a result of the 1986 devaluation (and high gas
losses) PGN was unable to achieve its targeted 10% ROR until 1991.
34.    The first major gas purchase price revision occurred at the outset of the Project. The 45% devaluation
of the Rupiah to the dollar resulted in substantial and inmmediate losses for PGN. Another price change
occurred in October 1991, the selling price of natural gas rose by 20% locally due to similar increases in the
price of competing fuels. This response to market conditions demonstrates that PGN has been responsive to
the messages of the Energy Pricing Policy Study and the Energy Pricing Review - to price at or above the gas
efficiency price.
35.    Lack of an adequate regulatory and legal framework to enforce supply contracts, resulted in gas
supply delays.
36.    PGN's ability to expeditiously process the procurement of goods and services was impaired, to some
extent, by GOI's procurement procedures, particularly the regulations under Kepres 29, which required that
award of contracts valued above Rupiah 3 billion should be approved by the Ministry of Finance. This level
has now been raised to Rupiah 10 billion.
37.    Simultaneous retirement of three directors (out of a total of four) in 1993 disrupted the work resulting
in procurement and disbursement delays.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control



8
38.    Funds for the customer conversion component of the project (Category 1(b) and Category (2) of
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement), largely unutilized as customers had access to more attractive funds, were
reallocated to augment the supply mains for Jakarta/Bogor to market additional 24 mmcfd of gas supply over
and above the quantity contracted under the Project. US$ 9 million, of the original amount of $9.5 million was
thus transferred to the goods category for this purpose.3
39.    PGN's twinning arrangement with British Gas was initially funded with a 2.5 million pounds sterling
grant from Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the UK Government covering 282 man-months.
Following an evaluation by the British Gas twinning team during 1987/88 it was determined that additional
support (184 man-months) would be required in a number of key areas (distribution, finance and planning) for
which ODA provided a further 1.7 million pounds sterling.
40.    Following a review in 1993, PGN reorganized its procurement operations. A new division fully
dedicated to procurement was established resulting in a marked improvement in the tendering process and
contract administration. The average time taken from the preparation of tender documents until the award of
the contract was reduced from 40 weeks to 28 weeks.
Implementation delays
41.    The loan closing date was extended twice. The first extension moved the closing date from July 31,
1992 to July 31, 1993; the second extension moved the closing date to July 31, 1994. The first one-year
extension was granted for the following reasons:
a)    there was about a 6 month delay in project startup due to delays in the finalization of twinning
arrangements, which was a condition of loan effectiveness; and
b)    there was about a 9 months delay in FYs 89/90 and 90/91 in implementation of expansion
plans due to restricted supply of gas, by Pertamina, contrary to the supply agreement.
42.    The second one-year extension was granted in order to provide additional time of about one-year to
utilize funds reallocated from the customer conversion category to the goods category for the
expansion of gas supply infrastructure of Jakarta/Bogor area to accept additional gas supplies (in
excess of contracted quantities under the project) negotiated with Pertamina.
43.    The implementation of the EPPS was delayed by about one year, because GOI's negotiations wsith the
best evaluated bidder broke down on the consultant fee issue, i.e., the fees expected and normally charged by
the consultants were higher than the "guidelines for international consultants" of the Ministry of Finance. The
second ranked bidder was then selected although the Bank had considerable reservations on its technical
abilities. In the end, the technical weaknesses of the consultant were compounded by poor management of the
study.
3   Of which about S6.6 million has been utilized and $2.4 million has been cancelled.



9
D. Project Sustainability
44.    With the institutional strengthening received under the Project, PGN is capable of managing its
business at the current pace of development. PGN now has a core staff of 190 professionals (engineers,
accountants, sales executives, economists) and 260 technicians. Of the 1585 training course places (Table
13) attended during the project, about 30% were taken by technicians and 70% by the professionals of which
14 professionals obtained master's degrees from UK universities. Additionally, about 700 technicians of
industrial customers and 200 technicians belonging to the contractors have been trained.
45.    The distribution networks are well planned and built, and have the capability to support continued
grow-th, at the current level, over the next 5 to 7 years. The market development has been highly successful.
PGN has successfully raised the awareness of the advantages of natural gas as a fuel in the main industrial
and commercial centers. PGN alreadv has an inventory of potential industrial customers which if attached
could provide additional 60 mmcfd sale without anv extension of the system and another 150 mmcfd sale
with small extensions, provided additional gas supplies are available. According to PGN's projections, in
the medium term (7 years) the consumption of gas, in West Java, by general industry alone could rise to 450
mmcfd. To maintain the momentum of this development, PGN would have to expeditiously secure
additional gas supplies for West Java, which is the basis of the Operational Plan outlined in the following
section.
46.    The demand for gas during the project period increased substantially more than the forecast. The
marketing of gas will, therefore, not present any problems for the long-term sustainability of the project.
However, the securing of long-term supply commitments are likely to present impediment to PGN's future
growth. An eventual new gas project should, therefore, address the lack of an appropriate producer pricing
policy and regulatory and legal framework to encourage additional gas supply.
Operational Plan
47.    PGN has prepared an Operational Plan for the Project areas (Jakarta, Bogor and Medan) to sustain
the Project objectives during its operation phase (1994-2008). The premise of the Operational Plan is that
the momentum of this development process should be maintained so as to maximize the use of natural gas in
domestic energy consumption. While in Medan area the gas supply and distribution networks would be
adequate due to expansion under the ongoing Gas Utilization Project (Loan 3209-IND), Jakarta and Bogor
would need additional gas supply which could be achieved through a follow-up project to bring 250 mmcfd
gas supply from South Sumatra to West Java. The Operational Plan, therefore, assumes that a natural gas
transmission pipeline will be built from South Sumatra to West Java under the proposed Gas Development
Project. A financial analysis of the Operational Plan shows that a scenario which incorporates the
incremental costs and benefits of such a gas transmission pipeline generates a sustainable FIRR of 28%.
48.    PGN has sufficiently trained staff for its current operations and plans to train additional staff to
handle expanded distribution operations. However, as PGN enters into major gas transmission, including
pipeline construction and operations, it would need an experienced gas utility as equity or joint-venture
partner.
49.    PGN has agreed with the Bank that it would monitor the following indicators over the operational
phase of the project: (a) ROR on re-valued net fixed assets in operation; (b) gas losses; and (c) staff
employed (see table 6).



10
E. Bank Performance
50.    Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. During the project identification and appraisal
stages potential risks to the project were flagged and steps were taken to mitigate these risks in the project
design phase and during project implementation. The Project was simple in design and well focused except for
the customer conversion component which proved superfluous, as customers had access to more attractive
funds. A key aspect of the Bank's role in the project is its contribution to the design and implementation of the
twinning arrangement for PGN. Project supervision was highly satisfactory. Appropriate skill mix and
continuity of the supervision team was an important factor in the satisfactory outcome of the project
supervision. The likely problem areas and remedial measures were flagged well in advance. The Bank was
flexible in extending the loan closing date twice, based on Borrower's cogent reasons. The Bank did not insist
that PGN should proceed with its construction program before it had adequate gas supplies and customer
commitments to purchase gas.
F. Borrower Performance
51.    The Government, as Borrower, generally performed well. All commitments made during negotiations
and covenanted under the loans were fulfilled with the exception of auditing of PGN's accounts by BPPK
which was generally late; also the audit of EPPS was delayed. It is, however, noteworthy that prompt action
was taken to fulfill the commitrnents with regards to reorganization of PGN, enhancement of staff
remunerations, recruitment policy, size of PGN's establishment, and availability of counterpart funds. The
Government also assisted, though not very promptly, in restoration of contracted gas supply from Pertamina
and also allowed PGN to partially make up its loss on this account through a reduction in purchase price over
a fixed period. The Government's policy of enforcing retirement of PGN's staff promptly upon reaching the
retirement age, particularly in the case of senior management (i.e. Directors and President Director), has been
temporarily disruptive and could have been avoided by better succession planning. All in all, the Government
has been supportive in project implementation.
52.    PGN's performance, as Beneficiary, was satisfactory or highly satisfactory on most counts. The
performance covenants under the project were exceeded in all cases, primarily because of PGN's effective use
of the twinning arrangement. Together with the twinning partner, PGN grew its sales substantially due to
effective market development and distribution expansion strategies. By targeting high volume, high return
industries for connection, PGN was able to exceed anticipated sales by 50% with fewer than the originally
estimated number of customers. Moreover, PGN improved the safety of gas operations on its customer's
premises by providing in-house training to its customer's staff on the safe use of gas.
G. Assessment of Outcome
53.    The project results are highly satisfactory because the project achieved or exceeded all of its specific
objectives and has achieved or is highly likely to achieve substantial development results, without major
shortcomings. In spite of the Project's limited leverage to effectively pursue broad sector issues and especially
cross-sector issues, such as energy pricing, the Project has:



11
* provided a venue to enter into broad policy discussions with GOI;
* demonstrated that a significant demand exists for natural gas in domestic industry;
* demonstrated that natural gas is a financially viable alternative to exportable petroleum products
in domestic energy consumption.
54.    The Energy Pricing Policy Study and follow-on Energy Pricing Review, which recommended
efficiency pricing of fuels to achieve the best allocation and most efficient utilization of energy resource,
played a role in increasing gas prices by 20% in November 1990 following similar price increases in
substitute fuels. The EPPS, however, did not achieve the objective of creating an Energy Pricing Unit to
recommend to GOI economic energy prices and monitor energy price movements.
55.    Beyond the anticipated results, the financial success of the Gas Distribution project has also
paved the way for private sector participation in the development of gas sector - PGN has been
permitted by GOI to convert to Persero (joint-stock company), it is expecting to issue bonds on local
capital markets by mid 1995, and it is anticipating a joint-venture partnership with an experienced
gas utilitv during the coming year. A Bank sponsored study looked at private sector financing
arrangements for PGN. Findings of the study reveal a significant level of interest by several large
international gas utilities in forming joint-ventures with PGN or taking an equity position in the
company.
56.    The Project has substantially achieved the economic rate of return target. The re-estimated ERR of
38% and an NPV of $83.2 Mi\IM surpassed the original estimates of 31% and $69 MM, respectively. The
project implementation delays had little impact on the ERR since project benefits were delayed at about the
same rate as project costs. Likewise, the value of gas replaced and the cost of gas were both proportionately
lower due to lower actual crude oil prices. The higher actual ERR is primarily the result of about a 50%
increase over SAR estimates in gas sales volume (88 mmcfd achieved versus 54 mmcfd planned) by the last
year of project implementation.
57.    The financial internal rate of return objectives were substantially met. The re-estimated FIRR with
taxes was 27.1%, slightly lower than 29% predicte- in the S,\R; :he re-estimated FIRR without taxes, 63%,
wvas also slightly lower than the original estimate, 65.3%. The considerable project implementation delays
(totaling 15 months) effectively neutralized the substantially larger price margins attained under the project
(a price margin of 70 Rp/m3 predicted, but actual margins ranged from 96.6 to 150 Rp/m3). The investment
in infrastructure was increased by about S6 NM through the reallocation of customer conversion
component funds to the goods category, however these funds were used to provide additional gas supply
and raise the sales volume higher that originally predicted.
58.    The rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation achieved was originally lower than
expected due to (a) devaluation of the rupiah, which increased the cost of gas, (b) an initially weak
marketing effort and (c) project startup delays. As a result the covenanted ROR target was lowered since
the commencement (March 12, 1991) of the follow-on Gas Utilization Project (Loan 2690-rND). However,
substantial improvement in gas marketing, gas price increases in November 1990, a substantial reduction is
gas losses, reduced gas cost, and an increase in the volume of gas sold, raised the ROR to levels exceeding
the revised covenants. Since 1991, actual RORs have substantially exceeded the 10% ROR target. It should
also be noted that most of PGN's cash generation went to GOI in the form of income tax, DPS contribution,
and social funds. PGN has, thus, contributed more fiscal benefits to GOI than it has received in the form of
GOI equity contributions.



12
59.    Gas losses were reduced from 30% of gas sales to less than 2% within the implementation period of
the project. Enhancement of maintenance and operational procedures, staff skills, and rehabilitation of
portions of existing distribution networks resulted in this steep decline and increased system safety.
H. Future Operations
60.    PGN uith Bank's support commenced the second gas project, the Gas Utilization Project (Loan 3209-
IND) in 1990 which is scheduled for completion in 1996. This project builds upon the first by expanding the
gas distribution network in Medan and introducing natural gas service to East Java. ODA extended the
twinning arrangement to cover this project as well.
61.    PGN is seeking the support of the Asian Development Bank for a natural gas transmission pipeline
which would deliver about 250 mrncfd from the Asamera gas fields in South Sumnatra to Caltex's enhanced oil
recovery operation at Dun' oil fields in Central Sumatra. This project would include a spur transmission line
to Batam Island for a demand (PGN estimates) of about 250 mmcfd by the year 2005. PGN is also seeking
World Bank support for its proposed Gas Development Project to build a natural gas transmission pipeline
between South Sumatra and West Java to bring additional gas supplies to meet the existing West Java
demand. Both the Asamera-Duri-Batam and South Sumatra-West Java projects are likely segments of a
national transmission grid. These are large projects and for their implementation and operation PGN would
require management and technical support which would be best obtained through equity partnership with an
experienced gas utility in the private sector.
62.    PGN plans to convert to Persero in the first quarter of 1995, to enable it to attract potential investors
to help finance the aforementioned projects and provide the necessary management and technical expertise.
PGN is also scheduled to conduct its first bond issue by mid 1995 in the amount of $275 MM to provide
financing for the Asamera-Duri-Batarn project.
63.    A corporate plan indicating a likely development scenario for the company is under preparation.
I. Key Lessons Learned
64.    There are several key lessons to be learned from this project, some which had a major influence on the
project's success and others which were detrimental to the project.
65.    Twinning Arrangement: the long-termn technical collaboration with an experienced gas utility for on-
site managerial, technical, and financial expertise and training to PGN was highly successful as it provided
prompt conmnunication and advice on issues, technology transfer and hands on training through the
implementation of the project.
66.    Focus on Gas Marketing: the key to PGN's rapid sales growth after 1988/89 was the introduction of
appropriate market development techrliques by the twinning tearn who studied the operations of the consumers
and devised a marketing strategy to target and attract high-value added, high-volume industry and then to
"sell" the financial, operational and environmental benefits of gas to each customer in its own terms.
67.    Gas Sales to Lead Construction: PGN, in 1991, insisted that no distribution network construction
would continue until such time as agreed gas volumes from Pertamina could be obtained for sale to customers.



13
Although this decision resulted in a one-year Project extension, the alternative would have likely significantly
reduced PGN's bargaining position, cut its profit margins and threatened the project's viability.
68.    Sequence Distribution Network Construction to Maximize Economic Gains: by constructing and
rehabilitating distribution networks linked to high-valued consumers first, PGN was able to use its resources to
greater efficiency. As a result, greater economic gains were attained with fewer customers.
69.    Don't Include a Component into the Project without Sufficient Commitment and Preparation:
the funds allocated for customer conversion were largely unutilized because the customers had access to more
attractive funds. This indicates insufficient research into alternative sources of financing available to the
customers.
70.   Appropriate Regulatory/Legal Framework: should be in place to ensure that the agreements
between various "players" are adhered to. It should be noted that PGN did not receive the contracted supplies
for about nine months and had little recourse to redress it.
71.    Avoid Hiring consultants About Whom There Are Considerable Technical Reservations: the
EPPS took considerably longer to implement, involved intensive efforts on the part of the Bank to supervise
and in the end the study was not useful for pricing policy recommendations.



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives        Substantial        Parial          Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies              O                 0               O                U
Sector policies                     01                0                *
Financial objectives                 *                0               0 
Institutional development            *                                0               03
Physical objectives                  *                                0               03
Poverty reduction                   0                 0               0                U
Gender concerns                     0                 0               0                0
Other social objectives             0                 0               0                U
Environmental objectives            *                0                0               0
Public sector management             *                0               0                0
Private sector development          Cl                *               0               0
B.  Project sustainabilitv                 Likely               Unlikel]             Uncertain
U                     0                    03
C.  Bank performance                 Hi2hlv satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                          0                     0                     U
Preparation assistance                  0                     *                    0
Appraisal                               *                     0                    0
Supervision                             *                     0                    0
D.  Borrower performance             Highlv satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                             0                     0                     U
Implementation                          *                                          03
Covenant compliance                                           0                    0
Operation                               *                                          03
E.  Assessment of outcome            Highly satisfactory      Satisfactorv           Deficient
*                     0                    0



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose            Year of approval            Status
Preceding Operations
1. none
Following Operations
1. Gas Utilization Project   Accelerate substitution      1990           Under implementation
(Ln 3209-IND)          of exportable petroleum
product fuels in                              Scheduled for
domestic consumption                          completion in 9/96
with non-exportable
natural gas
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned           latest estimate
Identification                                         5-27-1985              5-27-1985
Preparation/Preappraisal                               8-1-1985
Appraisal4                                             11-1-1985               8-1-1985
Negotiations                                           3-28-1986               3-28-1986
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                     5-6-1986                5-6-1986
Signing                                                6-5-1986                6-5-1986
Effectiveness                                          9-5-1986               12-23-1986
First trance release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                     7-31-1992              7-31-1994
Loan closing                                           7-31-1992              7-31-1994
4   Preappraisal mission was converted to appraisal mission.



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS millions)
FYL/            '87    '88    '89    '90    '91    '92        '93     '94       '95
Appraisal estimate          4.8   14.3   23.1   28.9   32.3    34        -        -        -
Actual                     0.17     1.6    9.8   12.0   19.9   21.8   22.13   27.54         31.6
Actual as %of estimate       28     69      52     69     68      65      81       94
Date of final disbursement                                                               Dec 20
2 Fiscal year ending June 30
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.    Key implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report                     Estimated                      Actual
1.   none                                          n/a                           n/a
II.   Modified indicators (if applicable)
1.   none                                          n/a                           n/a
III.  Other indicators (if applicable)
1.   Gas losses                                   < 2%                          < 2%
2.   Rate of Return on revalued net               > 10%                         23%
fixed assets in operation
3.   Gas sales                                  54 mmcfd                      88 mmcfd
4.   Staff employed                               < 1440                         1156



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.    Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                      Estimated                       Actual
1.   none                                           n/a                            n/a
II.   Modified indicators (if applicable)
1.   none                                           n/a                            n/a
III.  Other indicators (if applicable)
1.   Gas losses                                    < 2%
2.   Rate of Return on revalued net                > 10%
fixed assets in operation
.3.   Staff employed"'                             < 1440
S Staff employed covers PGN's second expansion project (Gas Utilization Project, Ln 3209-lND); fiuther projects may require
additional staff.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as defined at         Status               Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1.   Energy Pricing       recommend a              completed             initiated pricing policy
Policy Study (EPPS)  methodology for setting                         discussion with GOI
energy prices in
Indonesia & derive
specific pricing policies
for the short to mediun-
terrn
2.  LPG Feasibility      finance the remaining     $ 200,000 provided to
Study                work on the on-going     complete study
LPG study                financing
3.  Energy Pricing        not identified in the SAR;  completed          (a) initiated pricing policy
Review               purpose was to follow-up                        discussion with GOI
on EPPS & review                               (b) GOI has subsequently
energy prices in                               raised some energy prices in
Indonesia and                                  line with border prices of
recommend changes to                           substitute fuels
GOI pricing policies



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                  Actualllatest estimate
(US$ million)                        (US$ million)
Item                   Local       Foreign                   Local       Foreign
costs       costs       Total        costs        costs       Total
I. Distribution System
Distribution System"                 16.42       15.68       32.10         27.54       25.76       53.30
Technical Assistance &
Computer                           0.00        4.50         4.50         0.00         6.50        6.50
Taxes & Dutiesb'                      7.41        0.00         7.41         0.37        0.00        0.37
Base Cost                           23.83       20.18        44.01        27.91       32.26        60.17
Physical & Price Contin.             6.42         6.21       12.63         0.00         0.00        0.00
Total Cost I                        30.25       26.39        56.64        27.91       32.26        60.17
II. Training
Base Cost                            0.00         0.38        0.38         0.00         0.50        0.50
Physical & Price Contin.             0.00         0.12        0.12         0.00         0.00        0.00
Total Cost II                        0.00         0.50        0.50         0.00         0.50        0.50
IH. Customer Conversion
Equipment & Installation'            2.62        13.86       16.48         2.62        13.86       16.48
Taxes & Duties                       4.50         0.00        4.50         4.50         0.00        4.50
Base Cost                            7.12        13.86       20.98         7.12         4.86       20.98
Physical & Price Contin.             1.99        4.44         6.43         1.99         4.44        6.43
Total CostI                          9.11        18.30       27.41         9.11        18.30       27.41
IV. Studies
LPG Feasibility & Energy
Pricing Policy Studies            0.00         1.20         1.20         0.00        1.09        1.09
Physical & Price Contin.             0.00        0.25         0.25         0.00         0.00        0.00
Total Cost IV                        0.00         1.45        1.45         0.00         1.09        1.09
Total Project (I+II+III+IV)             39.36       46.64        86.00        37.02       52.15       89.17
-                             a-                       -            -- 
Actual foreign costs include about US $6.6 million transferred from the funds allocated under the loan for customer conversion
to finance the expanded scope of this component
b' World Bank projects are exempt from paying import duties and local taxes, therefore actual was much lower than estimated.
u As the funds allocated for customer conversion were not utilized, no exact information on customer conversion is available.
Therefore the appraisal estimate has been used. PGN introduced discounts of its gas price to industrial customers converting from
other fuels to gas. The conversion cost was thus compensated by the lower gas price. This proved to be a more practical solution
than financing through the funds allocated under the loan for customer conversion as originally envisaged. The conversion costs are
thus implicitly reflected in PGN's gas prices.



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                     Actual/atest estimate
(US$ million)                            (US$ million)
Foreign                                  Foreign
Source            Local costs      Costs         Total     Local costs       costs         Total
IBRD                               0.0          34.0          34.0           0.0          31.5          31.5
Bilateral Assistance'              0.0            3.8          3.8           0.0           6.5           6.5
PGN Internal Cash                  6.5            0.0          6.5           1.4           0.0           1.4
Generation'
GOI Equity                        18.3           0.0          18.3          26.6           0.0          26.6
Contributions2'
Commercial Loans                  10.4           0.0          10.4           7.5           0.0           7.5
Consumers'                         4.2            8.8         13.0           1.5          14.2          15.7
TOTAL                            39.4          46.6          86.0         37.0           52.2         89.2
A Additional twinning support required following operational review (see para 39)
v Most of PGN' s cash generation goes to GOI in the forn of income tax, DPS contribution, and social funds. PGN has, thus,
contributed more fiscal benefits to GOI than it has received in the form of govemrnent equity contributions.
3 Actual costs are estimates of consumer's expenditure.



20
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits (ERR)
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)   Re-estimate (US$ million)
Base Case ERR (%)                             31                               38
Base Case NPV(US$ mnillion)                   69                               83
Major Costs
1. Capital Costs                             37.7                             59.1
2. Conversion Costs                           18.6                            15.6
3. O&M Costs                                  1.6                              1.9
4.  Cost of Gas                      34.6 (by end of project)         46.9 (by end of project)
Major Benefits
1. Value of fuel replaced            48.6 (by end of project)        74.2 (by end of project)
2. Volume of gas sold                     402.4 mmcm                       558 mmcm
3. Operator O&M savings               0.7 (by end of project)         0.9 (by end of project)
Table 9B: Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
Appraisal Estimate                        Re-estimate
Project Component     Before Taxes        After Taxes        Before Taxes        After Taxes
Total Project           65                 29                  63                 27



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Type of    Original      Revised        Description of Covenant        Current       Comments
Covenant  Fulfillment  Fulfillment                                    Covenant
Date        Date                                          Status
Description
Loan       3.02(a)        10                        -     Subsidiary loan agre. ment with    In compliance   Condition of
PGN.                                           effectiveness
3.05           5                               GOI shall cause PGN to maintain  In compliance
a salary structure at a level as
remunerative as that of other
similar public corporations.
4.01(b)        1       12/31/90     7/29/94    GOI shall furnish to Bank a     In compliance
crtified copy of audit report on
records and accounts of Part D
(studies) of the project not later
than nine months after end of each
FY.
6.01          10                               A) Subsidiary loan agreement    In compliance   Condition of
executed.                                      effectiveness
B) Borrower has approved        In compliance   Condition of
reorganization of PGN satisfactory             effectiveness
to Bank.
C) Agreement signed with        In compliance   Condition of
established gas utility to assist              effectiveness
PGN.
D) PGN has signed long-term     In compliance   Condition of
contracts for timely supply of                 effectiveness
required quantity of natural gas.
Project    2.06.           5        4/1/87      6/30/87    A) PGN shall prepare a rolling  In compliance
five year plan of gas requirements
by the end of each FY and discuss
the plan with GOI, gas supplier
and the Bank within 3 months.
1/1/87                B) By Jan. 1 of each calendar   In compliance
year, PGN shall prepare an
investment program and furnish it
for Bank's comments.
2.07.         10        9/30/86     4/15/87    PGN shall prepare and furnish for  In compliance
Bank's approval, the detailed
operating procedures for
implementation of the customer
.________          .     conversion  program.            ___                   _



Agreement    Section        Type of       Onrginal       Revised          Description of Covenant              Current         Comments
Covenant   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                                              Covenant
Date          Date                                                 Status
Description
2.08              5         3/31/87        6/30/87    PGN shall prepare and furnish         In compliance
for Bank's review/comment a
detailed training program.
3.03(b)           5         6/30/87        6/30/88     PGN shall carry out a review of    In compliance
its existing insurance practices
and discuss the results with
Bank.
4.01(b)           I                                    PGN shall fumish to the Bank         In compliance    Previous
audited financial statements not    since FY93         statements
later than nine months after the                       were delayed
end of each FY.                                        due to late
audit by gov't
auditor
4.02              5         7/31/88        12/15/88    PGN shall carry out a review of    In compliance
its gas tariffs, discuss the results
with GOI and Bank and
thereafter make any necessary
adjustments of gas tariffs.
4.03              2          4/1/89         1/1/91     Realize ROR not less than 10%        In compliance
on revalued net assets in
..._______ .__________.__________.___________           operation.
Full text of General Covenant Cassification
Class       Description
I        Accounts/audit
2        Financial performancelgenerate revenue from beneficiaries
3        Flow and utilization of Project funds
4        Counterpart funding
S        Management aspects of the Project or its executing agency
6         Environmental covenants
7         Involuntary resettlement
8         Indigenous people
9         Monitoring, review and reporting
1 0       Implementation
II        Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12        Sectoral or cmss-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
1 3       Other



23
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle          Planned"                 Revised                  Actual
Weeks        US$        Weeks         US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal                                                            68.5
Appraisal--Board                                                             35.0
Board--effectiveness                                                         10.0
Supervision                                                                 100.5
Completion                                                                   12.0
TOTAL                                                                      226.0
Data other than Actual is not provided by the MIS or Asia Files.



24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized    Implemen-   Develop-
Stage of         Month/    Number of   Days in    staff skills            tation        ment        Types of
project cycle      vear        persons        field      represented      status       Impact       problems
Through        May 85              1            7       Energy               _
appraisal      July 85             5            15      Economist
Fin. Analyst
Gas Spec., Fin.
Analyst
Appraisal       Sept 85            1            3       Gas Spec.                                  project
through Boar                                                                                       schedule &
approval                                                                                           staff-ng
Board
approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision    March 87            2            6       Gas Spec.                                  m 1  market
Fin. Analyst                              identification,
system design,
procurement,
firancial
viability
Nov 87             2            8       Gas Spec.            j                     market
Energy                                    development,
Economist                                 skills
March 88           2            12      Gas Spec.            1             1       financial,
Fin. Analyst                              marketing,
institutional
Nov 88             2            12      Gas Spec.            1             1       operational
Fin. Analyst                              planning,
system
optimization,
financial
viability
May 89             2            10      Gas Spec.            1             1       insufficient
Fin. Analyst
June 90   .        2            10      Gas Spec.            1             1       insufficient
Fin. Analyst                              gas supply
May 91             2            8       Gas Spec.            1             1       system
Fin. Analyst                              optimization,
long term
planning
Oct 91             2            5       Gas Spec.            1             1       procurement
Fin. Analyst                              processing
June 92            2            8       Gas Spec.            1             1       procurement
Fin. Analyst                              processing
Feb 93             2            7       Gas Spec.            I             1
I Fin. Analyst                                 _____



25
Specialized   Implemen-   Develop-
Stage of        Month!    Number of   Days in   staff skills       tation       ment       Types of
project cycle    year        persons      field    represented      status      Impact    problems
May 94           3           5      GasSpec.            1           1
Fin. Analyst
Energy
_  Economist   _
Completion    Oct 94            2           8      Gas Specialist    _
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Fin.  A nalyst
Table 13: Formal Training Places Filled
Technical (eg. planning and design, construction, operations and maintenance,
instrumentation and metering, specialist technical courses)                                      745
Finance (eg. financial management, accounting, payroll management, budgeting and audit)           280
Specialist functional/management (eg. marketing, procurement, legal, admin. procedures)           110
General management/personnel (eg. senior management training, corporate strategy,
management development, project management and appraisal, job evaluation and personnel            450
management
Total                                                                                            1585






AIDE IEMOIRE
1.     A World Bank -isson consisng of Messrs S. Kawaja (vission LeaderlSr. Gas Specialist) and
Ms. Dawvn Vecmilya (Financial Analyst) visited Intdonea from Scptmber 26 to October 7, 1994 for the
preparalion of Implcminanon  Compieion Report (ICR) of the Gas Distbution Project (Loan 2690-IND)
and supnrvision of the Gas Urisation Project (Loan 3209-IND). The mission held discussions with
oficials of TIhe Ministry of Mines and E=rty, MIGAS, BAPPENAS, LEMIGAS, PGN, the United
Kingdom Overseas Develop Qent Association (UKODA) and British Gas. The mission ac3owledges with
thanks the courtesies and co-operation extended by the Government cf Indonesia and its agences.
2.     A list of people met during the mission visit is given in Annex 1. The findings of the mission are
summarised as follows.
L Gas Distriburion Projeca (Loan 3209-LND) - ICR Preparation
3.     The mission received the necessary data and reviewed the project implemenmtion covering, inter
alia, the aspects of project design, impleentantion plnning, orpnisaron and cost; procurement of goods
and services; loan disbursements; economic benefits and susainability. Special attention was paid to: gas
market development, design and constuction of nw gas distibution infims =ture and rehabilitation af
old disriution networks; PGN's instimtional development and finaneial health MIGAS, PGN and
UKODA were apprised of the preliminary findingp of this review which, in summary are:
*  the project substantially achieved its main objtves of development of gas markets in Jaarta, Bogor
and Medan and, institution building of PGN;
*  aca-1 sales (88MMCFD) exced the target (54NICvD) by about 50% with fewer connections and a
higher customer denity  at the pipelines than supilnaed at project appraisal, due to skllfil
idenification and attachment of higher yield customes;
*  the 'twinning' approach to PGN's insrrution building (involving long term technical collaboration
with British Gas) has been verv successful. Under a well designed sks upgraiing and technology
transfer pro gam involving on-the-job training in parallel with project implementation, as wel as
1650 course places on discrete courses, within the county and ovrseas, PGN has acquired a core
staff of 190 professionals (engineers, accountants sae execuds, economists) and 260 technicians
PGON is now capable of  aging its business at the current level of development without any  or
technical assismnce;
*  based on the audited financial statements for FY's 91, 92 and 93 and unadi  statements of FY 94
PGN achievd a rare of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed at in operation of about 18%, 22%s
23e/., and 14% (estmated for 1994) respecdvely, we1 in excss of the 10% ROR covenanted under
the Loan 2690-INJD and the amended 4% for FY's 91-93 covenanted inder the subsequa Lam
3209-IND; the number of staff (1156) is well below the agreed ceiling (1440) and the gas le (30%
in 1986) are less than 2%;
4.     The mission's draf of the Implementation Completion Report, reflecting the above finding is
expeaced to be sent to GOL PGN and UKODA by end November 1994.
Ahocr
.,



Operamional Plan
5.     A plan was agr=d with PGN for the operaional phase of the Gas Distnbu2ion Project (1994 to
2008). The basic premisc of this plan was that PGhN  ould need to incres  its supply of namural gas
bevond the current limits of 88I MMCFD in order to meet the main objectve of the Gas Distibuticn
Project - which was to inces ase the uw  of nanzral gas as a ue in the domestic  ark:t. The most libkly
sourc: of additional gas sunplies ws assumed to be nantral gas sen via a South Sumarra to West Java
tansmission pipeline. The pipeline was assumed to send 250 NMCFD to Jalakr/Bogor beginning in
1998 (for a 20 year period) fcr use in general industry where netback values are the highesL Furthermore
the assumed cost of gas at the transmission pipeline inlet was SI.40/m1  Total investment for the
transmission and distribuon components of the project were estmated at S350 tM, assuming a 30W
diameter, 330 mile length transmission pipeline (270 miL. onshore, 60 ml. fshore) with 700 psig at the
transmission  pipe inlet and 335 psig at its outlet  This Operational Plan scnario yielded a viable
finnnei-l internal rate of renn Cf 23% after tax (21% if the cost of gas was raised to S2.00/mcf) and is
considered a viable oprion for expanding PGN's gm supply in Jakart and Bogor.
IL GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT (I!N3209-JYD) - SIPERVI9IOION
Gas Supply
6.     For gas suppiy to Jakaxta/Bogor PGN now has agreed contracts for 49 MMv D, 7 MM:CD and
13 MM2CFD. Discussions are currently talcng place with Prtnamina regarding the supply of an additional
10 MMCFD. At the Mura Karang and Tanjung Priock power stations in North Jakarta, ARCO is
presently supplying 195 MMCFD of a contracted daily quairty of 260 MMCD. In Medan preparations
are underway for the completion af the PGN pipeie reinforcement to the PLN power station at Blawan
and the completion of the Prratmina pipeline from Wampu-Pangkalan Brandon. Upon completion of
thes works PGN would cary an additional 60 MMCFD, on behalf of Perramina to the power station,
commencing in mid 1995.
farketing
7.     PGN gas sales forecasr for the current calendar year indicates that total annual sales would reach
21,312 MM1CF in Jakarta and 3,688 NMCF in Bogor. Current daily sales figures for the Jakarta/Bogor
area are peakng at about 80 hMMCFD with the average daily raue being 75 MMCFD. A large number of
requests for new gas supplies are received every month in Jakarta area. Unless further supplies can be
contracted from Pertamina sales growth in the indusmial sector in Jakarta and Bogor would reain
constrained.
8.     InMedan the recovery of gas sales to 1992 levels is expected to continue. Sales are currently
averaging 7.6 MMCFD. The resumption of sales to a large glass factory possbly in mid 1995 should
ensure that this recovery is mrntaed and in addition a number of new factories are to be connectd
during the rcmainder of 1994.
9.     In Surabaya a total number of 11 customers have been connecd to the network and are curetly
using approximatdy 3-4 MMCFD. It is anncipased that sales by the end of the year wilI be in the region of
6 MMCFD. Work is proceeding on the constction of the distribuion networks to the RIi   int  dStil
area and an aditional 9/10 consums will be connected to this nework following the completion of
consuuction in late 1994. Metering/regulating stations have been de3vcred from Pietro Florentini in Itl
and will be islled during the next few months.
AM4OCr



Financial Performance
10.    Based on the audited finannial statements for FY's 92 and 93 and PGNh finannial projectons for
1994, PG;N's finannal performance ccrntnes to be healthy as measured by its ROR on revalued net fix:d
assets in operaznon, which is expected to be about 14% for thz 1994 calendar year. FY 94's ROR is lower
than that of 1993, when ROR was 23%', due to the coxmpltion af the gi=a period for the Gas Distibution
loan (Loan 2690-IND) and subsequent commencement loan principle repayment  In adition, the
assumed average gas sales margin for 1994 is smaier than in 1993 due to increased sales volumes at a
higher gas sales cost Gas sales margns are expe=ed to increase to above 1993 levels in 1995 wh.
average gas sales price increases by 10%.
11.    Financi  projections throueh 2004 assume that both the Asamera - Duri - Batam and South
Sumara - West Java pipeline projects are implemented, that PGN secares S275 million of convertble
bonds in 1995, and that PGN scils 95  MMCD  in Jakar=Bogor beginning in 1996. Under then
circumstances, PGN's finanmal performance drops below the ROR on revalued net ficed assets target af
10% in 1998, 1999 and 2000 (ranging between 6.4% to 9.8%); in years 2001 to 2004 RORs are well in
excess of 10%. On a historical basis, ROR on net fLxed assets in operanon are 13.2% in 1997, 13.3% in
1998, 14.4% in 1999, 7.8% in 2000, and above 16% thereafter (note: ROR on a historical cost basis
should be higher thanb on a rev alued basis because the underlying asset value is smaller). Annual net
cashtLo%s are: negative in 1994 due to cantial investment of S 53 MM; are postive in 1995 whea a new
loan from ADB commences, and PCN issues S275 million in convermbie bonds; negative in 1996 and
1997 when candal investznent reaches a hizh of S 410 MMv and positive from there on out. The negade
annual net cash flows are covered by PGN's build up of cash reserves from pr.or years.
12.    Of primarv concern is the ability of PGN to pia;c S275 million in converdvble bonds in 1995. If
PGN does not receive these convermtble bonds, which can be teated as temporary equity on PGN's balan
sheet, the debt to total caitai ratos would rise bevond accptable limits (80%) - to 81% in 1996, 86% ix.
1997, 84% in 1998, 82% in 1999. Moreover, without this convertible bond purchase or an equivale=
equity injecdon into PGN bv 1995 or early 1996, PGN would not have the financial resources to underta
both the Asamera - Duri -Batan and South Sumatra - West Java projects simultaneously. A guarantee by
investors showing their intent to purchase xaveruble bonds in the amount of S275 million should be on
the crtical path of any follow-on project (i.e. the Gas Development Project).
13.    PGN has successuly carned out the Efficiency Improvement Propam established under the Gas
Utilisation Project (Loan 3290-IND). All the performance idicators covering gas sales, gas losses,
nuimber of staff and rate of return have been achicied
Procurement and Disbursement
14.    PGNs procurement plans (Aanexes 2 and 3) for the remaining project implementaion period
were reviewed. A total of 4 consruction packages and 10 equipment procurement package are at various
stages of processing, a summary of these packages is given below.
AMZMOC



S tan4                 No of Packazes       Packaez dent:4=tcn
Bids R:ccved                         1              PGNIWB5/94/1C
Cont-at unri- preparation             I              PGN/WBIEDD11
Evaluation complete                   2              PiN/WB/W/1
Awaiting NOL tender                   1              PGNIWBJP/I
document
Awaiting deliverv                     2              PIN/WB/5/94/lA
PGN/WB/8/9411
Tender documents in                   7              1 works, 6 materials
preparanion
15.    The procurement plan is ambitious but it is feasible, with the possible exception of the offl
metering package. For expeditious processing cf the meterig package (PGN/WBI8/94/4) PGN should
ensure that specifications and quantities are prepared as quickly as possible to enable the procuremet
process to cormence. In adidition PGN needs to improve its matrials stock position aiming to procure
mate-.als one Year ahead of construcion. Mhis would allow for unforeseen delavs in the procurement
cycle. Adherencc to the anached timetable vill be essental if PON are to complete all of the existing
planned procurement before the loan closing date in September 1996.
16.    Under the above plans, of the total USS 76 millio, allocatd to the project components to be
implemented by PGN, about USS 61 million is expected to be disbursed by September 1996; for the
utihisaion of the remaining USS 15 million, PGN is reviewing a number of options in the project arcas of
East Java and North Sumra and will send proposals to the Bank for comment.
17.    As the Asamera-Duri project in South Sumata approaches the implementation stage PGN WM
need to direct considerable resoures to assist in the procurement of 'long lead items' such as pipe, valv
and fittings and other items of equipment. To ensure that this does not have a nepaive impact on the
procurement activities related to the Gas Utilisation Project. PGN should review the operations of the
procurement division and the likely impact of the Asamera-Duri project and stengthen the division as
appropriate.
18.    Design of the four offlake metering station is expected to commence in late 1994. On completion
of the design, tender documents will be prepared for procurement oa tunky basis under Bank guideline
Coostnuction Activities
19.    During the period May-October 1994 a total of 9 km of new steel pipelines were consruted. The
supply to PT. Asia Tile was completed, the factory will use gas for power generation and process, total
supply will be about 10 MMCFD. Ia addition a number of sewvice lines and regulators wre insUlled to
induscial customers in advance of main pipeline construction.
Training
20.    A number of technicians have commenced the second diploma course at the MIGAS training
facility in Cepu. The technicians from the first course are now undergoing on the job training.
21.    The post graduate training in the UK is currendy being atrrded by four professionals from PGNN.
Another group of training packages, featuring courses of shorter duration is planned for 1995.
22.    Five professionals from PGN are currently at the ILO training centre in Turin attending a 4 week
course for Procurement of Works.
AMocr



Instirutonal Strengthening
23.    PGNs proposal and draft cOnn. docurent for the funding of 48 m=-months of British Gas
experts under Loan 3209-IND vas cleared by the Bank in April 1994. Conformed ccpies of the conra
document are now awaited . PGN should expedite the sigaing Cf the connact
24.    The support to PGN under twinning arrangements with British Gas is now drawing to a clos: A
total of 100 -n months under IJKODA gant remain available which are consid-red sufficien for PCGNs
rquirements until Decembr l995, when UTKODA support would cs.
25.    While PGN is capable of manging its ongoing business acnvirics, it would require frther
enhancment of its technicaL rnannagrial and financial c3npailities to hndle large scal e   an
projecs now  under consideranon. Conversion to Prsem  and establishing a joint ventnre/eqity
parmership with an cxperiencnd gas utaity would be an cci=n way of obtaining such experse and PGN
is acsvel following this approach. It is, howver, not crmin that such a parmvhip can be  bMic
befiore the C^try af the rwinning arrangement (ill December 195). PGN has therefore instmted a rcvifw
of is ornisation, and current and planned acuvinetis to ascermin its technical assistanc requireme for
the interim penod and intends to send it to the Bank for comments by end January 1995.
TEIOGAS
26.    TKOGAS staff now rcmprises 41 emplovess. A total of 24 staff (6 more than orignaly
scheduled) have riered uainizg at the Institute of Gas Technology (IGT), Cbicago, USA since
September 1993. The taaing program has been accelesated to provide basic taining forthe staff to
become acvivly involved in the TE2NOGAS projects. By the end of second contact year (ending
September 1995), 36 staff are scheduled to have completed taining ulnder the program.
27.    The institutional development program has, in general. followed the schedule, however, tbe
highest priority acvitry, development of codes and standards for Indonesian gas industry, has not
progressed at the rate anticipated and requires more attention from T=iOGAS and resident IGT st;f
TEKNOGAS conducted two workshops in Semarang and Jakarta on pipeline riskl management and
pipeline integrity. It is currently involved in monitoring of quality assurance of Pertnmina's Citrak-Tepl
Gede (West Java) gas pipeline.
28.    The mission advised that in accordance vith secuon 4.01 of the Loaa Agree=nt for Loan No.
3209-ND Lemigas should provide the Bank with audited financial stareemnts fo TEKNOGAS within
nine months afrer the end of each financial year. As LEMIGAS's financial year ends March 3 1, these
statements for FY 1993/94 should be sent to the Bank before December 31, 1994.
Compliance with Loan Covenants
29.    PGN, hlIGAS and LEMIGAS are in compliance with all covenants under Loan No. 3209-IND.
Washington, D. C.
November 3, 1994
AM"OCr



Aannx
LIST OF KEY PEOPLE NFET
Mfinistrv of NTines & Enezy
Dr. Umar Said                            Secretary General
MNIGAS
Ir. Suyitno Patmosuisisno               Dire-tor General
Dr. Rachmat Sudibvo                      Director, Excpioration & Production
BAPPENAS
Dr. Richard ClapforTh                    Chie4 Bureau of Mines & Energy
Ir. Bemby Uripto
MIr. Hann Nugroho
Drs. A. Qoyum                            President Director
Drs. W.M.P. Simandjuntak                 Director Fnance
Ir. Rohali Sani                         Director En!neerina
rr. Oemar Hasan Soewarno                 Director Development
Nirboyo SH                               Direcor Administon
LENTIGAS
Ir. Soebiyanto                           Di?ector
Ir. Hendro Prawoto                       Head, TEKYOGAS
British Gas
Mr. Bernard Milne                        Resident Manager



Gas Distributon Project: Operational Plan (1994 to 2008)
The main objective of the Gas Distribution Project (Loan No. 2690-IND) was to facilitate the
penetration of natural gas as a fuel in the domestic market. To this end, the project helped creat
natural gas markets in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan areas during the implementation period (December
1987 to July 1994). The premise of the Operational Plan for the Gas Distribution Project is that the
momentum of this development process should be maintained during the remainder of the project
life, 1994 to 2008 so as to maxinize the use of natural gas. While in the Medan area the gas supply
and distribution networks would be adequate due to expansion under the ongoing Gas Utilization
Project (Loan 3209-IND), Jakarta and Bogor would need an additional gas supply and additional
distribution networks. This could be achieved through a follow-on project to bring additional 250
mmcfd natural gas supplies from South Sumatra to West Java. The Operational Plan, therefore,
assumes that a natral gas transmission pipeline will be constructed from South Sumatra to West
Java under the proposed Gas Development Project.
The current demand for natural gas in Jakarta and Bogor is about 200 mmcfd more than what
is currently being supplied (79 mmcfd), based on Perum Gas Negara's (PGN's) waiting list of
customers. The South Sumatra - West Java (SS-WJ) gas transmission pipeline could bring up to 350
nmmcfd to Jakarta/Bogor if gas supply contracts were available in South Sumatra in this amount In
order to realize this additional gas supply, a total investment of about USS 350 million would be
required to construct transmission and distribution networks, with the bulk of the investment
occurring in 1998 and 1999 for construction of the transmission pipeline. Gas delivery via the
transmission pipeline would begin in 2000 at a volume of 50 mmcfd rising by 50 n,mcfd per year (the
assumed absorptive capacity of Jakarta/Bogor) until it reached 250 nmucfd, leveling off thereaftr.
For simplification of the Operational Plan, it was assumed that PGN would buy natural gas at the
inlet price to the transmission pipeline at a price of Sl.40/mcf (this is the same price which is being
negotiated under a similar gas transmission project in South Sumatra).
All additional 250 mmcfd gas supplies are assumed to be sold to general industry in Jakarta
and Bogor as opposed to carrying the gas for a transmission fee to the combined cycle power plant
in Cilegon because the netback values for natural gas are the higher in general industry (as concluded
in the World Bank Report No. 10293-IND, Natural Gas Development Planning Study). Detailed
assumptions underpinning the Operational Plan are provided in the attached summary. Per the
attached assumptions, the FIRR of the Operational Plan (using cashflows from 1987 to 2008) is 23%
after tax and 42%MO before taxes (and social fund).
PGN has sufficiently trained staff and has the ability to train more staff to manage its
distribution operations. PGN would, however, require expertise in gas transmission (ppline
construction, as well as operations) for which it plans to take an experienced gas utility as equity or
joint-venture partner.
PGN has agreed with the Bank that it would monitor and maintain the following indicators
over the operational phase of the project: (a) a ROR on re-valued net fixed assets in operation of at
least 10%; (b) a debt to total capital employed ratio of under 80%.; and (c) a gas loss percet below
2%.



GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (LOAN 2=4ND)
OPERATIONAL PLAN SU)ARY(1994- 2008)
JAKARTAIBOGORJMEDAN/CIREBON
S. OPERATIONAL COSTS
a. TrarwnimmanAiwd              2.5% annualy of umisdve fmnwm  uwone
b. O' rib "  eiwad              6% annu5% ay of mmjdv daWnA*on vuotnwe
6.  EXCHANGE RATE                    USS 1 3 Rp. Z175hI 1994rmnui   wurwVgd for the ywstur.fta
7.  DOMESTIC INFQATION RATE          10% hI 1994, 6   w. I fter
INTERNATIONAL INFLATION RATE  22% hI a y*11 per WB' May 194 Price Ca*ige S mic emo
8.  FINANCING OF SS -WJ              75% finaSin  by Waid Bar* ban; 25% by GOUPGN hfnds; no equity o conveWe bonds
9.  OEPRECIATION RATE                20 year sfalt4I depracadn caluiwd   5% per yev of not fbcad asseW
10. INTEREST RATE                    12% per yew of buAWxn loan bWv
11. TAX RATE                         35% of nrt  bincome -11.5(11 .S awntfor graduatad  x ruts)
12. SOCIAL FUND                      20% of prV s yewtr * x tnao
13. GAS RECUPERATED                  Imam   reducon h g  lsse * gsaes pri
14. SS - WJ PIPEUNE SPECIFICATIONS
M. Diameter                          30 hch
b. Oflh  IagU                        60 ml.
c. Ove,a  1ngUh                     330 mi.
d. Wkl pret,w                       700 pug
*. Ou*L prUaure                     335 peag
15. SS-WJ CAPACrIY
a. Trunasion Ciapety                350 im
b. Capacky ulilon                  64%
Pogo 2



tv66 L9Z .j~qW,9AON
C:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ': ;; . .'.  ;; . .: .Z :.: ." .  '.': . . .-' .  ::,; . . .  ':',: ': ,' .. .. .. .. .. ...  ::'' . .:.                                                                 ..........................                                                                          
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... . 
:,i ~               ~                 aN-O9 ,:i>U~   I~
j~ ~ pd~    b66eIwo 1                                                                  uoSZ           uoweIdwN
.~~~~~~~~W ..L ijr'~U4J  fUE   f
i~~~~~~eEB SN~Wlf  eLSla
::-
.Uc
I7:






Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
WORLD BANK LOAN 2690
1. Background
1.1 Historically, Indonesia has been very dependent on oil and liquefied natural gas exports as
sources of foreign exchange, demands for which are fuelled by spiralling capital-intensive
manufacturing growth. GDP growth has averaged over 6% during the last decade, and the
government has targeted continuing growth at similar levels, underpinned by further
industrialisation.
1.2 The availability of oil for export has, however, been restricted in recent times by falling
production levels, and is expected to fall off further in the next few years, and so the Government
is prompted to utilise its abundant indigenous reserves of natural gas more effectively.
1.3 A key element of its strategic response to the current scenario is to displace oil and petroleum
products with non-exportable natural gas in domestic markets where possible, and there is
tremendous potential for doing so in general industrial markets. Furthermore proven reserve to
consumption ratios are significantly higher for natural gas (around 50 years as opposed to around
20 for oil), and substantial proportions of proven reserves are suitable for development and
utilisation domestically. The need to exploit natural gas more effectively is further underscored
by the country's increasingly acute deficiencies in power generation, for which gas is a prime
fuel. There are also, of course, substantial environmental benefits to be gained from the increased
domestic utilisation of gas.
1.4 It has long been our view that as the state-owned distribution company Perusahaan Umum
Gas Negara (PGN) is the agency best placed to promote and implement a domestic gas utilisation
policy. PGN was created in 1958 by the nationalisation of Dutch gas distribution operations in
various locations throughout Indonesia. The legacy of distribution networks in extremely poor
states of repair, coupled with the fundamental uncompetitiveness of gas manufacturing, left PGN
for many years with little prospect of profitability and anything other than providing a basic
social amenity to a small core of predominantly household consumers.
1.5 The availability of natural gas in the late 1970's provided the opportunity to discontinue
manufacturing operations, although PGN was still unable to capitalise on the opportunities this
presented at that time due to a shortage of capital and a lack of technical and management
capabilities.
1.6 This project and the subsequent Gas Utilisation Project (Loan 3209-IND) were designed to
rectify those shortfalls, to provide a platformn for the turnround of PGN, and to enable PGN to
I



make the beginnings of large scale inroads into the very large potential markets for natural gas in
its existing supply areas, mainly in the industrial and commercial markets.
2. Project Objectives and Description
2.1 The main objectives of the project were to assist PGN to promote the high-value use of
natural gas within its supply areas, by constructing additional distribution networks and replacing
and rehabilitating unsafe and leakage-prone existing networks, and to develop PGN's technical
and managerial capabilities to plan and implement system expansion and to operate distribution
networks efficiently and economically. The project also sought to support the review of sector
policies, specifically with regard to energy pricing.
2.2 To achieve these objectives, the project primarily involved a gas distribution and technical
assistance component, comprising:
(a) the installation of approximatelv 218 km of high pressure bulk transmission pipelines and 535
km of medium pressure urban distribution mains
(b) the installation of 10 pressure control stations and associated facilities
(c) the construction/rehabilitation of individual service lines to supply approximately 350
industrial, 800 commercial and 12700 household customers (and associated metering)
(d) the provision of a meter maintenance facility, telecommnunications and monitoring systems,
information technology and other office equipment
(e) the establishment of a twinning relationship with an established and experienced overseas gas
utility to strengthen PGN's technical and management capabilities
(f) the provision of technical, vocational and management training for PGN staff
2.3 In addition the project included a customer conversion component involving the installation
of pipework within customer's premises and the conversion of their equipment and appliances to
operate on natural gas. It also supported a GOI' energy pricing policy study and provided a
retrospective contribution to an LPG feasibility study initially funded by a World Bank Technical
Assistance Credit.
2.4 The project targeted the expansion of gas distribution infrastructure into industrial and
commercial areas in Jakarta and Bogor in West Java, and in Medan in North Sumatera, along
with the upgrading of PGN's existing assets wherever economically justified. Some provision
was also included to enable PGN to improve the condition of its old networks in other locations
within its area of operations.
Government of Indonesia
2



2.5 At appraisal, the estimated project cost was US$ 86m with an foreign exchange component of
US$ 46.6m. to be financed bv a World Bank loan of US$ 34m, bilaterat assistance of US$ 3.8m
and customer expenditure of US$ 8.8m. The local component of US$ 39.4m was to be funded
from GOI equity contributions to PGN (US$ 18.3m), commercial loans (US$ 10.4m), PGN's
internal funds (US$ 6.5m), and customer expenditure (US$ 4.2m). Project costs and financing
arrangements are summarised in Tables I and 2.
2.6 The project objectives for PGN were unambiguous and achievable in practical terms although
demanding a significant degree of concurrent organisational, management and technical
development within the company. The physical objectives of the main components were
structured sufficiently flexibly to enable PGN to react to transient market opportunities and
changing priorities in their own development programme.
2.7 The principal focus of the project was on market development through the identification and
attachment of high yield customers and the efficient planning, design and construction of gas
distribution systems and facilities: PGN was already familiar with the fundamentals involved,
although the scale of the project (projecting a seven-fold increase in PGN's sales) introduced a
further degree of complexity in implementation.
2.8 Project risks were identified at appraisal in terms of security of supply, delays in market
development, adverse fuel price scenarios and shortfalls in institutional capabilities, although all
were assessed as marginal in comparison to the expected project benefits.Where necessary
however they were mitigated against in the project design.
3. Project design
3.1 PGN was assigned overall responsibility for project implementation, with the exception of
the study elements. Technical assistance during implementation was provided by a twinning
arrangement with an experienced overseas operator. Twinning agency staff assisted primarily in
gas market development, distribution system design work, construction supervision and skills
upgrading and provided support and consultancy in project management.
3.2 The SAR recommended, and PGN actioned, a functional restructuring at Board level, and the
delegation of construction responsibility to specialist project managers at the local operating
units. Contract administration and quality control functions were handled centrally.
3.3 It was envisaged that construction would be carried out by local contractors, and no problems
were envisaged (or encountered) with manpower availability or skill capabilities. Direct
supervision by PGN was used, supplemented by the use of independent external QAIQC
agencies where appropriate.
3.4 The responsibility for the planning and coordination of all customer conversion and
installation activities was assigned to the Board member responsible for operations, with on-site
supervision delegated to the local operating unit manager. The twinning agency provided
technical and supervisory support.
3



3.5 With some functional reorganisation, the existing corporate structure within PGN was
considered adequate to deal with the development programme resulting from the implementation
of the project, given the enhancement of capabilities through additional training and technical
and management support from the twinning agency.
3.6 Major items of procurement were sourced using international competitive bidding in
accordance with World Bank guidelines. Certain small value items were bought "off the shelf',
again in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.7 Implementation was envisaged in the initial design over a six year period. The SAR assessed
the impact of possible variations in the project timescale as relatively minor, in terms of both
costs and rates of return.
3.8 No environmental problems were anticipated as a result of implementing the project, and the
net environmental effect was expected to be strongly positive. Natural gas is the most benign of
fossil fuels, once constructed infrastructure is buried and hence largely invisible and unobtrusive,
and appropriate technical standards were specified and used for design and construction.
Furthermore, the project was expected to significantly reduce environmental hazards and incident
risks from gas leakage from existing systems.
3.9 PGN was tasked with providing quarterly progress reports to the Bank covering technical
issues, expenditure, management and operations, and conversion activities. These were as a
supplement to standard supervision and monitoring mechanisms.
4. Achievement of objectives
Physical objectives
4.1 The main physical project objectives were to (a) expand distribution systems in the main
PGN supply areas, attach more customers to increase the use of natural gas in high value markets
and (b) undertake rehabilitation of leakage-prone parts of the existing networks, increasing
operating safety and reducing unacceptably high levels of gas losses.
4.2 These objectives were substantially achieved: a ten-fold increase in gas sales has been
generated (from 77 mmcm in 1985 to a budgeted 841 mmcm in 1994), almost 11000 additional
customers have been connected, and over 600 km of new transmission and distribution pipelines
have been constructed. Detailed comparison of these parameters with the original SAR objectives
is provided in Table 3.
4.3 The success of the marketing effort enabled PGN to maximise the effectiveness of the project
investment by prioritising construction activity to service the larger industrial loads. As a result
PGN have achieved (and indeed exceeded) the primary sales target, but from a smaller
infrastructure and customer base than that originally thought necessary.
4



4.4 The customer conversion component of the project (ie. the installation of internal piping and
the installation of equipment and/or its conversion to natural gas operation) was undertaken
successfully and concurrently with the expansion of the networks.
4.5 The rehabilitation of substantial portions of the existing networks has also been successfully
carried out. A total of around 200 km of old cast iron distribution mains have been replaced
during the life of the project, improving or restoring supplies to approximately 3000 customers in
the process. Gas losses as a percentage of sendout have been reduced from up to 30% at the
inception of the project to 2% in 1994 (estimated outturn). This is comparable to levels of
unaccounted for gas achieved by utilities in developed countries.
4.6 A number of other technical infrastructure objectives in support of this core expansion and
upgrading of supply systems were also specified in the SAR. Seven additional pressure control
stations and associated equipment have been installed along with a sophisticated
telecommunications system, enabling PGN to remotely monitor and control the operation of the
city gate stations and facilities supplying major customers. A significant amount of IT
equipment, software and other office equipment has also been purchased, and many systems are
now computerised throughout the organisation and linked to a corporate communications
network.
4.7 The planned replacement of a meter maintenance facility was deferred from the project in
favour of a lower cost alternative of upgrading existing workshops to an acceptable standard,
and surplus funds from this, together with reduced requirements for linepipe and pressure control
stations, were used for the procurement of other infrastructure items deemed more appropriate in
the light of PGN's changing requirements and development.
Institutional development objectives
4.8 The principal institutional objectives of the project were:
(a) to strengthen PGN's technical and management capabilities by twinning with an established
gas utility,
(b) to provide local and overseas training for PGN staff in management, finance, accountancy
and engineering, and to facilitate the transfer of technology, and
(c) to support GOI sector initiatives, nanely studies in energy pricing policy and LPG feasibility.
4.9 The twinning arrangement incorporated into the project design has proved to be a cornerstone
of the project's success, and has achieved a substantial degree of organisational development
within PGN in line with the project objectives. It has been fundamental in supporting the rapid
growth in sales and profitability, in achieving quantum increases in skill levels and the transfer of
technology, and it has facilitated improved management and control resulting in more effective
use of resources.
5



4.10 The twinning design involved an experienced overseas operator seconding a teamn of
technical and management experts to work alongside counterparts within PGN to provide skills
transfer, ongoing consultancy support and to act as a role model. The strength and composition
of the twinning team has been varied to suit changing project requirements.
4.11 A core element of the twinning effort has been the implemetation of appropriate technical
standards and operating procedures within the company. Over the life of the project these have
progressively covered the full range of PGN's operations, ie. gas marketing, system planning and
design, pipeline construction, operating and maintenance procedures, utilisation engineering and
specialist operations.
4.12 At the outset of the project, technical capabilities within the company were very limited and
based on a few technical standards which had been procured from overseas on an ad hoc basis,
with little regard for consistencv or implementation issues in the local environment. In contrast,
PGN now has a relatively comprehensive suite of internal codes of practice reflecting leading
industrv practice as appropriate. and modified where necessarv to take into account local
operating conditions.
4.13 The translation of the successes of the twinning effort into improvements in internal
capabilities has been underpinned by a wide-ranging and sustained formal training input,
designed and initiated in the first instance by the twinning agency, with PGN assuming ultimate
responsibility for sustaining policy and implementing a continuing programrne.
4.14 World Bank funds have supported 65 staff undertaking advanced technical and management
training overseas, and within Indonesia over 500 PGN technical and professional staff, and 1000
contractors and customers have been involved in training during the life of the project.
4. 15 Training in new technology has been supported by the implementation of certification
schemes for operatives, supervisors and inspectors where appropriate.
4.16 The institutional development in terms of technology transfer. training and the development
of standards has however largely been internal within PGN. In many respects. PGN are therefore
now an industry leader in certain activities, particularly in distribution and marketing, utilisation
practices.
Financial aspects
4.17 Volumetric sales growth as a result of the project has surpassed expectations and at the same
time slightly higher margins have been achieved to those anticipated in the SAR. Staff numbers
have been held down during the project (roughly in line with SAR assumptions), and operating
costs have been further restrained by other efficiency measures and achievements (eg.
computerisation, improved management/control, reductions in gas losses etc.). As a result, PGN's
rate of return on net fixed assets (a key performance indicator identified in the SAR) has
consistently exceeded target2.
6



4.18 Details of sales turnover and ROR throughout the project, and in comparison to the original
SAR targets. are given in Table 4. The growth in post-tax profits is also shown.
4.19 Actual project costs and finance sources are shown against SAR estimates in Tables 1 and 2.
4.20 The Loan Agreement contained financial covenants regarding audit procedures and
reporting requirements, all of which have been satisfied.
5. Implementation
Market development
5.1 PGN's overall achievement of the fundamnental objective of expanding its sales of natural gas
(and the concomitant displacement of liquid fuels) has significantly exceeded expectations (see
Table 3). This has been achieved by targeting the larger industrial loads. primarily in the
industrial conurbations in the environs of the capital, Jakarta. The rates of penetration in each
sector have been governed by the relative marketing advantages which natural gas has vis a vis
the existing fuel option(s), and the rate at which PGN has been able to manage network
expansion and get gas to the potential customer.
5.2 In competition with LPG, and to a lesser extent diesel fuels, natural gas has enjoyed a clear
price advantage.In more marginal sectors, eg in competition with fuel oils, it is increasingly
necessary to exploit its other marketing advantages (eg. convenience of supply, the release of
capital and production space, customer cash flow considerations, and in many cases enhanced
product quality due to superior combustion characteristics).
5.3 PGN has well exploited this marketing environment, and clearly targeted the industrial and
commercial sectors in its approach throughout the project. This is reflected in the fact that
volumetric sales have consistently led construction activity and the growth in customer numbers,
when compared to the projections in the SAR. PGN has therefore achieved expected sales levels
from a somewhat smaller customer base than originally thought necessary.
5.4 However initial market response was poor, but the marketing effort gradually promoted
interest and awareness, to the extent that all operating units now have long lists of potential
customers, and can select and prioritise customer attachment. At the time of project completion,
PGN had over 130 potential industrial customers (with an aggregate demand of over 60 mrmscfd)
committed to a future supply by memoranda of understanding. This is a high priority group, all
located in close proximity to the existing infrastructure, and there are an additional 550 (with a
further potential demand of 150 mmscfd) whose supply would require a degree of network
extension.
2     The SAR required PGN to achieve a rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in excess
of 10% wef FY89, although this was revised to 4% in FY91-93, 8% in FY94 and 10%
thereafter under the subsequent Loan 3209
7



5.5 Generally, PGN's development of the market has been governed by supply issues, and gas
availability has effectively constrained the potential extent of development. PGN is completely
reliant on gas allocation by Pertamina, the state oil company. The provision of adequate supplies
for the implementation of the project and the achievement of its initial objectives was a condition
of loan effectiveness however, and underwritten by GOI. It was in the event achieved, although
not without some difficulties. In 1989, a reduction in the transfer price was negotiated in view of
Pertamina's inability to meet contractual supply requirements, and more recently protracted
negotiations on an additional 24 mmscfd of supplies to the Jakarta and Bogor areas (over and
above the quantities originallv contracted for the project) delayed final procurement and
construction under the project.
5.6 Satisfactory resolution of the gas supply issue is critical to PGN's success in its future
development.
Distribution system design and development
5.7 Satisfying the anticipated load growth (primarily in the Jakarta/Bogor area) entailed the
design of major extensions and developments of the distribution system in place at project
commencement, which at that time supplied around 4.5 mmscfd. The nominal design capacity of
the extended sytem was necessarily based initially on the increased supplies committed to PGN
by the State Oil and Gas authority (Pertamina) as a condition of loan effectiveness, raising the
planned total availability to PGN in Jakarta/Bogor to 49 mmscfd by the time of loan completion.
5.8 The design of a gas distribution system is an iterative process however, and its capacity is
dependent on many design variables and assumptions, and particularly on the magnitude and
location of predicted demands with respect to the position of the system inputs. For example,
generally, the closer that the loads on the system are to the inputs, then the higher the system
capacity as there are less losses due to friction.
5.9 Furthermore, the complexity of these relationships increases greatly with the degree of
integration of the system and with the number of inputs and demands. The Jakarta/Bogor system
was originally designed with five inputs and several hundred individual loads, and therefore
accurate assessment of its initial design capacity was very subjective, and dependent on many
assumptions, particularly regarding the possible patterns of load distribution around the network.
5.10 Nevertheless, on the information available at the time, the nominal design capacity was
estimated as sufficient to cater for the committed availability, ie. 49 mmscfd, with the potential
for future uprating by the order of 25% (ie. to 61 mmscfd), if additional load growth was
favourably located.
5.1 1 With any design, however, it is inevitable that subsequent system developments will deviate
from plan as assumptions may become invalid, fuel prices may change or new markets emerge.
The development must therefore be dynamic and react to changes in the marketing environment,
and the design continually reassessed in the light of the size and location of the loads actually
secured, and the ongoing revisions to estimates of further potential.
8



5.12 This process was fundamental in the development of the PGN JakartalBogor system, and
design capacity was subsequently increased even further in some instances by the inclusion of
strategic reinforcements of the network, with the effect of achieving substantial increases in
capacity at relatively low marginal costs. This continual review and improvement to design and
reaction to the marketing environment is particularly critical in developing networks from a
relativelv small base to supply markets with high growth potentials. It is imperative in these
situations that design capacity leads the marketing effort to enable attractive new loads to be
connected at minimal marginal capital costs and without unnecessary delay.
5.13 As a result of this dynamic design and development process, the PGN Jakarta/Bogor system
was already supplying peak flows of over 80 mmscfd at the time of loan closure, and had an
ultimate capacity at that time estimated in the region of 130 mmscfd. (The network
reinforcements necessary to achieve these increases in capacity were largely funded from an
agreed re-allocation of USS 9m from the customer conversion fund).
5.14 Additionally there is now the potential to increase system capacity by a further 100 mmscfd
by installing one additional input facility, upsizing another, and carrying out some relatively
minor pipeline reinforcements. The marginal capital cost of this work is estimated at US$ 2m.
5.15 The increases in system design capacity which have been achieved have been mainly as a
result of upsizing certain pipelines and/or operating them at higher pressures than proposed in the
original design, and by focusing on fewer but larger customer loads. The total cost of the
installed system has, however, been contained broadly in line with the original design estimates.
5.16 Rehabilitation of existing leakage prone systems has been undertaken in tandem, but only
where economically justified and the sections where rehabilitation or replacement was
inappropriate have been taken out of service and the customers are now being supplied with
LPG.
5.17 As a result of this selective approach to rehabilitation, and the successful marketing effort
enabling tight targeting of the larger potential customers (see para 4.3), total construction (in
installed kin) as a result of the project is therefore slightly below the original SAR estimate. Unit
costs are somewhat higher however, due to changes in project scope requiring additional high
pressure and/or larger diameter lines.
5.18 Development of the PGN distribution systems was carried out using sound planning and
design principles using standards applicable both in the USA and the United Kingdom, and
sophisticated network analysis techniques were introduced for system design.
5.19 Optimising design and the selection of new pipeline materials such as medium density
polyethylene has reduced the costs of urban distribution and enabled PGN to continue a policy of
expanding supplies to household markets.
9



Procurement
5.20 Procurement has been a key factor throughout the life of the project, and has to a large
extent dictated disbursement and overall project cash flow. Inevitable organisational and
administrative difficulties in PGN embracing relatively complex procurement procedures to
which it had no previous exposure were addressed early in the implementation phase, although
procurement throughout the life of the project has also generally been impeded by the additional
administrative requirements of GOI, both per se, and those imposed on PGN.
5.21 Internal procurement processes have been significantly streamlined during the life of the
project however by a number of measures initiated by PGN and the twinning agency, principally
the establishment of a specialist functional division with a reporting mandate direct to Board
level. This was effected in FY94 following discussion with the Bank, with the following
objectives:
(a) to allocate management responsibility for procurement to a specialist divisional head,
reporting directly to the Director of Engineering
(b) to dedicate staff to the division and train them in procurement procedures and activities
(c) to establish internal procedures and guidelines, including timescales for the preparation and
evaluation of tender documents
(d) to draw up and implement regular monitoring mechanisms to provide enhanced management
control and quickly identify potential difficulties
5.22 Nevertheless a number of delays were experienced in the procurement process at various
times during the period of the Loan, as a result of:
(a) a delay in appointing the twinning agency at start-up. When this issue was finally resolved
mobilisation of agency staff proceeded promptly, and allowed urgent work to commence on the
preparation of tender documents and procurement procedures
(b) a reduction in the planned gas supplies from Pertamina during the later stages of the project,
resulting in PGN adjusting their planning philosophy and only procuring materials and
equipment as and when the additional supplies became available
(c) internal organisational problems during the latter stages of the project. These issues were
addressed and resolved by the internal review of procurement activities referred to in para 5.21.
5.23 All equipment and materials procured under the project have now been received by PGN
and final disbursement is currently in progress. It is predicted that US$ 2m will remain
undisbursed from the Loan amount at closure at the end of November 1994.
10



Institutional development
5.24 As noted previously, project implementation has been well supported throughout by the
concurrent achievements in institutional development as a result of the technical assistance effort
and training. In particular, the transfer of planning and design, construction and utilisation skills
have been well synchronised with the implementation programme.
5.25 In tandem with the technical assistance effort, PGN has made sustained progress in systems
and management development. The penetration of information technology/systems is now
prevalent in all functions/operating units, and PGN is now beginning to deploy it at more
strategic levels. As a result of this, together with specific training/skills transfer and other
development initiatives, management capabilities have improved significantly in all business
areas during the life of the project. In particular, project management and control capabilities
have improved significantly and PGN is now well equipped to carry out feasibility studies and
investment appraisal. Certain management structure changes recommended in the SAR were
successfully implemented at the start of the project, providing for a better distribution of
responsibilities at Board level, a clearer definition of lines of control and placing emphasis on
strengthening the functional weaknesses which existed at that time.
Implementation delays
5.26 Loan closure was originally planned to take place in July 1992. Two further extensions have
been granted due to unforeseen implementation delays, principally:
(a) a start-up delay of around six months in finalising the twinning arrangement, which was a
condition of loan effectiveness
(b) a delay of around nine months in FY90 and FY91 in the implementation of expansion plans
due to gas supply restrictions by Pertamina
(c) delays in the negotiation of an additional 24 mmscfd of additional gas supplies over and
above the original contract quantities underwritten by Pertamina for the Jakarta and Bogor areas,
(which triggered the re-allocation of US$ 9 million from the customer conversion element of the
project to the system construction element, as noted in para 5.13: the overall delay in the
utilisation of these funds was in the order of twelve months).
5.27 As a result of these delays, closure was finally extended to July 1994.
5.28 Final disbursement is forecast at 95% of the SAR estimate, the principal reasons for the
shortfall being the procurement of certain materials and equipment where physical installation or
commissioning has been deferred, and variations in exchange rates affecting the prices of items
procured late in the project.
11



6. Sustainability
6.1 The prospects for sustainability are generally excellent. As a result of the project, PGN has
been transformed into a financially sound, profitable business, consistently achieving rates of
return on revalued net assets in excess of 20%. This underpins further organic growth, and there
remains vast market potential within existing supply areas, presently estimated by PGN in the
order of 20000 rnmcmlyear3, supplying general industry alone.
6.2 PGN distribution networks are now extensively integrated in the main supply centres, and
have the capacity to support continued growth into the medium termn. Growth will be maintained
and accelerated in the short term by the ongoing implementation of the Gas Utilisation Project
(Loan 3209-IND).
6.3 Operating capabilities and management skills are now relatively well developed, and more
than adequate to support further progressive growth. which no longer demands particular
technical imperatives/development.
6.4 The marketing environment has been significantly developed as a result of the project, and
PGN have successfully raised the awareness of the advantages of natural gas as a fuel in the main
industrial and commercial centres. Future market penetration issues will be related to strategy
and priorities rather than to developing potential.
6.5 PGN now have wider development plans with a more strategic focus, and are actively
looking at a number of potential transmission projects. These will carry significantly higher risks,
and so careful appraisal, design and implementation will be essential and further specific
institutional strengthening will be required in kev areas. PGN is also planning to take the first
steps towards privatisation later this year, and this will also require careful management.
6.6 Supply issues and the securing of long-term commitments are likely to remain the main
impediment to continued growth and the lack of statutory rights in this respect continues to be a
fundanental institutional obstacle for PGN. Despite a review of its operating charter in FY92,
PGN still has to negotiate supplies from Pertamina, who retain the responsibility for managing
exploration and production and for coordinating supply and demand for both domestic
requirements and LNG exports. This arrangement effectively creates a buffer between end
users/distributors (e.g. PGN) and the suppliers/producers (in the main production sharing
contractors to Pertarmina), and there is therefore little open dialogue across the supply chain.
6.7 In the Natural Gas Development Planning Study (Report 10293-IND, July 1992) the Bank
recommended that this issue be addressed by the establishment of a combined gas transrnission
and marketing entity within Indonesia, with complete responsibility for domestic transmission,
distribution and marketing activities. The study concluded that PGN was the agency best placed
to assume this role.
3     including greenfield potential, ie. yet undeveloped industrial zones
12



7. Future operations and development
7.1 PGN will consolidate the growth achieved as a result of the project and continue expansion
as a direct result of the ongoing Gas Utilisation Project (Loan 3209-IND), and in other supply
areas generally as gas supplies become available and internal resources permit.
7.2 Expansion on a wider/more strategic scale is being planned following privatisation and by the
development of major transmission projects.
7.3 Institutional development is ongoing as a component of the Utilisation Project, although the
specific achievements within this project are considered sustainable in their own right.
7.4 PGN are seeking to establish themselves as the principal domestic gas supply and marketing
agency in Indonesia, and are taking appropriate steps to raise their corporate profile within the
industry structure and government departments.
7.5 Privatisation plans are well developed, and will increase growth capabilities by the
introduction of additional capital and improving access to development funding through more
sophisticated financial instruments. Further institutional development can also be expected as a
result of equity being offered to private sector/overseas investors.
7.6 The above objectives are also reflected in PGN's medium-term corporate planning/strategy,
and specifically in the following elements:
(a) to complete the successful implementation of the current Gas Utilisation Project by achieving
the target levels of gas sales within the specified financial parameters and satisfying all attached
covenants
(b) to undertake the successful privatisation of the company
(c) to recruit suitable business partner(s), i.e. from experienced overseas utilities, for joint venture
or equity participation in new project developments and/or to support privatisation
(d) to develop options for an appropriate corporate structure in the light of future development
plans, e.g. by:
-establishing subsidiary distribution and transmission companies
-establishing a subsidiary transmission company with the holding company retaining
responsibility for distribution
-retaining centralised operations and control within a single company structure, but
expanding the scope by recruiting equity/joint venture partners
13



(e) to identify and select appropriate development projects and prepare investment plans
(f) to maintain organic growth by continually developing and extending the existing distribution
networks. as gas availability permits
(g) to maintain progress in human resource development
8. Conclusions
8.1 This project has initiated the first major steps towards the expansion of the role of
non-exportable natural gas in domestic energy consumption within Indonesia. It has clearly
demonstrated that domestic gas markets can be effectively developed in parallel with the
upgrading of indigenous expertise.
8.2 The project has been highly successful from PGN's perspective and has been a cornerstone in
the commercial turnround of the company, and the profitable growth which has been achieved
during its lifetime. This has provided a secure basis on which PGN can now confidently plan
future development and expansion. The project has also made a significant and lasting
contribution to the implementation of GOI energy strategy, and has had positive environmental
benefits.
8.3 There is still tremendous potential for further increasing the domestic utilisation of natural
gas in Indonesia, and the achievements of this project provide a firm platform for new
development initiatives. The implementation experience gained will be of value in the design and
operation of future projects and developments.
8.4 In particular, the Bank's Natural Gas Development Planning Study (Report 10293-[ND) has
formulated a medium-term (1992-2002) investment plan to promote a further four-fold increase
(base case projections) in gas utilisation in domestic energy consumption. This is achievable
provided:
(a) an enabling environment is established promoting private sector investment, the development
of a regulatory framework and energy pricing reforrn, and
(b) an organisation is created to spearhead this development. PGN is now well placed to
undertake this role.
14



MAP SECTION






IrI                     I           I           I
SUMA TFRA          108'         110'        I2'        114 4
JAKARTA
MANDURA
-80                      JA W4 AD                                                     _-~                       
106'       108'           1         12          1 It4(
1120                            =                          _ _XCnke                                                              JAKARTA i
I N D O N E S I A                        epn                                                          
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT                                                                                                                          )                   , 
JAKARTA GAS DISTRIBUTION                                                        -                                                        
PROJECT AREAS                                                                                           /--                               
Planned and Built/ 
under Pro ect-                       Pertan, ,c, Trunk Lines                                     \                                   
-   Supply mAumls                   0       Requ ator Stofionis                                                                                       |
[1rf  D,sir a,ut oni Net-ovlk                    Conmrn    u  cirad Indnstrial Areas
0     Rkeg-  to,r stat,ons                    C ty Bou.ndary                                                                                          magis
R-Rive s                    r                              3  4
Existing beFore the Project      ,                                                          .
c                                                     S      NS-t ornu  Capros                                  Fh                                                               'o    .01, 1 F R.
S , p L , Ma, r,,                                                                                             Th,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coo    0,.g'el~hcc.llt..I,,t,~,oy    00
;   5 erOD w ts1C]1rls                                                                                                        The boulldorle. colols de       oos onci or+  other Intczlnlor~~~~~~~~~~~~h"-  "' '",  ""'I"""  -   Th   W-11R-kC>
G-P  ." "'d""'t - Ih,  j  t   ~       ~      ~      j
W






IBRD 26564
INDONESIA
PHiLIPPINES                              GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
-  BRUN~~~~~~~~~y~~~       6                              /                            EEMAA~~~~~~~~~~ C1ESES SEMWE BA PG.
MALAYSIA                                                         >'y0~                                                                                      PRCN,NCE HEADGUMRTEBS
/                /         U                                                                            PE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSNCE SOUNQARJES
2                                                               MALAYSIA                                                                                              EIMCM   ONAA
NAA.OO                                       A ~       ~ ~~~~~ L     N                                                                                                U77       NORTH PACWFIC OCEAN
AK 'ACA - --                                                                                    --.-
SA-.ATR SEA-IA                                                                                                                                                                                      -z2
SLAER  .or-I.AB5AAg
-CEH                                            SAAS3
S    "T AAtIR
A__AANA  71-R~j~
KA."Is,TAANU50-
A  S.4AWES S&AIAAO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ASRAI
4  SALAAES. IENQCAAA  15  AA,,SAIS,*,.  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNURY19~






IBRD 26565
KEC SAWANGAN
(.'    wys              ~~KEC CILEUNGSI
KEC SOJONG CEDE
0'   X                 /   v                                   ~~~~~~~~~I N D O N E S I A
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
BOGOR GAS DISTRIBUTION
PROJECT AREAS
V   BOGOR \    /               /  /    KEC CITEUREUP
Planned and Built under Project
Supp y   Ao nrs
L-T:,  Dstrnbut or) Net-1,L
0      Regulator Stat orn
Existing betare the Pro ect
Y F  zF  0  Supply Mains
......rPertamina Trunk Lines
KEC CIOMAS
0      Regulator Stations
ComrTercial and industr al Areas
---Rivers
0     National Capital
\  SUJMATEIXA   to08        110r       112'      1t4'
\                                        . ~~~~~~~~       ~       ~      ~        ~       ~~~~~--- ARTA    O
otd--h-oio  hor                                                     KEC CIAWI                        .s .      80GORMADR
.th.boond- - :- ti- , lih-MANDURA
on thi. map do not
Th. World  Bank Groupt'                                                                                                       W A                          8A
ony ijudg,n.-t on *h-                 I V.
.rtotrr. of any t rritory.                           \ " x                   S      S                  INDIAN OCEAN
or ao.ptanc. of such                                  \KILOMETERS                                        16        08           1         12         I4 
bo-huKILOMETERS                                                                          1060       108'         10I D'    11Y2'       114I
JANUARY 1995






100 ti        105S      O Bulu Cina                                                                                 a
-5     ~       MALAYSIA                                                                                                       Percut
KUALA LUMPUR
a Seruai
x.r    SINGAPORE                                 Medan Labuhan              L
Payo Pasir                             OS Meroh
Simipong Kantor
50                                                                                                                                                        I N D O  N E S I A
Soentiso            GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
0                               0~~~ Kelumpang
Wompuo  Tandem                                               e                                                                            MEDAN GAS DISTRIBUTION
OKelombwr Lima                        oMedan Deli                                        PROJECT   AREAS
Plonned and Built under Project
-        Supply Mains
0 Timbong Longkat[Glugur                                                          Distribution Networks
TbnLno   Medan Timur                                        o     Regulator Networks
oBinjoi                                                     Medan Barot             t                                                                       Existing bellore the Project:
6; MEDAN                     _                              Supply Mains
Medoin Sunggo5 |o                                                                                             Regulator Stations
e acl/n  a B                             e e d o n     Deno                                     Commercial and Industrial Areas
O Sei K rio                              <     _        <                                      0 Amplas                        Rivers
*  National Capitals
International Boundories
O Sei Menciori                                      Medon Johok
0                              ~~~~~~~~~~0   1  2   3   4   5
Tl_"lvnoon, c-jors.                                                                                                             Taniung MTorawa                           __________
r0**~*~0   *i0w~'                                                                                                                                                          KILOMETERS
_h   Wor    8.,    oo-,0
-<  o      uo  vl 
-r   oo -0
-c ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
00.



