Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AOv. ws '   -zy
Report No. P-4287-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$34 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
April 16, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00              =        Rp 1,100
Rp l,000             -        US$0.91
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                  =       0.159 cubic meters (cu.m.)
1 standard cubic foot (cf)      =       0.028 cu.m
kWh                             =       kilowatt hours
mcf                             =       thousand standard cubic feet
MW                              =       megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
tcf                             =       trillion standard cubic feet
tpy                             =       metric ton per year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAKOREN                         National Energy Coordinating Board
BAPPENAS                        National Development Planning Board
GOI                             Government of Indonesia
ICB                             International Competitive Bidding
LNG                             Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG                             Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MICAS                           Directorate General of Oil and Natural
Gas, Ministry of Mines and Energy
OPEC                            Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries
PGN                             Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (National
Gas Company)
PLN                             Perusahaan Umum Listrick Negara
(National Electricity Company)
REPELITA                        National Five-Year Development Plan
(Repelita I, 1969-74; Repelita II,
1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84;
Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita V,
1989-94)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Harch 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Government of Indonesia (GOI)
Beneficiary:    Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (PGN)
Amount:         US$34.0 million equivalent
Lending Terms:  Repayable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:        The Government would onLend US$32.6 million of the proceeds of
the loan to PGN at a rate of at least 12Z per annum.
Repayment of funds for gas distribution and training (US$23.1
million) would take place over 15 years, including a grace
period of five years; repayment of funds for customer
conversion (US$9.5 million) would take place over eight years,
including a grace period of five years. US$1.4 million would
be used by the Government for additional studies. GOI would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Project
Description:  The principal objective of the project would be to accelerate
the utilization of natural gas in high-value uses in the
domestic market. This would be achieved by developing the
infrastructure needed to distribute gas to industrial and
commercial consumers currently using liquid fuels as a source
of energy, and by building up the institutional capability of
PGN to actively market and distribute gas. Support would also
be provided to facilitate the conversion of industrial
consumers from liquid fuels to natural gas, and to assist GOI
in setting appropriate fuel prices so as to encourage the
optimal utilization of gas.
The project would consist of: design and construction of major
extensions to the existing natural gas distribution networks
in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan, including new supply lines, local
distribution pipelines, regulator stations and customer
metering stations; rehabilitation of PGN's existing gas dis-
tribution networks, which are unsafe; and establishment of a
program to assist industrial users in plant conversion for
natural gas use. A centerpiece of the project would be the
"twinning" of PGN with an established gas utility to develop
PGN's managerial and technical expertise through close collab-
oration with a similar, more experienced, operating entity.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:          The potential risks faced by the project fall into four cate-
gories: (i) timeliness of gas supply, (ii) delays in market
development, (iii) declining fuel values, and (iv) shortfalls
in institutional capability to implement the project. These
risks have been recognized from the beginning, and, as far as
possible, precaptions to minimize them have been built into
the project design. The substantial'benefits which can be de-
rived from the project far outweigh these risks.
Estimated Costs:                              Local      Foreign     Total
…-- (US$ miLlion)
Distribution Systems
Jakarta                            10.4        9.7        20.1
Bogor                              2.6         2.2         4.8
Medan                               2.6        2.3          4.9
Upgrading of networks
in other cities                  0.8         1.5         2.3
Sub-total                     16.4        15.7        32.1
Technical Assistance                     -         3.0          3.0
Training                                 -         0.5          0.5
Equipment                                -         1.5          1.5
Customer Conversion                     2.6       13.8         16.4
LPG and Energy Pricing Studies           -          1.2         1.2
Taxes and Duties                       11.9          -         11.9
Base Cost                          30.9       35.7         66.6
Physical Contingencies                  3.1        3.6          6.7
Price Contingencies                     5.4        7.3         12.7
Total Project Cost                 39.4       46.6         86.0
Financing Plan:                               Local      Foreign     Total
(US$ million) ---…--
IBRD                                              34.0         34.0
Bilateral Assistance                     -         3.8          3.8
PGN Internal Cash Generatign            6.5          -          6.5
GOI Equity Contributions               18.3          -         18.3
Commercial Loans                       10.4          -         10.4
Consumers                               4.2        8.8         13.0
Total                              39.4       46.6         86.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
… ------------(US$  miillIT'
Annual               4.8     9.5      8.8     5.8      3.4     1.7
Cummulative          4.8    14.3    23.1    28.9    32.3    34.0



- iii -
Economic Rate of Return: About 312.
Appraisal Report: No. 5942-IND, dated April 11, 1986.
Maps: IBRD No. 19437
19438
19439
19440



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$34.0 million to help
finance the Gas Distribution Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government of Indonesia (GOI) would onlend a portion of the proceeds of the
loan (US$32.6 million) to Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (PGN), the national gas
company, at an interest rate of at least 12Z p.a. Repayment of funds for gas
distribution and training (US$23.1 million) would take place over 15 years,
including 5 years grace; repayment of funds for customer conversion (US$9.5
million) would take place over 8 years, including 5 years grace. The
Government of Indonesia would bear the foreign exchange and interest risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
2.        An economic report, entitled "Indonesia:  Policies for Growth and
Employment" (No. 5597-IND, dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 30, 1985. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archjpelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about 2 mil-
lion km'. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about 2.2Z
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP V r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Central and
West Java Irrigation Development Project (No. P-4205-IND), circulated
under cover of R85-360 dated December 31, 1985, and approved by the
Executive Directors on January 23, 1986.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (COI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60Z of Central Government receipts by 1980181 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14Z
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a falL in real per capita
incomes. In response, the government acted promptly to ensure that the coun-
try's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis for
longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public reve-
nues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, inclading the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and



- 3 -
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approvaL proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an esti-
mated 4.7% in 1983 and 6.5% in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4%
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evideut in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal dis-
cipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12X in 1983 and
9% in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devalua-
tion and the petroleum price adjustments. Faced with the prospect of even
lower oil prices in the year ahead, the Governmenc recently announced an
austere budget for 1986/87. In particular, total expenditure is projected to
fall by 7% (compared to budgeted levels in 1985/86), with a 22% reduction in
the development budget.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5Z p.a. is pro-
bably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and pov-
erty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth
rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of
the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the
economy will require continued action in three key policy areas: management
of the public investment program (and improvements in the regul.tory/policy
environment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade
regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetarv con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval



-4-
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generalLy, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable pro-
vided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist mea-
sures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and exchange
rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of export promo-
tion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready access to
finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing canacity.
However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for comprehen-
sive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regimt has histori-
cally been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduction in
the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions --
including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring higher
local content in production -- have served to promote some potentially costly
and uneconomic investments which could prove counter productive to the export
drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
in-rease in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a capi-
tal market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas) and
selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with increased
bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62Z of its population, but only 7X of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance vf the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important prGcesses at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these



- 5 -
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom some 675,000 were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid econc,ic developmen,t has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment ouLlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace or mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.



- 6 -
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a sub-
stantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be neces-
sary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system. In
the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably at
the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in quality
will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemen-
ted by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in
indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be maintained. By
1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population had access to safe
water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for
1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks.  The ongoing program of economic refo.ms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the Gov-
ernment's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Inconesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20Z. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio. based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$896.49 million (less cancellations) and 107 Bank Loans amounting to
US$8,149.54 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. .nnex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstandinS at the end of 1983 was
13.1%, and the Bank's share of debt service 10.3%, compared with 13.3% and
7.9%, respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia
was made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness follow-
ing the commodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmi-
gration) for employment, food security and exports, over one third of Bank
Group-assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, Loans and
credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical
assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the Bank's economic work, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and emp'oyment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
3/   SubstantialLy unchanged from the President's Report on the Central and
West Java Provincial Irrigation Project (No. P-4205-IND), circulated
under cover of R85-360 dated December 31, 1985, and approved by the
Executive Directors on January 23, 1986.



- 8 -
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy, mobi-
lize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent expendi-
tures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentraEing on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20% of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       There has been an improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio - from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 17Z in FY85. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for-simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
4/ The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction
21.       Indonesia is a country richly endowed with diversified energy
resources. While virtually all of its energy requirements are met from two
sources -- indigenous oil, which is also a major source of foreign exchange,
and biomass -- the energy resource base of the country also includes natural
gas, which is exported in large volumes as LNG (liquefied natural gas), coal,
hydroelectric power and geothermal energy, all in substantial quantities.
Indonesia has so far made relatively little use of its non-oil energy
resources to meet domestic needs, and the modern sectors of the economy are
essentially geared towards the consumption of oil products, while the rural
economy is still heavily dependent on biomass fuels. However, the changing
international environment over the last decade has prompted the Government of
Indonesia to reconsider the use and allocation of its vast energy resources
and, more generally, the role energy should play in the economic development
process.
22.       The optimum development of Indonesia's energy resources calls for
the exploitation of a broader range of energy sources and a reduction in the
preponderant role of oil products in the economy. Against this background and
in the interest of mitigating the decline in oil export revenues that has
taken place in recent years, the Government has made energy conservation and
diversification two of its major objectives. Large amounts of funds are being
allocated to coal and hydroelectric power development. However, despite the
potentially large economic benefits that could be derived from expanded gas
consumption, progress has been slow in this area.



- 10 -
Primary Energy Resource Development
23.       Much of the development of Indonesia's energy resources reflects its
singular geographic setting -- an archipelago consisting of five main islands
and Literally thousands of smaller ones. The spatial dispersion of the
centers of economic activity and energy resources imposes severe limits on the
use of the country's energy potential and explains much of its past reliance
on oil. The need for major infrastructure investments remains an obstacle to
the development of coal and natural gas. The export of natural gas as LNG has
been a striking exception to this general picture, benefitting from a ready
market -- Japan -- and from the Government's ability to work out suitable
arrangements with the oil industry to take advantage of this unparalleled
opportunity.
24.       Oil.  Oil dominates the Indonesian economy, accounting for about 80X
of commercial energy consumption and 70% of export earnings as well as of
Government revenues. Cumulative production as of January 1983 was about 10
billion barrels. Over the past five years, oil production has declined from
about 1.6 million barrels per day (bbl/d) in 1978 to 1.3 million bbl/d in 1984
in response to changing world market conditions and lower OPEC quotas.
Estimates of oil reserves are inevitably subject to large uncertainties.
Remaining proven oil reserves are reported to be about five billion barrels,
with the possibility of adding another seven billion barrels from existing and
new discoveries by the year 2000. These reserves could support a moderate
growth in annual production over the next decade (current production capacity
is estimated at 1.6 million bbl/d). However, without unexpected new finds,
production will then start to tail off. This long-term production constraint,
together with continuing uncertainty in world market conditions, underscores
the importance of diversifying Indonesia's primary energy sources. Explor-
ation activity has recently shown a downturn following the country's most
active period from 1980 to 1983. While the slowdown in the interest of oil
companies may, to a large extent, reflect world-wide trends, a revision of
incentives provided to industry and the pace at which new acreage is being
offered is probably needed if Indonesia is to increase or maintain its pro-
duction potential.
25.       Natural Gas.  Indonesia has considerable gas resources with recover-
able reserves estimated at about 80 trillion standard cubic feet (tcf).
Natural gas was originally produced in Indonesia as associated gas in the
production of crude oil. Several large-scale gas fields were discovered
during the seventies and now Indonesia has reserves of gas comparable to its
oil reserves. The bulk of this gas is non-associated and consequently can be
developed independently of the level of oil production.
26.       Coal.  Indonesia's coal reserves are believed to be in excess of 10
billion tons, located primarily in west and south Sumatra and Kalimantan.
While current production of about 450,000 tons per year (tpy) is still well
below the peak levels achieved in the 1940s (2 million tpy), major projects
have been undertaken in Sumatra to increase production. In addition, in 1981,
the Government entered into a number of production-sharing agreements with
private foreign and Indonesian joint-venture companies for exploration and
exploitation of the Kalimantan coal reserves. Exploration is now in progress.



- 11 -
27.       Hydroelectricity.  Indonesia's total hydroelectric resources are
large, but development is limited by their geographic distribution relative
to demand. The greatest hydropower potential (over 35Z) is in Irian Jaya
where electricity demand is less than one percent of total domestic demand.
On the other hand, less than 102 of the total potential is in Java, which
accounts for 80Z of the current electricity demand. Existing hydroelectric
installations have an aggregate capacity of about 1,300 MW. Schemes with an
additional combined generating capacity of about 1,500 MW are currently under
construction.
28.       Geothermal Energy.  Surface manifestations of geothermal energy are
found on all islands except Kalimantan, but only a few sites have been inves-
tigated and only one, Kamojang in west Java, has been developed. It is
believed that potential reserves may approach 10,000 MW. Overall, however,
utilization of geothermal energy is limited in relation to this potential. To
accelerate the pace of development, the Government has announced its intention
to lease other sites to international investors, but the response appears to
be limited. A major impediment to geothermal development has been the lack of
a clear policy in setting the transfer price of geothermal steam to the power
utility. There is a need for the Government to revise its pricing formula and
work out the implications of this revised formula on the package of incentives
offered to industry for geothermal exploration and development.
29.       Biomass.  Annual availability of biomass -- mostly by-products or
wastes from agriculture and forestry -- is estimated at about 17 million tons.
Approximately 80% of rural households depend on firewood and biomass as
cooking fuels. However, deforestation has become an acute problem in Java.
Development of biomass potential for increased domestic consumption will
require a major organizational effort at the grassroots level to increase
planting of fast-growing bush species on waste land, develop systpmatic col-
lection of agricultural wastes, construct facilities for energy conversion,
and develop a distribution network.
Power
30.       A key Government objective is to improve and expand the supply and
distribution of electricity in rural and urban areas. The state electricity
company (PLN) has about 3,300 MW of installed capacity and operates over
8,000 km of transmission lines and about 35,000 km of distribution lines, the
bulk of which are in Java. In addition, large captive generation units,
accounting for about 40% of total capacity, have been developed over time to
supplement the shortage of generating capacity in the public system.
Indonesia's electricity consumption (about 140 kWh per capita) is low in
relation to its income level and plans have been made for a rapid increase in
generation capacity. About half of public investment in the energy sector is
now directed to the electricity subsector.
Energy Pricing
31.       Until recently, subsidized petroleum product prices impeded
efficient resource use in the economy. The Bank, through its economic and
sector work, has had a continuous dialogue with the Government on energy



- 12 -
pricing issues and has highlighted the consequences of Government pricing
policy. In 1983 the Bank prepared a study entitled "Indonesia - Selected
Issues of Energy Pricing Policy" (Report No. 4285-IND) to analyze the policy
options available to the Government and their implications. Over the last
three years, GOI has taken bold steps to increase the domestic price of
petroleum fuels and eliminate subsidies. As a result, fuel prices are at or
above international levels with the exception of kerosene, which is still
subsidized for social reasons. Electricity tariffs were increased by over
200X on average between 1981 and 1984 and are now comparable to those
prevailing in the region and within 10-15% of estimated long-run marginal
costs. The pricing of natural gas is discussed in paragraph 37.
The Natural Gas Subsector
32.       Indonesia has considerable gas resources, with estimated recoverable
reserves of about 80 tcf. The Government has so far given priority to the use
of gas for LNG export projects and, in the case of associated gas, for oil
field maintenance to the extent possible. Other important uses of gas are in
steel and fertilizer production. In view of the continuation of gas disco-
veries but limited additional opportunities for export of LNG, the Government
is presently reviewing this general policy. To this end it has commissioned,
with IDA assistance, three studies intended to provide guidance in designing
an appropriate investment strategy and policy framework for the gas sector:
(i) a Gas Utilization Study to assess, in a long-term perspective, the poten-
tial for expanded use of natural gas domestically; (ii) a City Gas Distribu-
tion Study to assess the potential for expanded gas distribution to small and
medium industries, commercial entities and households in urban areas; and
{iii) an LPG Feasibility Study to evaluate the economic viability of distri-
buting LPG more widely for domestic uses. The first two of these studies have
been completed and the Government is now reviewing the results. This process
is expected to lead to major modifications in the gas sector development
strategy, which should in the future give priority to gas utilization in the
power, industrial and commercial sectors as a substitute for liquid fuels (see
para. 39 below).
33.       Reserves.  The largest gas reserves have been discovered in the
Badak region in east Kalimantan (17 tcf), the Arun region in north Sumatra
(14 tcf) and the Natuna offshore area in the South China Sea (40 tcf). The
world's two largest operational LNG projects are at Badak, operated by Huffco,
and at Arun, operated by Mobil. Other regions with major proven gas reserves
are south Sumatra (6 tcf) and west Java (2 tcf).
34.       Gas Utilization.  Industrial use of natural gas has grown steadily
over time but is still very low relative to its economic potential. The first
major industrial use was as feedstock for urea production at the Pusri ferti-
lizer plant in south Sumatra in 1963. In 1970, LPG and carbon black plants
were constructed in Rantau, north Sumatra. With the commencement of LNG
production in Badak (1977) and Arun (1978), consumption of natural gas grew
rapidly. Total production reached 1.2 tcf in 1983, of which field use (gas
lift and gas injection) accounted for 22%, LNG production for 43Z, and flared
gas for 12%. The remaining 23% is used domestically by various industrial
users (including gas used as fuel gas), and city distribution systems.



- 13 -
35.       The Government's attention has so far been mainly drawn by the
prospects for LNG export. It has been extremely successful in this area,
having developed with the assistance of international oil companies the
largest LNG projects in the world and, in doing so, pioneered new forms
of contracts with the oil companies. However, the potential for further
expansion of LNC exports (beyond projects already planned) appears limited
and, in any case, well below the country's gas production potential, thus
leaving a substantial surplus production capacity available for the domestic
market. Actually, the recent Gas Utilization Study indicates that many
domestic applications, such as natural gas used as fuel for power generation
and in industry where gas substitutes directly for liquid fuels, would likely
yield greater economic benefits to the country than LNG export. These con-
clusions have added impetus to the Government's decision to review its gas
policy with a view to giving natural gas a major role in its energy diversifi-
cation strategy. Some of these recommendations, such as accelerating the
development of gas reserves in Java and some areas of Sumatra to convert power
stations and city gas systems (including local industries) from liquid fuels
to natural gas, should be given high priority. Recommendations on longer-term
investments to ensure long-term supplies, such as the construction of a
transmission system linking Java to a gas surplus area (e.g., Kalimantan),
will require, because of their magnitude, close review and further study.
36.       Institutions in the Gas Sector.  The principal agency responsible
for the development and implementation of Government policies in the gas
sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy, which was established in 1978 to
coordinate and supervise the activities of the public and quasi-public
enterprises operating in the sector. These include Pertamina, which has
overall responsibility for the development of oil, gas and geothermal energy,
and Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (PGN), which is responsible for gas distribu-
tion, other than to very large consumers which are supplied directly by
Pertamina. Coordination of energy policy is the responsibility of an inter-
ministerial body, the National Energy Coordinating Board (BAKOREN). PGN is a
public corporation first established in 1958, after the nationalization of
N.V. OGEM, a gas supply company of Dutch ownership. PGN is supplied with
natural gas by Pertamina, and distributes natural gas in Jakarta, Bogor, Medan
and Cirebon. Manufactured gas is also distributed by PCN in Bandung,
Semarang, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang, and Medan. Large parts of PGN's pipeline
networks are corroded and in general disrepair, with gas losses averaging
about 30% of sales volume, which affects both the safety of the network and
operating results. The small scale of its operations, predominantly for the
household market, has also contributed to financial losses on PGN's past
operations, despite relatively high (50%) gross margins on sales.
37.       Natural Gas Pricing.  Gas tariffs in Indonesia vary according to
end-users and reflect the Government's development priorities (e.g., to
promote the production of steel and fertilizer), which may not be fully
consistent with sound economic principles based on the opportunity cost of gas
in each area; they are, in general, not designed to encourage gas production
for domestic use. Tariffs vary from US$.57/mcf for fertilizer (Pusri) and
US$.65/mcf for steel (Krakatau) to about US$3/mcf for power generation,
cement and city gas. Clearly, considerable review and eventual revision of
Government policies is in order in the area of pricing, since the setting of



- 14 -
proper price signals is essential to the success of the gas utilization
strategy being formulated by the Government. GOI is aware that an appropriate
pricing strategy should promote economic efficiency in the allocation of
natural gas across sectors and provide adequate incentives to the oil industry
to develop gas reserves for the domestic market. At the Government's request,
the proposed project will include an energy pricing policy study designed to
establish guiding principles for setting natural gas prices at the producer
and the consumer levels in relation to the price of alternative fuel sources
(i.e., petroleum products and coal). This study is expected to provide the
necessary background for a review of the complex issues involved and will form
the basis for subsequent dialogue between the Bank and the Government on
pricing matters. During the course of the project, PGN will also review its
own gas tariffs (by July 31, 1988), discuss the results of this review with
the Government and the Bank and make necessary changes, taking into account
the Government's and the Bank's comments.
Bank Role and Lending Strategy
38.       The Bank has a long-established involvement in the Indonesian power
subsector, with tourteen approved operations since 1969. The first comprehen-
sive involvement of the Bank in the energy sector began with the Energy
Assessment Report of 1981 (Report No. 3543-IND). This report aimed to
identify policy options, rank investment priorities, promote a framework for
technical assistance and advise GOI on the policy and institutional aspects of
the sector. The report confirmed earlier findings that alternative energy
sources could be developed economically and should be developed quickly to
replace oil consumed domestically in view of limited oil reserves and in order
to maintain potential oil exports. Major changes in sector policies have
since been introduced by GOI, particularly with regard to coal development
(especially for use in the power sector) and petroleum product pricing.
39.       The Bank has maintained a continuous dialogue with GOI on the issue
of gas utilization through the supervision of the three gas studies referred
to in paragraph 32. The results of these studies are now becoming available
and are being reviewed by GOI. The results of the gas utilization study
indicate that there is scope for gas development for domestic use which would
avoid further claims on oil and complement current coal investments. While a
comprehensive gas development plan would require further analysis (in
particular, a feasibility study of major pipeline projects designed to link
gas-surplus areas to key demand centers), a number of specific investments
have been identified which would yield quick economic benefits and help
Indonesia strengthen its e:tpertise in gas development, partly through the
channelling of the necessa&y technical assistance. The Gas Distribution
Project discussed in this report, which would be the first Bank operation in
the petroleum sector, is in support of such high priority investments. The
remaining issues in the gas sector are essentially to assess the long-term
potential for gas in the economy, in particular for power generation beyond
the conversion of the existing oil-based power plants and gas turbines; to
demonstrate the feasibility of specific gas development projects and formulate
an overall development strategy to meet this potential; and to establish
coherent investment and pricing policies in support of this strategy. The
proposed project would serve as a vehicle for further dialogue with the



- 15 -
Covernment on the broader sectoral issues as GOI develops a policy and
institutional framework for the development of the gas sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was appraised by a World Bank mission that
visited Indonesia in July 1985. A report entitled "Indonesia, Staff Appraisal
Report, Gas Distribution Project", No. 5942-IND, is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, March 24-28, 1986. The
Government of Indonesia delegation was led by Hr. Soedarno Martosewojo,
Director General for Oil and Natural Gas, Ministry of Mines and Energy.
Project Objectives
41.       The proposed project would be the first Bank operation in
Indonesia's gas sector. The main operational focus of the project would be on
strengthening Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (PGN), the existing gas utility,
which will be the entity ultimately responsible for distribution of natural
gas to private commercial and industrial consumers (while bulk users are
supplied directly by Pertamina). The project was conceived as a follow-up to
the City Gas Distribution Study (para. 32), which was carried out by Osaka Gas
Engineering Co., Ltd. The objectives of the project will be:
(a) to encourage the use of natural gas by small- and medium-sized
industries, thus ensuring the utilization of gas in a high-value
market, by constructing new gas distribution facilities;
(b) to replace and/or rehabilitate portions of PGN's existing gas
distribution networks, which are unsafe and subject to substantial
leakage;
Cc) to build up the managerial and technical capabilities of PGN to plan
and implement system expansion and operate its networks efficiently
and cost effectively;
(d) to establish replicable technological standards on which to base
future expansions of existing gas distribution networks, or the
creation of new ones, as natural gas becomes more widely available;
and
(e) to support GOI's efforts to review sector policies, particularly
with regard to energy pricing.
42.       PGN -- like many gas utilities around the world -- has experienced
the difficulties of supplying manufactured gas in competition with cheaper and
more flexible fuels, e.g., LPG and oil. Traditionally, PCN has been supplying
gas to a predominantly household market in the older parts of the cities.
With such a restricted domestic market, increasing production costs and little
prospects for Large industrial and commercial loads, inadequate attention has
been paid to the development and maintenance of the supply systems which, in



- 16 -
certain area-a, are in a state of total disrepair. Gas leakages from corroded
pipelines are widespread, resulting in gas losses equivalent to about 30Z
of sales volume. Conversion to natural gas can provide the much needed oppor-
tunities, impetus and means to reverse the decline in PGN's operational effi-
ciency. Efficient project implementation and development of PGN's planning
and operating capabilities will be promoted under the project by linking PGN
to an experienced foreign gas utility capable of providing assistance in key
areas. The project would thus include four components: (i) a gas distribution
component; (ii) technical assistance and training for PGN; (iii) a customer
conversion component; and (iv) associated studies to be carried out by the
Government. These components are described more fully below.
Project Components
43.       Gas Distribution Network (US$52.9 million).5'  The project will
support the detailed design and construction of extensions to PGN's gas dis-
tribution networks in Jakarta, Bogor, and Medan. Project works will include
new suppiy lines to industrial and commercial areas, and local distribution
within such areas. Specific items will include design services, construction
of distribution pipelines, regulator stations, service lines and meter sta-
tions for a core group of approximately 350 industrial and 800 large commer-
cial consumers, and installation of monitoring systems wherever economically
justified. The market for gas under the project is made up principally of
industrial and commercial entities which will substitute gas for fuel oil and
diesel, and to a lesser extent for LPG and kerosene. A small proportion of
demand is accounted for by domestic users, who will substitute natural gas for
bottled LPG. Total annual sales in the three cities covered by the project
are expected to reach 540 million cubic meters in PNG's fiscal year 1990/91.
44.       PGN, assisted by the twinning agency (see para. 45 below), will also
define subprojects in cities outside the main project areas (i.e., Cirebon,
Bandung, Semarang, Surabaya and Ujung Pandang), with a view to improving the
efficiency of the existing distribution networks in these cities and reducing
the currently substantial gas losses. To ensure the timely completion of this
component of the project, adequate technical information, together with econo-
mic and financial justification for subprojects outside the main areas, would
be submitted to the Bank for approval not later than December 31, 1987.
45.       Technical Assistance and Training (US$4.3 million).  The project
would involve the twinning of PGN with an established gas utility, which is
essential to ensure the successful implementation of the project and achieve
the institution-building objectives which provide the principal rationale for
Bank involvement. Through the secondment of a number of professional
personnel into selected parallel positions in PCN and the services of
specialized technical personnel on short-term assignment, as required, the
established-utility would provide assistance in detailed project design; back-
up support for day-to-day technical and commercial operations; assistance for
customer conversion; and assistance in the design and implementation of
5/   Cost figures in paras. 43-47 are inclusive of contingencies.



- 17 -
management systems required by a commercial gas utility, including operational
and maintenance standards, project cost monitoring, marketing, and management
information systems. Negotiations are currently underway with an experienced
gas utility and the related bilateral donor. The execution of a twinning
agreement acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
As a complement to the twinning arrangement, the project would also support a
small training program for PGN staff. Staff would be trained in areas such as
demand forecasting, system planning and design, project cost monitoring,
industrial gas utilization, and management control systems. PGN would prepare
and furnish to the Bank for approval a detailed training program by March 31,
1987, indicating the staff to be trained, areas of training, and training
location and timetable.
46.       Customer Conversion (US$27.4 million).  An important part of the
project relates to the conversion of customer energy equipment. To encourage
the early conversion of industries to gas and maximize project returns, PGN
would assist potential gas customers with necessary feasibility studies,
finance and implement equipment conversion, and i-sure and maintain the
related equipment during an initial operating period. Consumers would fully
repay PGN for the costs PGN has incurred on their behalf (including the cost
of capital, insurance, maintenance and administration) in installments paid
along with their regular gas bills over a three-year period. Once a consumer
has fully reimbursed PGN, ownership of the conversion equipment would be
transferred to him. In order to ensure a smooth and early introduction of the
customer conversion program, PGN would prepare and furnish to the Bank, by
September 30, 1986, detailed operating procedures for the implementation of
the program.
47.       Studies (US$1.4 million).  The project would include an Energy
Pricing Policy Study to be undertaken by the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(para. 37 above). The Bank loan would also include a provision (US$200,000)
to cover the unfinanced portion of the ongoing LPG Feasibility Study carried
out by A.D. Little (USA), following the closing of the Fifth Technical
Assistance Credit (IDA Cr. 898-IND), under which the initial portion of this
study was funded. Since the expense involved would take place before signing
of the proposed loan, provision for retroactive financing (for expenditures
made after January 1, 1986) would be made for this activity.
Project Costs
48.       The total project cost is estimated at US$86 million, of which about
US$47 million (55%) is expected to be in foreign exchange. The cost estimates
are based on end-1985 price levels. Physical contingencies are 10% of base
costs. Price contingencies are based on the following expected price in-
creases: 7.0% in 1986-87, 7.5% in 1988, 7.72 in 1989, 7.6% in 1990, and 4.5%
thereafter for imported goods and services; 6% in 1986-90 and 4.5% thereafter
for domestic goods and services. Import taxes and duties have been calculated
at an average rate of 40% for imported goods and equipment. Interest during
construction has not been included in the project costs since PGN is expected
to charge such interest expense against income during the same year. The Bank
loan would cover the foreign exchange requirements of training, the distri-
bution works and the studies (about US$24.5 million) and a portion of the



- 18 -
foreign exchange cost of the customer conversion program (US$9.5 million).
This will represent 73X of the foreign exchange cost of the project and 46% of
total costs, net of taxes and duties. The remaining expenditures will be
financed by the Government, through bilateral aid (for the technical assis-
tance to PGN), through PGN's net internal cash generation, by commercial
loans, and directly by customers (for part of the conversion expenses).
49.       The proposed Bank loan (less US$1.4 million for Government-executed
studies) would be onlent by the Government to PGN under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank. The signing of this agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Bank funds allocated to the
distribution and training components (US$23.1 million) would be repaid to GOI
by PCN over ten years after a grace period of five years, while Bank funds
allocated to the customer conversion component (US$9.5 million) would be
repaid over three years after a grace period of 5 years. The onlending rate
would be at least 12% per year, with the Government carrying the foreign
exchange risk, which is in line with current government puiLcies applicable to
public corporations.
Project Implementation
50.       PGN -- The Beneficiary.  PGN is organized geographically through
regional branches with a central office located in Jakarta responsible for
central systems and planning. The project will involve a reorganization of
PGN designed to provide for a better distribution of responsibilities and
clearer definition of lines of control, placing greater emphasis on the
functions that require strengthening, i.e., project management, budgetary
control, marketing and assistance to conversion. Approval by GOI of the
proposed reorganization will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
51.       PGN will have overall responsibility for implementing the project
(except for the LPG Feasibility and Energy Pricing Policy Studies, which will
be undertaken by the Ministry of Mines and Energy). Seconded staff from the
twinning agency will assist in designing and supervising the construction of
project facilities. In particular, the twinning agency will provide detailed
engineering designs, project implementation schedules and advisory service to
PGN on project management. Construction work will be carried out by local
contractors. The project is expected to be completed by July 1991.
52.       The project will require that PCN recruit additional staff, prima-
rily engineers and middle-level managers. To ensure that PGN is in a position
to attract and retain sufficiently qualified staff to implement and operate
the project efficiently, assurances have been obtained that GOI will allow PGN
to maintain its pay scaLe at a level as remunerative as that offered by
similar public corporations. The project will also represent a substantial
expansion in PGN's assets and operations. Therefore, PGN would review its
insurance practices and discuss the results of this review with the Bank by
June 30, 1987.
53.       Gas Supply.  In order to undertake the project, PGN requires assured
supplies of natural gas from Pertamina which manages, under guidelines set by
the Government, the distribution of natural gas produced from its own oil and



- 19 -
gas fields as well as from fields operated by foreign oil companies under
production sharing contracts. The execution of long-term supply contracts
between Pertamina and PCN for sufficient quantities of gas, acceptable to the
Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness. Moreover, PCN will be
required to prepare a rolling five-year plan covering its future gas require-
ments, to be updated each year and discussed with the Covernment and Pertamina
to form the basis for further network expansion.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       All major items of materials, equipment and related services
financed from the proceeds of the loan shall be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank guidelines, except for
(i) items of small value for the gas distribution component (not exceeding
US$50,000 each and US$3 million in total) which are available off-the-shelf,
such as electrical switchgear, flex, low pressure pipes and valves; and
(ii) goods required for customer conversion and costing less than US$100,000
individually, subject to an aggregate limit of US$6,500,000. Such small value
items will be procured through international or local shopping in accordance
with the Bank guidelines. Works related to customer conversion to gas wilL be
procured under local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods under ICB, qualified domestic suppliers will be allowed a preference of
15% of the CIF price or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
Bidding packages for goods over US$300,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation. Consultant services for the Energy
Pricing Policy Study will be obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines for
the use of consultants.
55.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment, materials and related services; (b) 100%
of local equipment and materials expenditures (ex-factory); (c) 65% of the
cost of other items procured locally (off-the-shelf); (d) 50Z of the cost of
works related to customer conversion; (e) 100% of foreign expenditures for
training; and (f) 10OZ of expenditures for consulting services. Disbursement
is expected to follow the Bank's standard profile over six years (the last
year for retention fees).
Ecology and Safety
56.       No significant environmental problems are likely to result from the
implementation of the project. Actually, the project is expected to result in
improved environmental conditions. The combustion products of natural gas are
considerably less polluting than those of the liquid hydrocarbon fuels (fuel
oil, diesel and kerosene) which will ba replaced, and the project will contri-
bute to a reduction in the urban pollution level, especially in industrial
zones. The pipelines will be buried and therefore pose no unusual environ-
mental hazard. Appropriate standards and codes of practice will be followed
in the detailed engineering and construction to ensure proper protection and
minimize the likelihood of third party damage. Moreover, the proposed project
will drastically reduce the environmental hazards due to leaking and corroded
pipelines in the cities served by PGN, which are either going to be replaced
or rehabilitated to proper standards.



- 20 -
Accounts and Audit
57.       PGN's accounts are maintained in accordance with current Government
regulations. The timeliness and accuracy of reporting is generally satisfac-
tory. On the whole, PGN's accounting system folLows generally accepted prin-
ciples and utility practices. However, the accounting process is still very
labor-intensive and computerization of accounting routines is required to per-
mit PCN to expand its operation in an efficient manner. The terms of refer-
ence for the twinning agency provide for assistance to PGN in this area.
According to its charter, PCN's accounts are audited by CovernmenL auditors
following generally accepted audit practices. Assurances have been obtained
that PCN will supply the Bank with its annual financial statements within six
months of the end of its fiscal year and the corresponding audit report,
prepared by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, within three months
thereafter.
PGN's Finances
58.       Due to small-scale operations and an old and leaky pipeline network,
PGN's gas operations produced a net loss up to FY83, and financial performance
has been spotty thereafter, despite high gross margins on gas sales. Through
replacement of leaky networks, increased sales volume and improved producti-
vity, PCN's financial performance is expected to improve markedly under the
project. At the end of the project period, PCI's internal cash generation is
expected to finance all its capital investment, and projected financial ratios
are expected to be fully satisfactory. Assurances have been obtained that PGN
would produce, with effect from its fiscal year 1988/89, a rate of return on
revalued net fixed assets in operation of at least 10Z.
59.       Once the project is completed and when PGN's financial record has
improved, the Government should consider giving PGN greater financial autono-
my. This could be done by allowing PGN greater borrowing in its own name in
the commercial market and by letting PGN use a higher propcrtion of its cash
generation for future investments. These aspects will be discussed with PGN
and the Government during project execution.
Project Justification and Risks
60.       The principal justification for the project is that it will enable
the substitution of gas for other fuels in high-value, mostly industrial
uses. Concommitant to this, the project will build up the institutional cap-
ability needed to establish the active marketing of gas to small/medium indus-
try. It will also help develop replicable technological standards for city
gas distribution. The project has been designed to result in a significant
transfer of technology and skills to PCN, which will enable it to expand
domestic gas distribution in the future with minimal expatriate input.
61.       The project has been evaluated by comparing the economic costs and
benefits accruing to the country with and without the project. The benefits
consist principally of savings in liquid fuels which will be replaced by gas
in industrial use. In view of the considerable uncertainty regarding the
price of liquid fuels, relatively conservative projections (corresponding to



- 21 -
an oil price of US$16/bbl in 1990 and US$22Jbbl in 1995, in 1985 dollars) have
been used as a basis for project economic analysis. On this basis, the
project is expected to yield net benefits to the country of about US$18.0
million p.a. by 1992, and to result in an economic internal rate of return of
31Z. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the viability of the project is
susceptible to variations in the value of alternate fuels and in the magnitude
of demand, but remains acceptable even under rather adverse circumstances.
Even with 50Z lower gas sales than projected, the economic rate of return of
the project would be 13Z; similarly, a drop in alternative fuel prices of 30Z
(relative to the assumptions described above) would still permit an economic
rate of return of 13Z.
62.       The potential project risks are: inadequate gas supplies, inability
of PGN to carry out the project efficiently, and slow conversion to gas of
potential customers. To address these risks, assurances have been obtained
that adequate quantities of gas would be allocated to PGN, the proposed
twinning arrangement has been designed to provide PGN with the necessary
measure of technical and managerial support, and assistance would be provided
under the project in the form of a customer conversion program to help
alleviate the financial and technical constraints to conversion. Moreover,
the demand projections prepared by the consultants appear conservative
relative to the size of the potential market. Finally, as mentioned above,
even if sales value were to drop by 50% relative to the assumptions underlying
the analysis, due either to reduced demand or lowered gas value (related to
lower-than-assumed costs of alternative fuels), prcject economic returns would
be acceptable.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I am satisified that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 16, 1986
Washington, D.C.
.



ANNEX I
-22-                                     Page I of 6 pages
126.5    1@X lf5.                  MI A  C                 A.   Q a Ca
7fflL                             1919.1     1919.3      1§1:}-,
AMC.LOA                            2"J1        307.1      313.3        
_ C A CM)                               *- *                  60.0            1011.1                   1375.9
-  a1111n mm
cuI.oouaa Of aD. 10mqumvmur        58.         91.0      131.0              564J                     993.6
PoMflU.ID-!UR (?NMIA)  94680.0   116201.0   1550*6.0
13* 203UL12O (X0f TOTAL)           14.6       17.1        24.1              35.3                     67.7
PWUIJT!0  VEJCTZ
PoeiilaZ    IN nu    200 (N=L                           21).0
UTATZOUAE IIIWIOPUT    (NZLL)                           368.0
POHIIA?10 MOETU                                           1.6
POIULATMZ  *in.
n3 SQ. M.                         43.2       60.5        31.1             386.3                     43.0
M  SQ. U. ANI. LAND              319.3      373.4       4*3.4            1531.2                     31.1
101MA4220W A03 UTNUCTURE CI)
0-14 us                         40.7        44.0        40.6              33.2                     33.3
15-64  SU                        56.2        53.4        55.5              57.7                     57.1
62 ANS ADM                        3.0         2.5         3.5               2.5                      4.2
POIDLAZZO& cli 3am3 CZ)
TOTAL                              2.1        2.0         2.2               2.3                      2.4
O1RB                               3.7        3.6         4.3               4.1                      3.6
Cluall     32a CPS TI)             44.2        41.0        34.0              30.1                     30.9
CUlS: D0un 3823(3cm3TRU)            22.9       17.6        12A                3.4                      *.0
CiOU    311 CTIaU 3121               2.7        2.7         2.1               1.3                      2.0
1*A51. PLANNING
ACC3PTOUS. ANNAL (05)              ..       181.1      3051.0 IC
sts CZ of       1 WOMEN            ..          ..        53.0              54.5                     45.3
-103  0 row0 MM0. *1 CAITA
(1963-71-100)                      33.0       102.0       123.0             124.4                    108.6
:3 CAWPITA  1PLY Of
CALOuANS CZ or 33uwTAmurr3)       73.0       92.0       112.0             115.7                    113.2
moTuzS (CaI  JU D3 )             34.0        41.0        53.0              60.3                     69.4
07 NUCi AUm  aMM PMU              6.0        6.0         7.0 Id           14.1                     34.2
CuIW C(AGS 1-4) V1423 RA2Z         21.9        18.1        13.0               7.2                      4.8
LXVI Flfx . AT 3M  (C181)         41.2        47.0        53.5              60.6                     64.3
XIPAIT NO!?. t2 (M TR00)           150.0      121.0  lG!.C                   64.9                     59.7
ACCESS TO 3111 *AT1 (2POIP)
TOAL                               ..         3.0        23.0              *6.0                     65.3
UAW                                ..        10.0        A0.C              57.6                     76.5
RlAL                              ..         1.0        13.0              37.1                     44.2
ACC7S  TO II3A DISPOSAL
CZ or POrULAUOx)
TOAL                              ..         15.0        23.0              50.1                     56.3
UU33*                              ..        19.0        20.0              52.9                     73.4
A3WAL                              ..        14.0        24.0              44.7                     25.5
Pa1ULATION PU P1TSICLU          46780.0    26510.0    11530.0 J            7751.                    1903.7
POP. PER N0353 P1150             4510.0 /t  7680.0       230.0 0           2464.5                    803.2
POP. PR HOSVITAL nD
TOTAL                           1360.0     1650.0      1720.0/           1112.1                    262.0
03381                           250.0         ..        700.0  I          651.4                    422.0
uL                                 ..         ..       3160.0 7i         2536.9                   2716.7
ADSUOIS S& NOSDFITAL *10             ..         ..          ..               41.1                     27.5
AWZUMI S=l 0F IMZIOI8EL
TOTAL                             4.4         4.3
032*5                             4.9         5.3
RURAL                             '.3         4.7
AWUCK NO. OF PI3SM5RWH
TOTAL                              ..         1.5
035*2                             .-          1.6
RuAL                               ..         1.5
3C rA'T OF or U.LZUCS 1111 ELCT.
TOTAL                              ..         ..
umi                                ..         ..          .                  ..



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                 Page 2 of 6 pages
INDON SIA             - SOCIAL INDICATO04 DATA SHEET
INDONESlA                           REPERORC CAOUPS (IJSlGNTD AVERAGES 
HOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOKE          MIDDLE TxCoHc
9lbt      197a-b ESTIHATELk       ASIA A PACIFIC          tAT. AKEICA 4 CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLUIENT RATIOS
PRXNARY:  TOTAL                   71.0        77.0      100.0              100.7                    106.7
MAIZ                   86.0        83.0       106.0             104.4                     108.5
FEMALE                 58.0        71.0       94.0               97.2                     104.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   6.0        15.0       33.0               47.8                     44.2
HALE                   10.0        20.0       38.0               50.6                     42.7
tEHALE                  3.0        10.0       27.0               44.8                     44.9
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)         20.4        22.1       13.9               18.6                     13.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        29.0       29.0               30.4                     29.9
SECONDARY                         14.0        13.0       16.0               22.2                     16.7
COMITIO
PASSENGE  CARS/THOUSAND POP          1.1         Z.1        4.4 /c            10.1                     46.0
RADIO RPCEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         7.2        21.9      131.2              172.9                    328.3
TV REtcIVtRs/rw0SA   POP             0.1         0.9       22.6               58.5                    112.4
NEYSPAPER (CDAILY GUIEAL
INTE1ZSrS) CIRMJLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            11.0         ..        14.9               65.3                     B1.1
CINMIE  AblUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     2.8         ..         1.0 /c             3.4                      2.4
TOTL LASOR fORo  (tm1s)          34791.0    41090.0    54417.0
FEUALE (PECNT)                    27.0        30.9       29.3               33.6                     23.6
AGR:COLTURZ (PERCENT)             75.0        66.0       58.0 /c            52.2                     31.4
IONUSTrY (PERCEN                   8.0        10.0       12.0 7;            17.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             36.7        35.4       35.0               38.9                     33.5
MALE                              54.2        49.5       49.6               50.8                     51.3
VZALz                             20.0       21.6        20.4               26.8                     15.9
ECOlMC DEPEUCY RATIO                 1.2         1.3        1.3                1.1                      1.3
X113 DI5r32TIOE
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCQOM
RECCIVED B
IcUEsr 5X OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..          ..        23.5 Ig
HcHsTs 2zm OFIIHOUSHOLDS            ..                   49.'4-A,           48.0
LOIICST 20I OF llOUSEHOLDS         6..                     .6 7i             6.4                      .
LHCEST 401 OF HOUSIEOLDS           ..          ..        14.4              41.5
POYM    TA    crOW
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTt INCOME
LCVEL (USS PER CAPIT)
URBAN                              ..        124.0 /b   124.0 lh             ..                     288.3
RURAL                              ..        106.0 7    106.0 7;i          151.9                    185.3
ESTZNAZE  RELATIV  POVERlt INCOME
LEML (USS PER CAPITA)
URAN                               ..          ..       119.0 lb           177.9                    519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        98.0 7ii          164.7                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVER  INCOME LZVEL (2)
URBA                               ..         51.0 lb    26.0 lh            23.5
RURAL                              ..         59.0 71    44.0 7T            37.8
NOT AVAILALE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT    S
Lf   Thb group averages for each indicator are population-wigbted eritheltic mens.  Coverage of countries
among the Indicator. depends on availability of date end is not uniform.
/b  Unless otharvlse noted. "Dota for 1960" refer to any year betvwen 1959 and 1961. "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimte" between 1981 and 1983.
Je 1980; /d 1977; /a 1979; If 1962; , 1976; /h 19B0 price.
JNCE. 1985



ANNEX  I
- 24 -                                    Page 3 of 6 pages
DWIYETNOfES Ot SOCLAL I1DICAT1tS
Noew Athogh ta dam en dawn rmm aowjm pmwauljudpd Stt  autkonatsv and mala.b  sbo ii aWm be owlA ta they my not be unmiaiaisly
compamable bua oft tac lat affndarsd dasitioma and no.pu urnd by dillt cumtm in aflactangw mba . da  dT s am   ma eIm , __ to
danbe orden of    _ m ddiu 1 mdr. and eanetm d.m anam major dlranon b-n enenm
The refetne poop am( II) thm enmity  wpp of ik stjm country MM (2) a eDounwy  moop with wewhat hinm avama incioe thmn tbe comiry
potp of the rWa coy ( t fir or-HiSe lu. Ol aEponm poop _a  -iMdleeIorn  onh rAfirn an lMdle Em" is c     bhmos d  onger
ci ti  litial. In i  reri  proup data ie *au am poWpuation etd andac rm  rr ect idiar nd sbw oly wen myoity
of dth coutrie in p up km daa for that indiator. Sine   ovaera cuamsria aions e aindimors dpned_ on tie amIability eodata md is not umfom.
cautn mu beceraud m ietim  ava"n   or ow indtrme another ium atr  arm oyumandli comparing tie valueeori eindicators a tiume among
the couty ran reiefene poo
AREA (thousand sq.kmj                                          Crud Sll  Rate (pfr theusiad-Number oflive birtd in tie year
Teti-Total surface area compnsing land area and inland wates.  per thousad or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crud Deat Rate (pe shoutassd-Number of deaths - the year
Afrkbnl-Estrimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pernanendy for crops. pas turs. narket and kitchen gardens or to  GCn Repe  die Rae-Average nurnber of daughten a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expcnenmcs
present age-specific fertility rates; usualy five-year aveges ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market priccs, calculated by sane conversion method as Wfrld   Fandy Plmmnivq-Acepn. A I (rhot ssdJ       j-Annual num-
Iik Atlas (198143 basis); 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPIION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparnt                  family planning program
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    Fandp Pl r-Usfws (percen ofmruid macnj-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tncity) in kiograms of oil eqwvalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practiing any forn ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are gnerally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VtTAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Toral paloria Mid- Year (thoumsaudsj-As orfJuly 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NURFON
and 1983 data.
Urban Popufwriaie (percent of orael)-R.ttio of urban w  total  AtSx offOdAW&Crin Pr Capirt (196-71 - 100)-lndex of per
dr  a w    {ot  f re'r-Rao ol' urbn tO tOUI    captia annual production of all food comnmodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agculture. Food commoduties
ability of data amnong counlrnes; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.exusanalfdadsedorgclte.Fdcmoiis
include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Ppuatio Plojections                                            which are edible and contain nutnents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Papulaion u- year .0O-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they compnse cercals. root crops. pulses. od seeds.
made ror each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabksl fruits. nuts. sugarcmane and supr beet livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  hvestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migrtion in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumpuons until the population became statonary.              P  capita Spply ofCalori (percet efreq0eniemsrn-Comput-
Stanionarv populanon-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
talitv rates have not changed over a long penod. wihle age-specific  per capita per day Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement evel  EIon. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
mnet reproduction rate = 1) In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agrnculture. quantities used in
consuant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distnbuton. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and bealth considenng environmental temperature. body vociglhts.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertlity  age and sex distnbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentun-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Ctpita Supply of Protei (grams per day)-Proteon content of
continue bevond the time that replacement-level fcrtility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Nct supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requiremenis for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momfentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grans of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popylado Dansy                                                 avenge for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per .q.kin.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Ca     Jherei Supply Fro  Ammal ad Pabe-Protemn supply
Per sq.km. agriculura land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses m grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Popularioe  Age Structe (percrsi)-Clhldren (0-14 years). work-  CW'ages 1-4J  Deat Rare (per thAwsad)-Number ordeaths of
ing age I 15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mad-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countnes data denved
Population Growth Rate (Pereemt)-0rtat--Annttal growth rates of  from hfe tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Population Growth Raze (percezmti--rrou--Annual growth rates   Life ExPrey  a Birth  (year-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
-25-                                    Page 4 of 6 pages
a the time of of la birat wee to stay the sae  throughout it iife  NWpS-An'r Aaio - prnmay. and zecmnelr-Total tudents en-
1960, 1970 ond 1983 data.                                      rolbd in primay  nd econday levels divided by numwb  of
J_fa MOp Ber (paw a*_heud)-Numbur of infans who die            teach  in the corrpondin levels.
before rechiWg one year of ae per thousnd live birth in s given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 do.                                  CONSUMmPION
Am ir to    JIbW   rpmv  o   Ud        Ub 4W              &Id  Punqe  Cans (fpr Secsnd pepslieuj-Fhsocnger cas corn-
mod-Number of people (totl urb and rurl) with reaaoeable       prim motor cas sating les thsn eiSht penons; excludes ambul.
acor   to afe water spply (iwhude  treatd sfce wat or          ancms, he ad maiftry vehicle
untratd  but unontanaedo water suh a tht from protected        Rese Rv ,m,   epe iemen popsilata)-Al Mtys of recvers
boisholes. spnnp nd satay wedls)u petUDUes of their rsp        for radio brod u t generalr public per thousand of population;
Sv popuationEz In - urban are a public fountain or      s      excudes un-licensed mrcve in countie  and in years when
locu vatdnt more than 200 meter from a house may be cowir      regitration of radio set was in effect data ror recnt year may
as beial within reasonable scoesof that hour In ru ralr aaed 
eretenabk scom would imply that thehousewife or eambers of     no be c     r t            cho    s a    hed iene
housEhold do not have to spend a disproporttinare pan of the day  TV Reive (per SSC5EpqUiS)-Tv receivr fr broadcast
without ttmbm 0 the f day's human cxcdse andto general public per thousand poptain excudes unlensed TV
inc ritngte famu Diphrs w patrned                              receidm__ t wdxvers in countries and in year when registration of TV set wins
ead meld-Number of People (total, urban, and rural) served by  i  fet
excroa disposa as pretages of their respectve populations       dWmaner CJulsueu (Pw rheuwd pop.Moliee-Shows the aver-
Eacreta disposal my include the collecton and disposal, with or  aP circulation of "dailY genera intees newspaperC defined mas
without trmatnient. of human excreta and wast-water by water-  ptiodiznl publication devoted PnmarilY to  erdwing guenera news.
borne sysems or the we of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be *Maily" if it appears at ks four times a wek.
Populur  Per PhYskdE--bpulation divided by number of prac-     Cms   Ama)_ Asreuim  per C;ta per Ye_-Bsed on the
tisang pbYicia  qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tckets sold during the yer. including admissions to
P.hbni. per Nusin Parwn-_Population divided by number of       drive-in cinenas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurse  assiant nurses.
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                        TOlAB FORCE
lo Ne*J per HadBnl-M, orb  .|s dra-Populztion                 TtLbrFem  thsadh t-)-Economicly active persons. in.
towla urbsn. Hnd umal divided by  an,ir rispective numbur on   cluding armed forcns and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in publc and private. gneral and specialkId  stude nts. dc .. cvcring poput i   of a1  . Definion  in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are estblishments  vanous countries are not compable 1960. 1970 and 1983 dta.
permanentlh eaffed by at east one physician. Establshments prov-  Femo  (percrmaulFemale labor frce as percentage of total labor
Wing principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
however. include health and medial centers not permanently stffed  Agrule (     -Labor fore in fanning, forstry, hunting
by a physicia (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwvft. etc.)  and fisLing as percntage of torll labor foe 1960 1970 and 1980
which ofer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         I1iury (pereent-Labor force in mining. constructioi, manu-
Adntsstie per Hospi s ru -Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischrges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force. 1960.1970 and 1980 data.
Pbniierdim      (tfpermeatD-.raat inh sdkfnh-Participation
HOUSCNG                                                        or activity rates ar computed as total male. eandf emale labor form
Auerqe Sir of Hoehol (psns per Aseh _el)-trl, urbn             as percentages of totaL male and female population of al ages
ndrwal-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  parOcipation rates reflcting age-sex stuctureof the population. and
may not be included in the houschold for statistical pusposes.  long ame trend. A few estimates are from national sourcms.
Aveae Number of Persons per Room-total. urban, and mai-        Econmic Drpendency Rae-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population ithose aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOMJIE DISTRIBUTION
Perctage of DweEngs ebb Eceiiry-roral. urbn. and ma!-          Perceng of Toal Disposable Inco  (both in cash ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with eleancity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tape of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4ded fErlbinnr Res                                            The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Priry scheie - toal. ma/c ard fema/eGross totaL male and      levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the prmiary level as percentages of  Esimaed Absolue tewrry Iacome Level (LS per capita -_urb
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  an ndra-Absolute povrty income lvel is that nme  level
consder primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a mnimal nutntionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracuces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiraments is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Eited Relafe Poverty Income Leve (SI per cepdro)--wban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ed rxral-Rural relative poverty income klvel is onc-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - tolrl. male and ferale--Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Esrimed Populwio  Below Abslirte Por    Incom  Leve (per-
mary instrucion provides generaL vocational. or teacher trainig  crnr -urbn ad rel'- Percent of population (urban and rural
instrucUons for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
ence courxs are generaly excluded.
Vocational Enrolmnmi (percent of secandaw,-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tiors indude technical. industrial. or other programs which operate    Economnic Analysis and Projections Departnent
independently or as departments of scondary instutwons                                 June 1985



- 26 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6 pages
Population        155.8 mlllion (mid-1983)
GNP per Capita: US$560 (1983 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(Million USS at                             Annual growth rate (Z) /b
current prices)                 Actual                                 Projected
Indicator                            1983         19_0   1981   l9Z   1Y83  19834/a  195   1986   198a  Ly85   1989   1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross dome-tSE  product le         78,344        9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896        12.5      .5   -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                        27,797        11.8      .8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consumption                        62,731       12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gross lnvestment /d                18,908       18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CNFS                    19,508       -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Imports of CNFS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2  -8.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Gross national savings             12,273       33.2  -20.0  -11.3    3.7   18.4   -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PRICES
--2ri1deflator (1981 - 100)                        91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (Rp per US$)                       627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(at current price)                           Average annul increase (Z) lb
TW-0 1910   1975    p                                        78 197n-80   198085   199l-90
Gross domestic product          100    100    100    100    100    100           3.9        8.4       7.4        4.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54      47     32      25     26     25         2.7       4.1        3.3        4.1       3.7
Industry                       14      18     34     43      38     38         5.2      12.0        9.8       3.4        4.2
Services                       32      35     35      32     36     37         4.8       9.7        9.5       5.6        5.5
Consumption                    91      89     79     71      78     76         4.1       8.4        9.2       6.0        4.0
Gross investment /d             B      14     20      21     18     19         4.8      18.3       12.2       2.6        5.4
Exports of GNFS                13      13     23      31     25     24         3.6       9.2        2.9      -1.1        4.0
Imports of GNFS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19           3.2      22.1       44.0       2.6        2.5
Gross national savings          8       9     17     26      19     21         6.1      23.1       14.2      -0.3        6.8
As Z of GDP
1960              19_0               197T               1980                1954
PUBLIC FINUNCE Ie
=urrent revenue                               11.7               10.1               17.4               22.5               21.5
Current expenditures                          14.0                8.4                9.9               12.8               13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                    -2.3               +1.6               +7.5               +9.7               +8.2
Capital expenditure                            n.a.               5.0               11.3               13.0               10.0
Foreign financing                              0.2                3.5                3.7                3.3                1.8
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP grouth rate (1)                            4.5             7.6              7.1             4.1              4.7
Annual GUP per capita growth rate (Z)                 2.4             5.1              4.7             2.0              2.5
Annual energy consumption growth rate (Z)             2.2            11.2             11.0             1.4              4.6
ICOR                                                 2.2              2.2              3.3             6.8              4.0
Marginal savings rate                                 0.30            0.48             0.28           -0.01             0.29
Import elasticity                                     1.2             2.8              0.84            0.57             0.53
/a Estimates.
78 At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7T5 At market prices.
7T Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consumption.
7e9 Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 31, 1985



Populatlon    :  155.8 million (mid-1983)                     - 27 -
GNP per Capita:  US$560 (1983 estinate)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAOYENTS AND EXITERNAL CAPITAL AND r
kIMlllons US5 at current prices)
Actual
L9o0     19B1      l9I2     198B      I1B4/a
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS/b
1.  nxporta                                     22,885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20,243
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                    17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,341  r
(b)  Nonoil                                  5,588    4.170    3,928    5,368    5,902
2.  Imports (including not NFS)                -17.589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611
() Oil sector                               -4,050   -5.407   -4,802   -3,839   -3,135
(b)  Nonoil imports                       -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805
(c)  NFS (net)                              -1,702   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,611
3.  Resource balance                             5,296       424   -3,667       162   -2,632
4.  Factor services                             -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596
(a)  Interest public debt                     -823     -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,62C
(b)  Other (net)                            -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3.220   -2,976
5.  Capital grants                                  76        67       105       95       100
6.  Balance on current account                   2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864
7. Dlrect foreign Investnent                       140       142       311      193       250
8.  Public H & LT loan.
(a)  Disbursement                            2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828
(b)  Amortization                             -936   -1.053   -1,102   -1,295   -1,628
(c)  Net disbursements                       1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,220
9.  Other capital (net)                         -1,488       -31       455    1,975       287
10.  Change In reserves (- Incresse)             -2,736       988    3,350   -1,619      -873
11. Net offEcial reserves                         7,342    6,354    3,004    4,623    5,496
Reserves In months of nonoil ilports
+ NFS                                        6.5       4.4       2.1      3.5       4.6
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system/c                                     10,787   10,622    6,322    8,395    9,930
Total reierves In months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                   9.6       7.4      4.3       6.4      8.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Dlabursements                             2,551    2,673    4.192    4,965    3,828
Concesslonal Loans                5[ ;8                 F             W       '1
Bilateral.                                             TI7 m              34T 1W7
IDA                                            42        69       78        60       54
Other                                           6         7        8         8        19
Nonconcessional Loans                           1.892    1880    3,503    4 357    3,277
Milateral                                     :U f      itm      -3TT    ;,II        '7LU
IBRD                                            331       314      505       489      772
Other multilateral                               52        85       126      160      163
Private-source                                1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed /e            14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
official-source                                *5    1         Tflir1-   T711Z   T7O ,821
Private-source                              5,465    5,812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                              9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service
Total servlce payments                        1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                      823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of exports/f                      7.7       8.9     12.0      12.9     16.0
AveraRe Interest Rate on New Loans (1)            8.1       8.7       9.2      8.8      9.1
otticial-source                                 5.4       7.8      8.8       8.7      8.6
Private-source                                 12.4       9.4      9.5       8.8      9.8
Average Maturity of New Loans (Years)            18.8      15.5     15.2      15.1     15.9
ozr es.i.-source                               24.4      20.5     20.6      22.3     20.9
Private-source                                  9.8      11.1     11.1      10.3      9.2
Asn -
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year
/a  Estimates.
7T  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7T  Ineludes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7i  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7e  At end of period.
7r  Oil exports treated on gross basis.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                        Page I of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Forty Loans and forty-four Credits fully
disbursed                                                1,971.86   777.89         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             109.00      -         22.96
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            50.50      -         10.40
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       53.60      -          9.14
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00      -         75.49
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00      -         37.34
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.49      -          4.87
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      1.2.00       5.50
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           92.00      -         23.85
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -      37.60        5.53
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      39.00       19.26
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00      -         36.55
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            30.00      -         15.69
1840    1980   Naticnal Agricultural Research                35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -      30.00        0.56
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00      -         65.46
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               25.00      -         10.51
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00      -         31.26
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                  250.00      -         10.97
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00      -         11.70
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00       -        19.66
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            134.00       -        80.69
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikanpek Highway                      85.00       -        66.60
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00       -        39.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00       -         9.34
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-29-                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00      -         65.84
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                       85.00      -         32.27
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       79.59      -         64.19
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00      -         21.22
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.00      -         15.66
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java             70.00      -         36.31
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00      -         31.35
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI            55.50      -         43.77
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00      -         14.56
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering        5.50      -          4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00      -        223.08
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          138.90      -        136.43
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00      -         23.25
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40      -         19.22
2248    1983   Transmigration IIT                           101.00      -         54.16
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00      -         24.74
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60      -         17.35
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90      -        131.24
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50      -         59.14
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40      -        105.47
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00      -        171.84
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30      -         52.43
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20      -         47.84
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00      -         34.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00      -         60.31
-~    2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00      -        185.23
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.25      -         35.45
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.65      -         96.73
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      65.00      -         62.73
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00      -        196.07
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                 50.00      -         19.75
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00      -         73.58



-30-                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation           11.30      -        11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II           131.00       -       131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                            46.00       -        46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)          39.00      -        39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                               156.00       -       156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development               147.00       -       147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                 43.40       -        43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                  111.00       -       111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                         160.00       -       160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training              93.00       -        93.00
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development /a            32.00       -        32.00
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply /a             43.30       -        43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health        33.40       -        33.40
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support /a         33.00       -        33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation /a         166.00       -       166.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          8,149.54   896.49
Of which has been repaid                   -577.51   -23.38
Total now outstanding                     7,572.03   873.11
Amount sold to third pauty        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         7,572.03   873.11
Total undisbursed /c                                          4,053.25
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Includes loans not yet effective.



ANNEX II
31                          Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVFSTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                                 Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                              Type of business          -  (US$ million) -
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                    10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                          Textiles                   2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                   2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                 Cable                      2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                      4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel              Tourism                    9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                   2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                    Electronics                0.9     -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                           Dev. fin. co.               -     0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                   2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                      -      1.1     1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                      0.4     -       0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                   1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                         Textiles                   0.9     -       0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera                 Capital market             4.0    1.2      5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries        Glass dinnerware          11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia         Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
198215  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing           Capital market             5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                    25.0     -      75.0
1985    P.T. Asuransi Jiwua Dharmala         Capital market              -     0.4      0.4
ManuLife
1985    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia         Cement                     0.8     -       0.S
Total gross commitments                                      144.4   20.0   164.4
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                          113.4    7.3   120.7
Total held by IFC                                             31.0   12.7    43.7



-32 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                               :  1 year
(b)  Agency which prepared the project           :  Perusahaan Umum
Gas Negara
(c)  First presentation to the Bank              :  1984
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission         July 15, 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations                  : March 28, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness               : August 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Soecial Conditions
A.   Condition of Effectiveness:
(i)   the execution of a technical assistance agreement acceptable to
the Bank between PGN and an established gas utility (para. 45);
(ii)   the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Bank between the Borrower and PGN (para. 49);
(iii)   approval of the proposed reorganization of PGN by GOI (para.
50); and
(iv)   the execution of long-term contracts acceptable to the Bank for
the supply of natural gas in accordance with the quantities
required through the end of the project period (para. 53).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
B.   Other Conditions
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)   PCN will review its gas tariffs by July 31, 1988, discuss the
results of this review witi GOI and the Bank and thereafter make
any necessary tariff adjustment, taking into account the Bank's
and GOI's comments (para. 37);
(ii)   PCN will submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1987,
plans for upgrading its existing networks in cities other than
Jakarta, Bogor and Medan with the economic, financial and
technical justification for the proposed activities (para. 44);
(iii)   COI/PGN will prepare and furnish to the Bank detailed operating
procedures for the customer conversion program, not later than
September 30, 1986 (para. 49);
(iv)   the Borrower will allow PGN to maintain its pay scale at a level
as remunerative as to that offered by similar public
corporations (para. 52);
(v)   PGN will prepare a rolling five-year plan for its future gas
requirements to be updated by the end of each fiscal year and
discussed with Government and Pertamina (para. 53); and
(vi)   PGN will take necessary measures to produce as from its fiscal
year 1988/89 a rate of return on its revalued net fixed assets
in operation of at least 1OZ (para. 58).



W.-  -.'TH;AILAND          -IT                                               '                    "_,'In'   '          '       PHI-IPFsNES   _                                         INDONESIA
F        !  ,   ., .   h r7 ..  '.  >   1   ,GAS DISTRIBUTION  PROJECT
RU                        L                                _                                                             NATIONALCATAL
MALAYSIA   IV                                                     ' f                                                                                                         ARVR
% K 1.                                                                                                     1__ ,  < * \)  , e S,        . ' :., . - - INIERMATlONAL (ROUNDAMIES
_r.         Vt-> ->  r   t~                     '.-------M                         a°AIIIA
V,                                                                  ,                               , LRAtA
<O5   9~v                                                                                                                                                                     'Ž         t \/ 
EB3~~ -,. - - --CS. I



-  1I ' '             -         I- I  I ._
SUMATEA       108'       110o     112.     114.
G  u   f  o f  J a k a r   a
W1 JAKARTA.
i     /t- -   -.(  .MANDURrA
Z,             J A    AV;-3    
INDIAN OCEAN        ---_           '    -                     t__--                                                                          -
If~~~~~~~~~~~
1j69    10,8       1100      112'    -71.4                                       
Cengk 4reng                                                                             JAKARTA  
I N DONESIA_\\    
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
JAKARTA GAS DISTRIBUTION
PROJECT AREAS
Planned:                '      Pertomina Trunk Lines
Supply Mains             0     Regulator Stations
EOTC- ODistribution Network            Commercial and Industrial Areas
0    Regulator Stations      ----  Cily Boundary                                                                     Cimonggis
Existing,                      Rivers                 o                 1 2 3 4 5
>   Exisling                   National Capital                         KIIOEE                  I -_>,i                                                                     Po
w -     Supp:y t.iains                                                          KINational Capitot  KtLOMETERS                                - _                          -



IBRD 19439
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cI
KEC SAWANSAN
KEC CILEUNGSI
KEC BOJONG CEDE
0                  /   7   t/                     ~~~~~~~~I N D 0 N E S I A
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
BOGOR GAS DISTRIBUTION
PROJECT AREAS
KEC CIOMASBOGOR                                    KEC CITEUREUP
0    Regulator Sotitor,r
Conimnercol and Industiiol Areas
*D   Nalioiial Cap.tar
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 <\4X'IIg
SIT  I \    I                                  Supply Moins~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
KEC CIOMAS                  \.LK CIAWVI
C.                                                                                            AOI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   k)GI      ANDURA
1    I    2    3    4    5                              A
XV hy  NV KItOMETERS                  :NDIAN OCEAl
106t    1 _r      1        11       1142
_ _    ____________________________________________________________________A                                          UR__6__ \  IS  IND:AN    O
JANUARY l1986



5 Bulu Cina                                                                         Percut 
:- *>       A IUMPU,l'4!,                                                                                -
**,     '-^N  ft *   t CHINA                        '             .     , -                      O Serua'i                                              Strait of Malacca
OCEAN ~ ~ ~~SE
9   \   Za549EAtOtt                            Medon Lobuhon,i L                            Del         PerC                                           A
ae  >o >  CN   ') si4 0i_       '                      '~~~~~~~~~ Poyo, PositA , )o.heo                           -       ~        _
Medan  8  (ro    r         mipang Konlor 
z \   vg,l't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xsig
Wam        o o' Tadm0Kelumporig                                           _                                 Soentiso     GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Wampu o Tondem   (                                FA                                        (!~~~~ ME DAN GAS DISTRIBUTION
a OKelambir tima         l              oMcd=n Deli                                     PROJECT  AREAS
I~I<                                                                                           Plonned:
MEDAN 1/                                          -     Supply Mains
\ % Glugu54 ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Distribution NetworLs
OBija  T imbong LongKlco                                  iveca Bor                oMledan limur                                      |       0    Reguatoor Networlks
Medo    ungnjai  1  tkedan Borol                                                          )               . .
K,                                              M/dc j3                                                                         K'            O    "Regulator Stations
e a edon ear   QL   ;;; o               nM     no                    ,                    Commerciol and Industrial Areas
a+ O5ei Krio                                                    (                                                         LF Ri111 }  \  §  \  \  .  7 OAmplos    Rivers
S    Notional Capitals
-    .3 |    _International Boundaries
0 Sei Mencirimnf
^ "   >        f  ( / / { \                                                  I           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITanjung Mornwo             ?      
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   I  _                                                                                                              J I  
XILOMETERl



