DOcMsUt of
The World Bnk
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONl
Report No. P-6371 MAL
REPORT AM RECOMMENDATION
OF TE
PRESENT OF THE
INTERNAnONAL DEVELOPM    ASSOCATON
TrO TUM
EXECUTI  DIRECTORS
ON A IROPOSED
ENTERPiRIS  AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTME CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR10.6 MILON
TO
THIE BEIPUBUIC OF ALBANIA
July 8, 194
Ml ICROG4RAPH I CS
I This docOument has a restricted dismibtion a nd eport Nt: 1-  :37 1 ALBt
their official duties. Its contents may not otber Type PR



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENCY UNITS
Currency Unit = Lek
(Average Commercial Rates)
June  Sept.  Dec.  June
1991   9922   1    9     5 1993  1994
US$1.00=    15.0  98.9  101.0 95.0  98.0  99.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAC         -      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
BAD          -      Bank for Agriculture and Development
BoA          -      Bank of Albania
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
CF           -      Cost, Insurance and Freight
CMEA         -      Council of Mutual Econonic Assistance
CMFS         -      Conmmittee for Mod-ernization of the Financial Sector
CoM          -      Council of Ministers
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstrction and Development
EFSAC        -      Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ERA          -      Enterprise Restructuring Agency
ESAF         -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU           -      European Union
G24          -      Group of 24 Industrialized Nations
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GoA          -      Govermnent of Albania
GSI          -      Generalized System of Preferences
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -      International Development Association
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
KESH         -      Albanian Electricity Company
MoF          -      Ministry of Finance
NAP          -      National Agency for Privatization
NCB          -      National Commercial Bank
NMP          -      Net Material Product
PFP          -      Policy Framework Paper
PIP          -      Public Investment Program
PIJ          -      Project Implementation Unit
PIT          -      Albanian Telecoms
RCB          -      Rural Commercial Bank
SB           -      Savings Bank
SBA          -      State Bank of Albania
SOE          -      State-Owned Enterprise
TA           -      Technical Assistance
ALBANIA-FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICILk USE ONLY
RIPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
- USE MANI VD4NCIAL SECTOR ADWMENT CRBDIT
T1W ef C.mtzse
CREDIT,AND PR.OGRAM SUIMMARY .........                 .................  i
I.NTRODUCTION ............. ..- I
IL. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEVORK             ...................................  2
A. ASuocessfidSt hation ...-..                                             .2
B.    AGOowtSceario*t199497                                             .,  S
B.    AFSACdi iShomalo fory 199I9  ..........I........................... -7
C.    EPSAC in tho Banks Assistance Strategy...... 
m. EBTERPRISE SECTOR    -..                           .................-           8
A.e The Crnts  SStat .r.f.......Sector                                 *    8
B.    Government Stateagy to Dd wih the Enteprise S   e     .to      r      9
C.    Go..i        Reform Pogram .                                         11
1. Reducing Budgetay Support for Larp SOEs ..................... 11
?. Resucturig and Privazatdon of SOEs ........................ 12
3. Imprving Monitorg and Coordination of Prvadzatkn Proes.. ...... 16
IV. FINANCIAL SBCTOR ...........................................  16
A.    The Structne of the BakngSe   ............................  16
B. Issues inkSector Reform. .17
C. The Reom Program .19
1. ;.9. 
2. Reform and Restruing of the Sta-Owned Banks. .20
3. FadUtatIng t Entry of Prte    nnd Devoping NonBank Fiani
Irttuim22
A. iSA       ................................................................ 22t
4. Strengtheing Bank Infrastuctur~e...............23
V. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENTERPRISE AND FNANCL SECTR .                    .......... 24
VI. PROJECT COORDINATION AND  IMPLEMENTATION .....               ................  25
VIL. TlE PROPOSED CREDIf ......................................... 25
A. Credit Amounadd Boroe .25
B.  Credit Desi3n and Components.                                          25
C. TranhRlYRdeuCokmsiti3. .26
^ ~~~~~D.   Lendingand AdnmusM                    AraSngeseents .............26
E.                          ...................................    26
F.   e and Disbursents .27
G. Pro........ 27
R.  Acounts id Auit .................. 28
L                 As        R.Envsemsm.A _  Rlq fi mnb 28
1. Beefitsand Risks .28
VMI. REtCOMMENDATION .................                                            29
Annex A: Letterof Development Poey . .............................  31
Annex : PolicyMtix .............................. 43
AnnexC: StaticaTabla .............................                                49
Anme D: rimeableofKeyPProeuingEves ................5............. 
AnmexE: StausofBnkGroup Opeaiom in AUnla .............5..............  S7
doumnt has  a  edsdiutulbon and ma be su by ncpien  ony in the pdbok
Rs coW Mid0 odwwie              _ ber aditosed wibth_t Wodd BaMk ,au, w_am



REUBUC OF ALBANIA.
- -- ENTR   E AND FINANCLAL   COR ADJUSTMENT CRED                  -
CREI)IT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowr.            Republic of Albania
Amount              SDRIO.6 million (US$15 million equivalent)
- rnon1             40 yeas including 10 years of grace period, on standard IDA terms
Dcrtlr              The proposed cedit is supporting the developmeat of a banking system
condtued privaization n the idustrial secor and decisive downsizing or
liquidation of inviable sutae enprises.
Beefi
and Risks:          After succesful stabilizaton and the vigorous emergence of small-scale private
service activities, the hallenge for Albaia now is to create the legal and
insutional framrk for a market economy. The set of inter-related mesures
supported by this credit should falit  the development of fomal banking,
incuding private banking activities, thereby allowing private sector investmn
beyond small family-finaced businesses. The privadzation and remucuing
measures supported by the credit should help to radically downsize the old
industrial sector, while helping to atta  foreign capital for new venues
reflecting the country's comparative advantage. "e risks are related mainly to
the still-weak instittional strucures of the new  Albania, ad limited
iplemeion caacities iu the public adInistration.  These risks bave been
addressel by encouragn a clear and simple policy fraework and providn a
good dtal of technical assistance through accmpaying projects (Techial
Assisnce Project for Economic Reform  and the Tax Adminis
Modernization Project).
Fsdiated
SDR10.6 milion (US$15 mldlion equivalent) of the credit would be disurd m
two tranches; fis, SDR5.3 million (US$7.5 mfllion equivalent), mpon credi
effectiveness which is expected in August 1994, and second, of SDR5.3 million
(US$7.5 million equivalent), in the second half of 1995.



Report and R           on of the esddent of the
Ao tbe lbeuve D - etogs
n a Propsed hiteprla and F      9nnca Sector
-4jiutn -Cre. 
to the Repubdi of Albaia
I- NTRODUCTON
1.   XThe demise of ommunism over-1990-92 was-accompanied by  onomic-and policali caos in
Albana, and the collapse of industr  output was more extreme than in most of Eastn Europe. This
reslted in a fiscal crisis of vnprecedented dimensions with mo     inflation climbing to the 10 to 15
percent range. Despite these extremely difficult starting conditions, in mid-1992 the new Albaian
Gove     t embarked on a very courageous stablization progrm. Although the fiscal siation   s
fragile, macroeconomic stability has been established, and the first signs of a new and dynamic private
sector are begnning to emerge. In fact, 1993 has turned out to be an excellent year in terms of economic
performance: inlation was close to 30 percent and GDP growth was above 10 pacent, a combination
that few would have pdicted a year earlier. Good macroeconomic pefomac has contued in the
first half of 1994. Growth should be in the 8 to 9 percent range for the year, and inlation should remain
under control. This is a remakable reboud, but only a small fist step in a muich longer journey.
2.    The tasks ahead are daunting and involve noting short of building a new economy: esntily,
Albaia has abandoned central planing without the instutions, expte or infrastruce requred for
a well-funtioning market economy. The needs for reform are enormous and encompass aU sectors of the
economy. At the same time, implmnation of the reforms is costrained by the limited dministrative
capacity of the authorities, and by the low level of per capita income, which make the popuation
particularly vulnerable to temporary income losses linked to adjusutent mers.
3.    On the other hand, the speed and vigor of private entrepreseurial response to Albania's opening
and liberalizing has been much beter than expected. Compared to a year ago, the Albanian countryside
and cities have changed considerably. Goods of all kinds have become available, investme  in trade,
services, and constuction are beginning to gain momem; and an icreasing munber of foreig private
investors are showing interest in Albania. Agricultural products frm the newly privatized farms have
begun reaching urban centers in modest quantites. In the countryside, private contactig firms that
supply mechanized production services with tractors and harvesters have been established. In urban
areas, tnade actvity was the first to develop, with the help of the newly privatized truck and retail shops.
Commer  was facilitated by the remittances of Albanian workers living and woding abroad, providing
enough purchasig power for the expansion of trade activity from basic foodst  to durable consumer
goods.
4.    A decisive commiment by the political leadedhp to reform, constaind by weak administratve
infrastructure to support the reforms, but complemented by a remarkable entrepreneuial spilit in
agdculture, trade and sall-wscale entise chrdacteiz  the situamion in 1994. The poliy priorides are:
public finance reform to consolidate de results of the sabiliztion and to rebuild the ifrtrcur
necessary to support private sector developmet; privatizaon and rsnr ing of the state enterprise and
banking sectors to support the budgetary consolidtion, tansf  scarce cpi  resour  to the private



2
sector, and allow the development of a viable fina l sector; support for smallscale private inidadves
througbout society and specific e£forts to develop Albnia's natural endowmen  in agriculture, mieral
and  water resources. The nx section of the m ndum describes the Governmets stabiliaton
progra, present a medium term adjustmet straegy, and discusses the role of enterprise and financial
sector reform in the overall reform program.
=I. MACROECONOMC FRAMEWORK
'A.    A SuieceusM Stabilizatio
5.    The abolition of the plan in laie 1991, without a new allocaton mechal nim is-kce, led to
economic chaos. Supply constaints, combined with widespread labor unrest, res'rted in a 'cline im
industal production of over 70 pernt in 1991-92. Agriculural produr  a also i-ppo: rapidly, as
the brealkown of iWput and output distrbion channels resulted in shortages of iputs and equipent.
Witth this dramatic supply collapse, Albania plunged into a fiscal crisis of unprecedented dimesions, even
in Eastern Europe. The state enterprise sector provided the bulk of the tax base, and when it collapsed,
fiscal revenues deeased drastically, frm over 44 percent of GDP in 1989 to about 16 percent of GDP
in the first half of 1992. At the same time, control over most categories of public expenditures virtally
disappeared. Govenmen expendtu  rose to about 58 percent of GDP in the first half of 1992, with
the deficit exploding to 42 percent of GDP. Monetary financing of the deficit and passive etension of
credit to state enterprises by the banking system pushed monthly inflation into the 10 to 15 percent range
in early 1992. The high inflation and the collpse of producion in export e   sectors led to the
vrual exhaustion of foreign exchange reserves. Albania, which used to be a net exporter of food
products, became heavily dependent on food aid.
6.    In mid-1992, the newly elected Govemment launched a progrm to restore public order and
eomic sabDization, supported by a rapid mobilization of tenational aid that included a 12 nth
Stand-By Armgement with the Intenational Monetary Fund (MP) in July 1992; a thre-year
arrangement under the Enhanced Strutura Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of the IMe which began in July
1993; balance of payments ad emergency support orgnized under the auspices of the EU/G24; and
critical imports and strucr adjusmnt credit from the World Bank.
7.    The core of the adjustment was fscal consoldation. Public expenditures were reduced by the
equivalent of 22 perentage points of GDP between mid-1992 and 1993, mainly through cuts in enteprise
subsidies and operations and maitenance. Expendir  on the socia safety net were kept constant
rdative to GDP by streamlining and better targeting of the benefits. On the revenue side, taixes were
incrsed by 6 percge points of GDP between mid-1992 and 1993, trough inhduction of excise
axes and broadning of the trnover tax base. As a resut, the ratio of the deficit to GDP fell from 44
percent in the first half of 1992 to 16 pen in 1993. Taking into account foreign finacing, domestic
financing of the budget fell from 42 Percent of GDP in the first half of 1992 to 10 percent in 1993.
8.    These radical measures were translated into a tight montaypolcy: the ratio of broad money to
GDP fell from 54 percent at mid-1992 to 38 percent at end-1993. There was a severe contraction of
credit to state enterprises: the total volume of such credit remained consta in nominal tenrs tharghout
1992-93, which resuIted in a 52 percent real cmulative decline over a year and a half. From a very
small base, credi to the private sector inra  at a very fast pace throughout the period. As a result



3
of this policy, the stnuce of net domestic credt bad radiallly changed at end-1993, from mid-1992:
the budget'a share incased from 54 to 70 percent, credit to state enterprises fell from 42 perceat to 22
r     and credit to the private sector &ncased from 4 to 8 percent.
9.    On the strutu ide, the stabilizadon program included price reform, exchange and trade system
lializaton, bWng  fom, and privatizatio. Most of the price controls were- dematd. The
excaSe market was unified, pdvate echag transactions leglied, current acoount trusac
lberize, and export and imort lcensig requiremet elmiated or reduced. The fir efforts towad
the development of a two-tier banking system were taken with the  ip  of the laws on centrl
and commercial banking operatn d pursued tough tencal assistance programs for the ituonal
deveopment of the cetral bank anl commercial bank. Te distibution of most agriculual land was
compleod by end-1993, while small scale privatzationproceeded at a brisk pace throughou the period.
10.   The resus of the prvgmm, parteilarly in view of the difficult saring conditions, are much
better than expected. In early 1994, iftion has abated to less than 2 pecent a month. The nominal
exchne rate appreciated over the summer of 1992, followig the init  depreciation associated with the
hberalization of the exchange market, and has remained stable since the fail of 1992. Foreign exchange
reserves have increased to about 2 months of imports. Real( GDP growth, led by private sector activity,
is estimated to have reahed 11 percent in 1993. The largest contbtion came from the agricultural
sector, which is estimated to have grown by 14 percent. Albana has now practically weaned itself from
food aid, with domestic producon and private imports expected to cover most of domestic consumptn
in 1994. Growth in the construction, transportation, and service setuwrs has been even more rapid than
in agricuture. As a result, open urba unemployment had fallen to less than 15 percent by end-1993,
after reaching a peak of about 30 percent in April 1993. Most importy, the social consensus has held,
despite the severity of the stabilizaion program: in a survey taken in mid-1993, two out of three
Albanissupted the creation of a maret economy 'largely free from state control".-
I1.   The exten of povert remains a serious problem, however, although the paucity of data prevents
a more in-depth asesment. Under the previous regime, the low level of income across the board was
to some etent com satd for by epod overall access to basic health amd education. With the chaos
that followed the tansition of 1991-92, access to social services deteriorated, and pockts of exteme
poverty have emerged, especially in remote rural areas.
1     USIA            sunvwy conducted by the Indepeden Ceer of Socilogical Shtudes in Tirana.



4
UGM  1 ALIANA RY MACROECCONOMC RICATORS (191-9#3
on= OmWtO productbt* (imI~u" bad$)
-no
as~~~~~~~~~~~u
us
au -~V Wda _ 
u   .                             .
|w ed tOVUMW UgWrb_, Wadd B_A* and                   ts, ibf  t__"
.  U
~I  .     W    04    aS    OeS-  0.0            L'  /             0.
P.d.0               _ _mud DW  h.IgMibt^ oag m. udopmo
U~~~~~~W    
1,_
* D^_bzbd$rbuh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U      1      W
S U,             o d      S   Pbfs



B.    A Growth Sceari for 19447
12.   The chaflenge now is to tr the arly success of the stabiization program into long team non-
nflaionay grovth. This  ction presets a medium trm  - i       c    ework based on  e
performance of 1992-93, and discusses the vaious policies and assumptions underlying this scnaio.
Fially, it examnes in more detil the relaon between   oonomic austmen and structral rform
in the enterprie and financial sectors.
13.   lhe Government has adopted, through a Policy Frmwo  Paper (PFP) negotiaed with the
World Bank and the IMP in mid-1993, an ambitious program of reforms for the period 1993-96. Ihe
scenario pretd- it this secton is an update of the PFP scrio prepared in mid-1993. In view of the
weak statsalbis and the tmdow stum al cnga curtytaking place ie country, medium
term m c           projections can only be a tentaive exercise. Nevertheless, they have to be
atempted in order to asse s the consistncy of the variou policies and objecdves.
14.   Under current assumptions, growth would stabilize on a trend of about 6 percent a year in the
second half of the 1990's, after another year of vigorous output easion in 1994 (close to 8 pecent).
The economy's expansion would be private-sector-based and come mainly from continued progess in
agrculture, development of Albaia's mineral and energy resources, and stong growth of small-scale
adivities in services and  ing. The expsion of the new private sector is expected to genert
rew job opportunities that would more than compensate for future lay-offs in remaining SOBs, therby
avoiding the resurgence of a bulge in unemployment. Inflation would continue to fall over the period
and would reach the 10-15 percent range in the late 1990s. This fail in inflation would be supported by
a major fiscal effort, wih the fiscal deficit fling from 16 percet in 1993 to 7 percent of GDP at the
end of the projection period. Domestic financing of the deficit would be reduced to 2 perceat of GDP,
aainst 10 percent in 1993; 5 percent would still come froia foreign aid. Such an adjustment would
require strong actions both on th expendiure and on the reve sides: revenues would rise by three
peentg points of GDP and expendt     would fall by seven peentage points of GDP ov  1994-97
(see Table 2.1).
t5.   W'ith the fiscal conttion envisaged under the program, gross national savings are projected to
rise over the medium term to about 8 percen of GDP from dssaving equiaent to about 22 percent of
GDP in 1993. Government savigs would rise to 1 percent of GDP in 1997 from dissavings of 9 percent
of GDP in 1992. On the other hand, the gowti objectives under the pogram  would requir
governmenl investment flows of about 14 pet   of GDP on average, reflecting the urgent need to
rebild infrastructure. Public investent will have to play an impoan role in  ceasng ovea
inem         levels. To this efect, the Goverm , in collaboration wih the World Bank, has developed
a Public Investmemt Program PI) for 1994-96.      set foxth a o ehnsive three-year satey for
invesmnt m infisuue and pubic utilities. This strategy was presented to the donor community
at the 0-24 High Level Meeting on Albania on November 16-17, 1993. Satsfactory progress in
Implmenting an updad and agreed 1995-1997 PIP is a conliion of second &aniae reease of this
credit.
16.   With the strong fiscal adjustmet, the curet acwmt deficit is projected to dedine from US$394
million in 1993 to US$280 million in 1997. This improvement is based on a yearly growth of exos
cloS to 20 percent in rea tem. Stag from exetonaly low level, this would bing exports back
to about the pre-crbis level of convertible currency ewpors by 1996, based on recovety of miners,



6
ene, agriculhtre, and small scale anu    ing. Total imports would increase moderatly as private
imp  would rplac emergency aid.
Tal ..2.1: A  aseCase6Git Se_Ub  1994-1*7
proj-o
1993   1994    1995    1996   1997
GDP rowtli                      11      8        7       6      6
Illtlaoncendpeaw                31      18      12      iO      11
Mony(%  }che)
rdt                             47      31       2      s 20    17
To the Publisectw               36      32      1.'      4       2
Budget                          55     41       A        5       3
PublicEnerpie h2                        2        2       0       0
To the Privte sector           292      23     145      81      49
PubLc Fnance (%GDP)
Overal balace                  -16    -17      -13      -9     -7
Domeslic finang                 10      9        4       2       2
Forc fip&anig                    6      9        9       7      S
Balance of paymens
Current Account Balance        -12    -18      -16    -15    -14
Reserve accumation (USSM)       19     40       25      20      1S
I Rerve (weew of imports}       13      17      18      19      19
17.   The strong fiscal adjushtent that underlies the hypotheses of the progrm is a key condition for
consolidating the growth with stability that Albania bas achieved in 1993 and 1994. Ther are etea
and i=ernal risks that prograr 'age can ocr, which wotdd endanger the macroeconamic program
as well as the program of reforms supported by the proposed EFSAC. Extemal risks include the
imda_te geo-political instility of the region, particularly in areas such as Kosovo and FYR Macedonia
where ethic Albanians are direcdy involved. This could lead to unpredictable developmets, with the
possible loss of m   onomic contl that would, in tun, neessate a revision of the World Bank
supported programs. These extemal rsks are beyond the govements control. Itermal risks inchde
political pressure to ease up on monetay and fiscal discipline. However, this risk is limited. The
economy is grwing rapidly, with significantjob catio in the epand    private sector, and the worst
Of the unemployment bulge expected to be over. Moreover, the Govermnent has a tack record of fiscal
discipline. For these two rasons, the commitmnt of the Govenmuent to a tough fiscal stanc required
during the execution of the budget over the coming years is credible. In particular, the Govement ha
indicated that it would take corrective action, both on the revenue and the expenditur sides, if this were
to become necesary due to unexpected revemne shortfalls. Continued satsfctoy performae of the
macreconmic program is a condition of second  wche rdease of this credit.



7
18.   The medium term outlook remains overshadowed by the kuge eernal debt left over frm the
communist regime. Albania bas requestod the use of an IDA - Debt Reduction Facalty for te buy-back
at a deep discoun- of its commercial bank debt. The Facility will provide for the financing of legal and
finacial advis  and for part of the cost of the buy-back. Discussions with commercial banks are
underway and the Govermm   is actively seeking co-fianing to Pid the opeation.
19.   Based on the above scenario, preliminary estimates of flnandng requirements over 1994-97
amount to US$1.3 billion-including the costs of the debt resolution. For extenal viability to be a
realistic goal by the end of the 1990s, the projected gaps would have to be met on higy concessional
tems and the large external arears problem muw be resolved in a manner comatle with Albania's
exceptionally weak external position. Most of the flmding is expected to U provided on cessional
terms:and to:come from IIDA, IMP, EU, and G24, maindy as.project fincing.
20.   The reform program now undet impleion gives the counry the chance to lift itself out of
poverty, and the small-scale, rural-based nature of the supply response holds good promise for a broadly
based expansion. Nevertheless, there remains a need to streamline the existing programs compiDsg the
safety net, ensuring that the exemely limited finances available are dhanmlled to the most needy. To
tis effect, the Government is in the process of reformig both tht pension and the social assistance
programs, with emphasis on local management of resources. With the help of intermational donors and
the World Bank. the Government is also considering the itroduction of self-targeting programs,
addessed to the most vulnerable sectors of society.
C.    EFMAC I the Bank's Asdstance Sttegy
21.   The Bank's assistance strategy for Albania was preseted in the CAS dated September 14, 1993.
It outlines the Bank's support for the establishment of a fuctioning market economy in Albania, fiscal
consolidation, recovery of sustainable economic growth, and measures to alleviate poverty. The EPSAC
would deal with interdependenter     and financial sector issues. It would contrbute to progress in
ng . a ,rivatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which would be crucial for phasing out
inefficient production, cutt  back the fiscal burden of support to inefficiet enterprises, and solving the
bad debt portfolio in the baning system, as well as for encouging private initiative in areas where
Albania has a comw  -ative advantage. At the same time, resu ring of the banking system would
progressively establiba efficient intermediation of resouces to compentive entepris  in the productive
sectors. The principal impact of the enterprise compone  would be felt most directly in containig fiscal
expenditures, and generating output on a competitive basis. These, together with improved banking
practices, would lead to incrLased economic activity, which in tum, would improve the country's fragile
fiscal skuation, ths increasing the availability of rources for productive use by the private sector. The
EFSAC wil also conbute to poverty reduction, by providing a strong impets to broad-based, private
sector driven growth. It should help reduce the potential pressure of SOEs and state-owned banks ot the
budget in the medium term, thereby freeing resources for key socW programs.
22.   In view of the institutional weakness of public ad aion, as well as the complexity of the
problems in the enterprise and fincial sectors which are linked to insufficient undendig of the needs
of a market economy, it is very likely that the program suported by EFSAC will only begin to lay the
ground for a durable reform in those sectors, and that change wil take time. Nevertheless, the
commiment of the Goverment to carry out the program elaborated during the preparation of the EFSAC
is high, as is its understanding of the centralit of these issues to the fie welfre of Albaia and her
population.



M. ENTERPRSESECTOR
A. ''     Cwen Srcte o  wthe EnerireseSct
23.   After the demise of the pmrvious economic and politica regime In 1992, the Abnian entprise
sector fond itself in a deep cisis. Outdated technology, limited market knowledge, overrst     and
the chaotic owaship and icentiv sitnaion made it impossible for SOEs to mae any rapid justment
to now poducts or markaes. The fin  position of SOEBs deterioratd raly, retg in growin
interee aras and inability to service debt.- However, the decine of the state sector was partly
compenated by the rpid growth of small-se (and largely informal) privawe activities in retai tade
handicrafts small-se constrction, and services.
24.   Rapid growth of prirate sevices combined with the rapid expansion of the prva  secor in
agricuture, was facilitaed by a strong conmm     on the part of the Goverment to suo  private
sector growth and to disengage the State from productive economic activities. However, by vire of
their s, remaning SOEs still conol a large porion of Albana's non-agiculu  asse and output.
By mid-1993 their number bad peabed at about 2,000, due to reureffons (particularly in agro-
procesing and light industry) to make them more manageable and prepare them for privatition. Since
June, 1993, te Govement has acted to quickly privatize small- and medium-ze entrprises, most of
which have been sold to ex-employees.
25.   While SOBs cover a variety of setors, the industria sector (Incuding n rin, mining,
mneral processing, power generation and distribution) has been the most prominent, and includes almost
al of the most serious problem cases. Industrial SOEs encompass a broad range of activities reflect
Albania's previous autarci development policies rather than the economy's comparative advantage. In
1990, industrial production (including agro-industry) accounted for 42 pemet of Albania's Gross
Domestic Product (GDP), absorbed 42 pecent of gross investnent, provided employment for 23 percstt
of the worklig populba , and supplied an overwhelming 75 percent share of Albania's total exports
(primarily from the mining sector). By 1993, industrid production had fallen to only 14 percent of GDP.
This fall in production was ace d by significant labor reductio.
26.   Before the demise of centra planning,    rcostiued the largest par of the industria
sector, contrbuti 78 perce of to  industr  production in 1990. While it contue to be the largest
compoent of this sector, the share of n     has fallen to 60 percent in 1993, given the collapse
of the mehaurcal and other heavy industry sub-sectors.  Important and growing branches of
manfatuI  are the conumion-oiented light and food industries geared to the domestic make (52
percent of mg in 1993), and to a lesser extent, heavy industry, reflecting the previous
Government's efforts to promote self-sufficiency in the production of basic metallurgical and cmical
products, spare parts ad equmnt (18 percent of manfuring in 193 having fallen frm 31 percen
in 1990). Other key industdr sub-ects include energy, whidh    e  oil and gas prodtion and
elict genratio, primariy from hydropower, and mg, which has focused on the production
%ad export of dhomium, copper and ferro-nickel ore.
2     The minig secr has been hit hard by   d ee    of fom  makes in Eastern Europe, and by
num_rous shotages of inputs such as explosives, replaement pas, and trucks. Much of the sector today
is not competitive in inmaion markets.



27.   Table3.1  lustrstrends       o lutoupuom 1989tough 1993. While the table displays
dwthlarg decline. In outpu acro  sectos, sonic setors hav recvere Iomprssvely sh dinete middle of
1992, especiay giW  the lack of financn. Sectms for which data is uawvlable such as contuct
and agro-intus , seem to be booming. Moreov, imported iutri  Ipt ad ot   foms of
foreign dirct Invstme  have led to inreaed out   in some  i     and other heavy Industial
operationas wel as chemica and lig dustrie.
Table3$: IuumboW Outpu qt.deu  I'roduets
1"Om     "       im       1993
Crude 011         4~~~-55  -20*4   -30.8     -3.7
Nafuul Goa               4.3    -42.0    -27.0   -49.6
cod                      5.6    -47.5    .6.3    -33A.
Cho ,iu on Or8o.2    -41.9   -45.1                 -2-
Chromium Concenu         -9.8    43.6   -44.3       2.0
F     _rochtome         41.0.     8.7    -12.0     40.6
Capper Ore             -18.1    -39.7    47.2       6A
DUster Cpper           -20.0    -58.3    -54.0     33.3
CapperWire             -33.3    -75.0    -75.0     74.9
Phosphab                -14.5   -69.5    47.9    -5SA
Urea                    -2.2   -68.9    -31.4      19.4
Cement                  -14.5    -52.9    -35.2     1.5
Knlwea                   -9.1    40.0    -46.7     37.5
Shoes                    0.0    -66.7   -40.0      36.7
Source: Msuy of dusyt, Mies. and BEy and World Bsiik staff
esm.
a Nme mondhs daft annaized.
L      G.vemzr  tatq  to el wth the    wr Secw
28.   Mme ,tw democrtc govm          tid early on to eaborat, a statey to dea wh the disastrs
siuation of the enterprs sector it inherted. Mme stategy, whi  em   d as a resut of ongoing
d*        wih World Bank team as well as some trial and error, has ended up emphasizing two main
elemen. Frst, the goverment bega to enfrce a had budget constai.  ary an it stopped most
subsidis tha had prvio y boen giW  to the ateprses, an!d Itucted banks to cea  lendg   to SOEs.
As dicussed this policy wu  quite effecv  in acceerati  the ivable lquio  of seveal
entrrs, and prevend a long, daged-on peiod of ba g  between indiviu  enterrises and
the Stae that has been observed in ote former socidis ecomie. Ie second elm     wa the
darifiato  of ownership and govane in the SOE sector before prva             In July 1992,
Palianient adopted the Law on State Entepris, whih reafm  the rights of the State as owner and
requires SOBs to compete wilh private busis  on a ved playin fild. The law establihes stuctures
for          an ad supeviien that areountable to the Govement But the cenal tenet of the
g_vennt stae-which recgnzed the instiuto  wnal           of the Albania stae and hrefre the
ImpossIbIiby of eercising state govemance In the medim term-so became he deci   to prvatize



10
as mny SOEs as possiole. using a decentraiz  process, rather than tryiog tover-mna  from the
29-.   Te elaboration and execution of the sr    was not easy, and certany not a linear process.
SOQs reacted to the imposition of a hard budget constraint in a variety of ways, the most drmatic of
which was the rapid accumulation of inter-enterprise arrears dat grew rapidly to about 33 percent of GDP
in 1992 and completely clogged the antiquaed payments ytem. Thi process was succs y aetd
by the adoption in Januay 1993 of a new in-enrprise payments mechanism. All enterprise account
wer fon and clims were netd out, leav    et ier- prise arrea  Of L&k.9 biiom (4 percent
of a_cn system credit to terbpes at d-1992). The exercise of govenace by goverment agcies
was made difficult by lack- of human captal -and expert; in addion, as time wen by, instances of
indi   bargaining by enrprie to obtin subsidies or loans bega to eme. Thee was lso
considale delay and uncertainty in deciding on a strategy to deal with the enterprises most sensitive
fim an eomic and social viewpoint.
30.   Aside from the quick-and total-privatiaon of agrculture, which has been one of the main
de tas of the impressive supply ronse of 1993, the highest degee of success was register  in
the area of small-scale privadition, under the Decree 248, enacted in May 1993. The decree established
procedures inten   to rapidly privatize approximately 1,200 small- and mediuized entpri-fm
of less than 300 employees and/or US$500,000 equivalent of book value-and itoduced auctions as the
main technique for privtiion. Keeg in mind the limited instittional apacity, the auctions were
decentalize to the local level. Loca agents of line ministries, familiar with the enteprise, established
the book value of the etepris  and aisted district branches of the National Agny for Pvazation
(NAP) in setting up the auctions.
31.   Recent data shows that in most of the cases of privatzation under Decree 248 (over 750 as of
May 1994), the praized unit was sold to a single intsted pty through direct sale. In the remainin
cases, units were sold dtrough exemption or auctions. The absence of more than one bidder was
prhimaly due to lack of interest in the units being offered for sale. In half the cases assets were sold to
employee, and most sales were made at or about book vahle.
32.   While the pnvatization of smaller units has proceeded relatively quicldy, a mbmher of complex
issues remain to be resolved in the enterprise sector. Large SOBs, which stll represet an important part
of the non-agrilual economy, have not yet been privadzed. The Govermnent must decide an a
pivation strategy for these companies; reinorce the weak legal fmwork with stronger and clearer
laws on private ownehip of land and property, acuti, bakuptcy, and loan recovery; and setle
a number of insttutonal issues regarding the role of line ministries in state enterprise managemen and
control and privaiton. Line minisies cuendy direct the pivataon of smaller SOEs, and NAP
bas little authority to coordinate and regulate the programs of dift ministries. In addion, valuation
of SOEs' assets coanues to be a problemaic area for privatization.
33.   As in other couies, the Goverment has been confrntd with the problem of deaing with a
nmnber of large and politically sensitive enterpries that cannot easily be prvaized in their present
condition. After considerale thought and with the help of technical assistance from the World Bank, the
Govemestablisd m July 1993 a special vehicle-the Enterprse Retuun Agency (ERA)-which
reports diectly to the Council of Misters. The task of ERA is to deal with the 32 most problemadc
and large SOEs, those whic require managei  and financia assise pror to privatizain, or which
should be closed down. The Agency began operations at the end of 1993, and by March 1994, had built



11
a competet team of Albania eqe  suppoted by en    advors.   e objeWive of the team Is to
rapidly initiate and impleent privatization or liquidation plans for enterw     in ia portfolio. It 18
plne that the IBRA will complete its work i.e. prhmiz or liquidate aU 32 SOEs in its porflio in three
years.
34.   In implementig ht hard-budget consaint stategy, the Govermment has made subani efforts
to circumscribe those entprises which would have access to very limited resoure. Nevertheless, some
lossgerating SOEs. witbh lItle prospect for conted operations  der market conditions, conte-to
receive budget transfers though m rial conservation fluds". Politcal pssure fom  mstries on
state banis to provide financig to SOEs an non-commrcial crteria persists. The Government statgy
to be suored by EFSAC now aims to -eiminat sucfh problems by establishing dear criteia for-
fmanci relations between SOEs not yet privatized and the budget, thus ensuring that public funds and
baking system resorc  are opUtay utized.
C.    Govenent Refonm Progra
35.   Ihe Governmen took advantage of the preparation of EFSAC to reassess the stategy to dea with
the SOE sector, as discsed above. The ultmate objective rem    that of foeig development of a
song and efficient private sector, in all areas of the economy, incuding largeentises, resource-based
sand uilities. The program supported by the proposed EPSAC contnues the actions discsed
abve, and introduces necessary adjustmens to accelerate prinvatzat   or liquidation of as many
enterprises as possible. The program is thus based on three main areas of action: (i) steamlning
budgetary support for SOBs, by clearly identifying which enterprises are to be allowed access to publc
resources and under which conditons; (Hi) restuctrng and privatzing of SOEs, including use of ERA
for orderly downsizing and prepation for privatization of a mber of socially important SOBs; and (iii)
impovng monitoring and coordination of the priation process. Each of these points i reviwed in
tun.
1. Reduing Budgety Supportfor Large SOF&
36.   As of end-1992, a numer of large SOEs, which were not targeted for rapid priatizai on under
Decree 248 conltiuied to receive state subsidies and guarante. The largest of these entaprs
reresented the mining, oil and gas, and textle seco. As the Govemet worked to reduce its deficit,
budget tansfers to the large SOEs were reduced, forcing many of these entrpries to lay off workers
and shut down operations. Govemment acUon must now be taken to prepe these compnis for
pivaoton whie their asses may still be of vahle to interested Investors. Govermeat resources will
be made availabe only under three clearly defined routes. FR, fundg will be provided, witbin the
budget envelope, for projects included in PIP and executed in part or in whole by SOEs. Seond, the
budget will provide limited funds as agreed with the World Bank and IME, directly targeted for the
operation of ERA, which will be used for the execution of the rt n and dow nsiznludation
plas. hbrd, the budget will provide some very limited operatig subsidies to selected key utilities that
are sdll loss makers because of the level of tariffs during the period leadig to the establshment of cost-
covering prices. Effective January 1, 1995, the Goverment wil limit the use of conservation funds to
SOBS in BRA or included explicitly in PIP; and opeating subsidies to SOEs in ERA, PIP and selected
uilities. This will be a conditon of second *che rdeae of this credit.



12
37.   N othrpulicresources walbeprovedtoay rmaing SOEs. Moreover, the Government
passed a decsion pro      BoA, MoF and line ministries ftom eeding any guanee to loans by
bank to SOEs, goverme agencies or private entities. Successful implementation of this policy wil
be a condition of swed bwwhe rde     of this credit. Diagram 3.1 provides a graphic illustro of
SO, expected source of their fundig, and the prvatization strategy oudined in tbe refonu program
of EPSAC.
2. Resmicwrng ad Pivadzaion of SOEs
38.   As diarm 3.1 ilstae, the Government has conceptually divided tbe SOE-sector into thre
separate sem, depeoding on the nate and prospects of the eatises involved. For each of these
se$ b, it will adopt a saegy a  wil am t aieving  vatioas qucky as possible. The three
segments include: (i) strategic" SOEs (ntural resourcessd entprises and public utlities); (ii)
ctprses belonging to ERA beca    of the particularly difficult nature of their problems; amd (iii) all
other ewprises. The nex few pargrhs discss the Goverment's sey in each case.
39.   Group 1 - Publc Uities and Rsource-Based SOEs. This  oup includes 50-60 SOEs which
have the greatest poteni value to the economy, sch as public utilities, and the oil and gas, chrme,
and copper sectors (see Box 3.1). lhe Gvernment is cwnted to the eventualprivatzaton fmost of
these enterpnses. For resource,based ehlnt , international assistance is being sought to prepare
individua privadiaon staegies, aimed at atact  foreign investors or partmers. Joint venus have
already been establishd on a limted scale, and others are currently being negotiated. Budgetary funds
wil be provided to this group of enrpries only to the extent that their investments are included in the
annual investment budget of the central govenmen as agreed with the World Bank. As discussed, for
public utilities that may now not be able to cover opeating costs because of current levels of administered
prices, the budge will provide, in a tanspaent manner, operating subsidies. Reforms dwoughou the
economy and within the utlities to improve services and increase collections should lead to lower
subsidies over time.3
3     KESH, for emple, b woring to impov collections and meen, with World Bak assin.
Eleicity pries have been raised radicay fiom an average of less that 1 cew per kwH to aost4 cts
per kwH a o f prl1,1994, cue of the mo Drdi  price h  anywhere in the region.



!irm  ' $3.1:        r     f Than   to                    E
meo  f h4                  ..               .... . IlnaucB 'dgew   n..,ug System
Source of financing   Public Investme              Entpri  Resructuing Agency           Nadonal Commercial           National Commercial
Program  (                                   )                   Bank      3/                 Dauk       31
Small and medium
Type of entrprise     Naural Resource- Based       Problem Statewned                    Other large State-Owned          Ste-Owned Enrprlas
and Utilhies (Goup 1)       Eatris  (owp 2)                      Enepris  (Group 3A) 41                 (Group 3)
Main secors           Udtlties/Public Works        Texile                               Garms
Ralroads/Forts              Coal                                 Lumber
Oil & Gas                   Paper                                Carpet
COPPcr                                                           Ag   .deustry
Telecom
NmberofSOUs                    50-60    1/                          32                               40                        SO)  2/
asofMay1994                                                                                                                                               w
Pdvatizaione- ysgc  mptjd to                       Rstuct    with                       NAP-led privamzation         Decree 248
me6hods               be devdoped;                 privaizadontjoint venture;
Possible investment bank    If not feasible, closure.
paUticipation               liquidation
1/ Iclues large sbsidiaires
2J Bank saff esdmnses.
31 Wihbout se quarne; no financing of new ivesnmeuts.
4/ B_epise wih asset exceeding US$500,000. and employment higher than 300.



14
SBa 3.1    m troi, The OR and  as Setrw Hoding Compa
.  *   During the transition from ceonal planig to &e market econo.my,  selct group Of POttal  proalo
enterprises _o      to receive budget- resouces as wel- as  v         bank lnae. Wile dest   for
privatization. these compaies have been able to maintain modest operating babaces, and have been able to socure forn
finacig. In early 1992, the Governme  esablished several sector holding companies which bodd more than 60
enrpris  employing more tha 40,000 employees with a book value ofmore than US$40 milion.
*    -AlbPetol, the largest of the three, has 23 subsidaries with more thn 20,000 employees and a book value of
more thn US$24 -milion. Inludod in these subsids are refinies seveal drlling and explorao companies.
pumping stations machine parts It¢Sma s, pipe manufactus, etc. Yet the actu  holngs of AbPtol may be
umb larger. The holdi  company controls a aspecs of petroleum producuon and makteig so its holi   would
also mclde transport equpment     a      nudX aintenace, and whosale and re  disribu . A etol ba
entered a number of joint veues witb foreign oi companies to rehabilitate curt opeatis, as well as to explore
possible off-shore reserves. Due to te lack of a centalized sae enterpise auditing or contol agency, AlbPetol, like
the other holding companies, has been able to spread budget resources granted trough  ans or tansfers to its dfferet
subsidiaries, regadiss of performance. There vas a very real danger of tn:rs being misalocated on secondary and
terty operatons, rather than being directly spent on vit investents. Such trafers wil now be dicontiud except
in so far as they are programmed and agreed as part of the PIP.
40.    Currently, many of the enteprises in this group are composed of several firms carrying out a
wide rae   of inter-rd   activities. For example, the AlbPetrol "family of SOEs contains everything
from drilling and exploration to enterprises producing equipment used in drilling, as well as retail gas
statons.  In the frst step, before their eventual privatization, the Government will semline the
operatons of Group 1 SOEs. The Government already identified all subsidiaries of Group 1 SOEs, and
will prepare and implement a plan to break up and privatize "non-core" activities of Group 1 SOEs.
41.    Group 2 - Entrprls    i            estnuct   Ageocy. The Government is committed to privaizaton
and Liquidation as the means for ridding the public sector of the great majority of SOEs. IFge loss-
main  firms are unlikely to be atrctive candidates for privazaon.  However, in some cases,
immediate closure may not be an option because these enterprses are large employers and massive lay-
offsi may not be a feasible option. Rather than let these enterprises become a burden on the state banis,
by borrowing funds that are unlikely to be repaid, or letting them run up inter-enterprise arrears with
creditor SOEs, (which leads to furter loss of revenue to the state), the Government has decided to make
the suppot for these enerprises  aspan  through outrght budget subsidies, where dus is desblbk
or wuaoWable.
42.    To ensure that aU sources of support to ERA enterprises will come from  the budget, ERA
enterprises are prohibited by decree from borrowing from banks or other sources. Furthmore, Eh
spendig is capped as part of the maroeconomic framework agreed to with the IMF. In 1994, ERA
spending has been budgeted at Lekl.8 bilion (US$18 million equivalent), the equivalent of 1 percent of
GDP and 2.5 percent of budgeted ex itre. In 1995, the budgeted amount will be set based on
adherence to deficit fiancing targets.4 Aproval by Gouncil of Miisters of 1995 budgetary resources
for ERA will be a condton of seond  wnche relase of this credit. The budged amounts appear to
4       The 1995 program projecs the oval budget deficit to be 13 perceot of GDP. The domestcly financed
portion of the budget -a prjeted to be fIur percent of GDP..



15
be adequate because they will be spent mostly on defensiv restructring, closure cost, and worker
retig. Unemployment bfits and socia assistance benefits are funded under separate budget lis
in the Government budget. Although it can legally do so, ERA has been so far very reluctant to award
special severance payments to workers laid off from ERA enteprses in order not to appear to faor
cerain groups of workes as agaist othe. However, ERA is now considermg ts option as it fices
the liquation of large and politically sensitive eeries.
43.   ERA's aim is to review esting SOE operations and detmi  plans to reverse losses and pepare
the companies for privatition. Wher enterprises are demined to be non-viable" ERA will take steps
to liquidate them. For the reminder, it wUl intervene dtough provision of technical assistance or debt-
based finace. A list of 32 enterprises from the Ministries of Mines and Energy Resources, Industry and
Trade,-and Consucton was finalizd in late 1993, when the BRA by-lws were passed. The entprises
are spread across a number of sub-sectors: textile, chemical, metallurgical, electro-mehanical,
conmption goods, and coal mines. Some of the companies experiencing the most problems are the
metallurgical and chemical plants, and coal mines. A Counil of Miiters vote is needed in the case of
a closure.
44.   R ItrCtWur   and Pvtivation ef ERA SOEs. ERA is responsible for the privtizaion of its
SOEs. However, it will work closely with NAP officials to prepare docu ton and carry out the
acta tansferral of ownerhip. ERA, durough its by-laws, is de facto owner of enterprises in its
portfolio. This effecively removes the line ministries from conact with and control over these
enteprises. This will enable ERA to change maragement and make other significantdecisions regarding
te SOEs without poss'bility of dipute. It is responsible only to the Council of Ministers, and only
epediture greater than US$100,000 equivalent, and decisions to close SOEs, must be approved by
CoM. Therefore, ERA has the freedom to act at any time during the two to three years of its operations
to pivatize the companies or close them.
45.   To hanle the coWlex decision-making process involving the downsizing or split-up of SOBs,
creation of marbetg saegies, search for new parters and maitenan  of plants, ERA has reruited
staff fmom other public agencies, and relies on experu of the line ministries to conduct sector studies.
ERA has received technical assistance and support from the World Bank, which has provided foreign
advisors finaced under its Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Credit (2492-ALB). The Bank
objective is to create a small but effective team of experts composed of experienced engineers, financial
anilysts and lawyers, and advised by foreign advisors based in Albaia. The approach is workg, and
as of June 1994, ERA staff have produced, with the assistance of foreign expers, 4 liqidation and S
restucti  plans for its entepris, as well as prelImnauy diagnostic studies for the remaing 23
entepes, all to the saisction of the Bank.
46.   Over the neM two years, ERA will devvelop and execute plans for each of its companies. The
Council of Miisters has -ady approved 3 liquidation plans for ERA enterpries.   is foreseen that
ERA will accelerate liquidation and privatizaton of its SOEs with time. Privazaon or liquidation of
at least 12 ERA SOEs out of 32 is a condition of second gnaace rdse of this redt.
47.   Group 3 - Oter SOEs. Group 3 includes all other SOEs. It is cumrey composed of
appro ely 40 large SOEs (Group 3a), and contai, in addition, the raaing small- and medium-
size en        under Decree 248 (Group 3b). The Government intends to undertake all necessary steps
to privadze rapidly the most viable SOEs in the near fre. Privatiaonof at least 12 large SOEs, (will
be a condition of seod &roc   reeare of this aredk). (.e. about 25 percent of the total numiber).



16
48.   The exact number of remaining smal and medium SOEs is stil uiknown, but probably  ose to
500. Goverme  ste  for privaizaio of small and medin SOBs, under the Dr  24s, was very
successM and more than 750 of them have been aleady pratized. Privatiaton of an addonal 200
small and medium SOEs is coanton of secod bunhk    of thi cedt.
49.   As discussed, there will be no budgety funds provided to Group 3 SOEs, which will hv to
meet a market test for their working capital and investm  needs. Finncing may be provided by banks,
should they find these SOEs creditworthy. In accordanc with earlier Govement deions, state bnk
w  no longerbe dirctdto m     credits to SOB. Among oth a     ns, theremoval of goverm-n
gua_aees for bank lending to SOEs will remove the political pru  iposed on the baks on be
of enterprise. Finaly, National Commeia Bank (NCB) will be prohibited from ending to Group 3
SOEs for nw investments. However, NCB wHi be allowed t lend fsb to them for worg capil
needs and trade finacing.
3. mrorving Monitoring and Coorinaion of Privazaton Process
50.   As discussed, many problems still affect the Government coordintion of the privatizationprocess.
Line ministries conu  to oversee the operations of the large SOEs, and have great inene on their
progress towards privattion. Furemrme, NAP does not have the insutional capcity to acquire
accrat enprise data, or the mandae  to corntol SOEs during this process. Under the EPSAC
program, the government intends to stramline its moitoring and coordnation actvities, and adopt a set
of criteia to determie progress towards is priaization objectives. The Governmt and the Bank
preaed togetber procedures for monoring privatizadtin progess by NAP. The Govenmet wil esre
coniued satsfactory monitoring of pnvaidon progress. As with Decree 248, the maine     of
the privatzation staegy will be the speed of transferring the SOBs into private hands so that steps to
revitlizeradonasze th  enterprises can be implem d as early as possible. Various ptios   for
privatization are being considered, including the possibifity of sale by auction (witiout a reserve price),
wah or witut vouchers, and methods providng a certin discn   to employees and managers.
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.    Ih Stutue of the Banig Sector
51.   The Albanian banking system is compised of a Central Bank, the Bank of Albnia (BoA), three
stae-owned bak, one joit-venture bank and two small privt banks. The stat-owned banks account
for nearly all the banking sector assets of About LeklOO billion (US$1 billion eqivalent). The  rgest
comercial bank, the Natonal Conmercial Bank (NCR), holds more than 70 per   of total assets and
the largest share of deposit and loans, most of which are related to the enterpise sector (see Table 4.1).
The Savins Bank (SB) holds the largest share of household deposis, a tng  for 36 percent of total
deposits (see Table 4.1). The Runl Comnmercid Bank (RCB), wch succeeded the Bank for Agricule
and Development (BAD) in late 1993, is the principal bank for the agric al sector.



17
Tabh 4.1: S9ucte of the Baubig Set (hi partct)
Dounbwi 1992-November 1993
Danklt .     Shar of Assets    Shae of Loans*     Shae of Deposits
12/92    11/93     12/92   11/93     12/92     11/93
NCB         76.8    71.9        73.5   74.2       61.8     S3.0
SD          14.3    18.3         1.3    4.7       35.-0    36.3.
RCB          0.0      6.3        0.0   18.6        0.0      10.7
MD)          8.9    3I          25.2    2.5        3.2      0.0
TOTAL    100.0   100.0       100.0  100.0      100.0    100.0
*       aLoas to both Goveneu and tho economy (SOEs, priat enterpriss ad
households)
Source: Dant of Albana
B.  bUes in Banig Seto Refonm
52.   Followig a series of restucuring measures, iniated in late 1991 and early 1992 - break-up of
the fomwer State Bank of Albania into commercial bak and the Bank of Albani  accompaned by
aoption of a Cental Bnk Law and Commercial Bank Law - the cur   banki  sector beg to emerge.
However, in spite of restuctuing efots undetaken over the past three years, development of a viable
commercial bankig system has been relaively slow. Many of the fictors hinderig the ILoces are
inbherited from years of cenrlly planned banking principles. Banks historicaly operated as collection
nd dibursement agents for the Government. Baniung prmtices were not subject to maket-bad
criteria, but ratber saped by hine ministries who issued directives to the banks on the fiancing needs
of tate-owned eepri  and farms. Conequently, with the collapse of SOE output, vialy all the
assets of the baning system were wiped out.
53.   Ibe initial strategy elaboted by the Govenment to deal with the saowned banking sector was
twofold: first, to remove bad SOE loans from the books of the bank, and second, to instruct banks to
adopt commercial-based ledn praces while developing baning ddlls throug tecbnical assisace
and training. In late 1992, the Governmen agreed to forgive ou_t     SOE debt incred prior to July
1992. A decision was made by the Council of Minsters to announce the recaitalization of the state-
owned banks by iSuming bonds equal to the book value of these "old" loans, estimated at Lek7.2 billion
(US$72 milion equivalent). Provisions were made in the 1993 budget to cover the estimaed interest
payments on bonds. However, after discssions with the World Bank, the Goverment has delayed
issuing the boens untfl a complete assessment of the recapitalization ty needs of the banks can be
deamined, and the banks have dmontated the abilit to opert  accordig to moder bnkig
,te qu, inluding accountin, risk assessent, and portfolio m.
54.   Inaeut baing practices of the past coninue to afflict the finacal sector. At end-1993,
delinuen ies approximated 13 percent of the stock of new loam of NCB and about 23 percent for SB,
most of which were at least 60 days ovadue. Moreover, the magniude of the problem is somewhat



-             .      ~~~~~~18
udeastated by those dedquences, as "long-term" loans (greater than one year) are not considered
4dinquCt until they come due  There are also disparities in wnnpfomg loan totals between cenral-
bank repors and individual bank reports that would Waise delinquencies to 20 percen of end 1993 loan
sto,.6. I1  fact ha nolwperformanot is crnty mor prvent in the-private secor ta with SOEs
reflect a systemic problem wth loan qualit (see Table 4.2).
Ta  4.2 Nei4whnulng Lanw  at 1Q and 4Q 1993 (ms of Le.k)
March31, 1993                     Decemb31, 1993
Sock     overde       % Overdu     stock    Overdue      % Overdue
NCB
State                  1222       196          16.0       1653       138          8A
Privae                 581        96           16.5       1210      233           19.3
Total                1803        291          16.1      2863       372           13.0
@1w Short-term           1193       291          24.4      1SiS       357           23.6
o/w Long-erm             611         0           0.0        1348       15            1.1
-    Bak
Ste                    141         0           0.0        334        0            0.0
Private                248        40           16.1       710        243          34.2
Totl                  389        40           10.3      1044       243           23.3
@ow Short-tem            248        40           16.1       393       243           61.8
O/W  lng-term            141         0           0.0        651        0            0.0
BADI
Sta                    661        33           5.0        604        52           8.6
Private                850        67           7.9       2341       267           11A
Total                1511        100          6.6       2945       319           10.8
o/w Shott-trm           1029        82           8.0        2209      276           12.5
o/w Lopgterm             482         18          3.7        736        43           5.8
*  Figures are for 'ne  loans; *old nonfoming loans made prior to July 1992 are excluded
Souwce Bank of Mlaia
5S.    The prevalence of non-performing loans undrmin  baik liquidity, capital and sound interank
reladons. The inability or unwilngness of enteprises to semce pnncipal and interest has consrined
the banks from  obtaing the liquidity necessary for additional lendig and capital for on-going
operations. Consequently, the banms have had to borrow from BoA and SB, and in some cases, have
been forced to advance fuimds to otber bank at the behest of BoA while lacking sufficient funds
S      Savigs Bank shows 23 perce  of        loan dliquent at end 1993. but delinquenci of 62 percent
for shot-tm loans. Loigterm loans may be of the sa   quaty, yet will not be conserd nn-
perforing until a lat date. NCB shows 24 perent of shortterm loans are delinquent.
6      BOA shows RCB with 319 mllion Lek (US$3.2 milion) in delnquent loans. However, it does not include
the nealy S0 miion LeA in State farm loans net of the pre-July 1992 loans (2.8 billion Lek) still on the
BAD balance shed that ae not covered in he oGOA bond isuae. Tlis would raise delinquences to 20
percent of end 1993 loan toc.



19
themselves& Net interbank positions are a negative Lek6 bllion (US$60 million eqivalent) to SB.
This represents half of inte k financing less the reserve and liqudity tequiments held with BoA and
in foreig banks. NCB extended an unrecoverable Lek3 bilion (US$30 million equivalent) to BAD with
loan frm SB and BoA for state faums, on whickNCB -is having difficuty paying the inerest. Thus,
liquidibt shorges are common at two of the three main bans (NCB and BAD), while am td lsses
bave undermined building a capital base at all three mina banks since mid-1992.8
56.   Underlying all of the individual bank obstacles are large systemc problems associ    with
-finacial setors that are nadequately structured for maiket economies. These deficiencies ar related
to poor finacial infrastructure, which include improper internal and exten  reportng, a lak of
recognized legal standards for accountinglauditing, inappropriate regulation xa4 eforcementi measures
for collateral and clains, unsuitable workqlaces iad system techoilogy, ineffkient courier and payment
systems, and inadequate human capital development. All are currently laggig behind international
standards.
C.    The Reform Progm
1. Overvew
57.   The Govement's long-term view for the Albanian financial sector is one of a banking .ystem
cousiing of small and medium-size private bank, which will mobilize deposits and lend primarily to
smal and medium-size enterprises, complemented by a number of nonbanking financial interediaries,
fcilitng commerce and investent.
58.   Several factors, however, preclude immediate realization ot ich a stucture: (i) the absece of
an adequate legal and reguatory firaework needed to ensure prudent banking practices in a marketbased
environment; (h) the lack of demand from domestic or foreign investors to acquire and restruue the
state bans; and (iii) the financial vam  that would result for households and enterprises if the state
banks were simply shut downL Therefore the financial sectors's evahlation toward the revised strucue
will have to take place over the next few years. The Govermment had a choice between two nmdium-term
strategic options to increase the efficiency of state-owned bank, before their privatization: (i) enable them
to compete in the same market segments, and (ii) enable them to concena  on their stregths and
cmpetencies in different market s_em. The EPSAC program chooses the second approach, which
seems to be more suited to the current market conditions in Albania. NCB will iniially continue to
operate as a *wholesale" bank for medum- and large-scale enterprises, and its branch network and
7     This eacludes RCB, which recdved its license to operate in Sepmer 1993.
8     Aggrgaed bank capital of NCB, SB and RCB is reported to be 3.5 percent of total asset, but this fis
to account for loan loss provisions and other potential losses that would dea  capital according to
internial acounting standads. A more accurae ca*al value, after facring in bhn'  losss, would
show a negative net positon of more than Lek S billin (6 percent of total assets and 4.5 percent of GDP).
This figue would be higher if it included the  oadig Lek 20 billion from trade finae acounts (e.g.,
trade with Former Soviet Union, loans to defunct SOEs *guanteed- by fotmer Mintry of ForeiP Trade)
that e also icluded on bak' balance sheets. Should the bao  have to aume responsiity for these
assets, their negive net worth will eeed 25 percet of total assets.



20
enteprise financing capabilities wi}l be merged with one or seveal joint-venture parts. SB, while
continuing to mobilize household deposits and smal pensions, will gradua}ly become either an effctive
otop financial shop for small- and medium-scale enterprises, or a conservative fianial institution
focusin on asset-liabiity management as money and capit markets develop mi Albania.-- RCB wi}l
coltinue to focus on the grwing rural sector, mobilizing household and small enterprise deposit and
lendivg to diversified businesses linked to the tura economy, and will be privatized duough a wide
distrition of its shares to fariers, merchant and private cooperatives.-
59.   Whie these measues continue to perpetate Albania's aditiona banking -system of market
segmentation and specialization, they also allow banks to operate more productively, as they have, to
some extent, developed experience and experdse in specific markets. The bank, thereore, can
concentra on mproving their overall business practices, wile limiting actual and potenta losses. At -
the same time, the governmt will actively encourage entry of new privu banks, to complement-and
increasinly replace-some of the acivities of the public banks.
60.   The strategy to develop the financial sector thus will have three components: flt, reform and
restrUcturn of the st-owned banks; second, providing an appropriate framework for creating new
private baks and encouraging informal mone-y lenders and non-bank final intmaies to enter the
fomal financial            circuit; and thrd, improving the overall banking infrastructure by
strnghenngthe supervoy and regulatory framework in the financial sector.
2. Reform and Restnstuing of the Stae-O    Banks
61.   A complex web of inteank transactions, resulting from the techimcal difficulties experienced the
breakup of the monobank remains to be settled, and prevents a clear asement of the health with the
portfolios of individual bank. The Government has developed a plan to clear all interbank arrears,
which shodd resolve outading disputes regarding interbank advances and obligations, and facilitate
more efficient resource allocation in the interbank marlet. The approved 1994 budget includes interest
expenditure of Lek4.6 billion, or 2.8 percent of GDP. This allocation includes a provision for interest
payment requied by the clearing of interbank arrears. The Government has cleared inrbak arrears
among BAD, NCB, SB and BoA in the amount of Lal¢.87 billion, resulting from bad loans BAD made
to stateowned farms prior to June 31, 1992. NCB's capital obligation to BoA with the equivalent value
of equity of MoF investment inNCB will be cleaed by Dember 31, 1994; this is a condition of second
bwhe rdease of this credit.
62.   With regard to the future of the individua baniks, the goverment strategy is to work towards
their eventual privatization (in whole or in part), while taking actions to limit further risks to the baking
system and restricting lending possibilities to more careful scrutiny and performance-based measures.
In  mmary, this will imvolve (i) resticig the deposit-taking activities (from households) and interbank
borrowing of NCB to prevent it from having access to large resources that could be mislent; NCB will
be subject to more careful scrutiny by BoA, and increases in lending will be based on loan recovery and
enigs pefoman; (ii) directing most of the lending acvities of SB towards financing the government
deficit, while alowig some limited, piot lending to the private sector; and (iii) continuming to develop
RCB as a specialized bank for viable private agricultural activities. The ceilings set on domestc
financing of the Govemment budget by the IMP ESAP program are consistent with the limits iposed
on private sector credit expansion under the EPSAC program. The EPSAC program cannot guare
dth bans will extend credit to the private sector up to the ceiling, however, it does guarntee that
domestc ficing by the Govement wil not binder the expansion of credit to the private sector.



21
63.   As the banks become healthier and more experienced at commercial  aking pracces, the
Government will agree with the World Bank on a pla to restuctue and privatize NCR and on specific
plans to privatize SB and RCB by second bawhe rdese of his  cret.
64.   National Comderdal Back (NCB) -will not be alowed to collect household deposits. It Vill
restrict its non-deposit borrowing either-to funds proivided by BoA, or to the interbank markt, subject
to autorization by BoA. Therefore, BoA will exercise more direct supervisory control over NCB's
liquidity, solvetcy and nagement. This wil provide BoA with the ability to control losses derived
from NCB's stock of non-performins loans, mostly to the SOE sector, while providing an incentive to
NCR to be more prudet in its lendn decisions. As NCB's access to fuids will be limited, its =aagers
will be motivated to improve lending practies, and to look for the best and most solvent clients, both
private and state-owned. Also, NCB prepared a plan of actions to iuprove its magementand to ded
with the SOE bad loans. The newly appoited    eral Maag  will take the respoaubility for
implementing this plan and for leading the instition towards esrwin and eventual privatizato
65.   Saving Bank (SB) will restrict its lending to MoF, households, and private sector enepes.
To provide SB with an opportunity to become an effective leader and with an incentive to incrase loan
collection, SB's non-government lending for 1994 will be limited to 150% of reflows of interest and
principal, or volunty rollover by SB of principal with cash interest rpaymen on non-government loans
outstanding in 1994. Thus, effective July 1, 1994, the leding limit for SB will be adjusted quarterly,
not exceeding, however, the amount defined above, and will be no greater than the qwarerly lending
ceiling set by the BoA. The above limit on SB lending is designed to curtail high rates of non-
perfo.anace. In the same time, the EPSAC program provides SB with an incentive to coUect existing
loans. The chnge in SB activities represents a prudent approach that takes SB's high rates of non-
performing loans and risky atenpts at universal bankig into account without, however, eliminating
lending to private enrprises which would deprive them of the only significant source of bank fimance.
To improve the lending practices of SB, a credit committee has been established within SB headquaters
to approve credits proposed by the branches for amounts above Lel5 million. Additionally, BoA wil
revise lending ceilings for SB, -subject to a review of SB's 1994 performance as a condion of second
enhAe reledse of this credit. Lending to the Government is expected to come from SB's excess
reserves, which will be placed in the new Treasury bill market. SB's invesmens in Tresury bils will
provide the bank with a safer source of eanings than it currety enjoys, and the Government with a
financing vehide of approxiaely 50 percent of its projected 1994 fiscal deficit.
66.   Rural CommeI Bank (RCB) will contnue to serve as agent in recovermg non-performing
loans of BAD to former Sate farms. More specfflic acvities are oudined in the MA ASAC (2524-ALB).
67.   The EFSAC supports efforts to strengten bank operations as a significant part of their
restucturing strategy. This includes s pport for completion of the new chart of acoun for commrci
banks being developed with EBRD assistance, and agre on the Terms of Rference for exeral
audits of the state-owned banks. Banks currently have weak and inconsistent inal and ea l
reportig requiments. Completion of the new chart of accounts for commal bas will provide the
necessary framework for banks to develop management and financial information systems required to
operate according to intenational standards. Exernal audits of the ste bans wil serve as a vhice for
determinig appropriate vaues and institutional obligations according to interaonal standards. This will
serve both to clean up bank balance sheets from an accounting standpoint, and to clarify the ultmate
responsibilit (e.g. bank, BoA, GoA) for significant liabilities caied on bank balance shee4t for which
they are not liable (e.g.  fans for which they acted only as agents on behalf of GoA or the fonre



22
State Bank). The Terms of Reference for the eternal audt bas been developed and agreed with the
World Bank, and submission to the World Bank of the 1994 exernal audits and initiation of portfolio
reviews of the statwned banks will be conditions of second bunch l-rdgase of this credit.
3. Fadlitadng the Entey of PWvate Banks and Devdoping Non-Bank Finacial Inssdt*ons
6C.   The EFSAC program intends to su t deveopment of the forma c      n        for the
private sector. Spwific masures will be introduced to facilitae the entry of new private banks. These
mea_s    include issuig and publicizing new bank licnsig guid , allowg fite private bans
to conduct their operatons on a market basis, and developing a public education program for bank
customlers.,
69.   On May 12, 1994 BoA had adopted bank licensing guidelines to faciliate the entry of new bank
while ensuring that investors have the financ  resources, management experence, and repuation to
operate in accordance with domestic pnudeia regulat . These guidelines have been amended on June
7, 1994 following the romm       of the World Bank. The minmm capital required for new
private banks is set at US$1 million eqivalent, with the exception of cooperative banks, for which it is
US$500,000 equivalent. The objective of these gidelines is to encourg entrants, especialy individuals
(residents and non-residents) and foreign banks to invest in the formal private f cial sector in Albaia.
Exerience from neighboring countries in the region has shown that well-established foreign bank may
not invest quickly in the quasi, non-existent private financial sector, especially in small counties like
Albania. Therefore, it is preferable that the minimum capital requrements are set low enough, compared
to widely accepted internatonal stadards, to attract local investors. Given Albania's size and level of
income, some in the Government argued to fit the minimum capital reqirements even lower with the
objective of encouraging rapid entry of some small private banks. However, the EFSAC program takes
a more conservative approach, at least initay, reflecting the desire to avoid bank failures and the
ensun crisis of confidence in the nascent private sector. Controls over volume of lendig and deposit-
taking will be set up, using high minimum capital adequacy ratios, to lhmit potental fimancial risk for
depositors in the initial stage of the operaions of new prvate banks. For those new private banks
established by less experienced invesos, the minimu capital adequacy ratio will be set high in principle
(20 pecent of risk-weighted assets), but BoA will have the ability to rduce it to 8 percent, depenig
on the inationaly recognized credit ratings of bank and bank owners and other relevant factos,
including type of bank license. The reduction in the capital adequacy requemeat of individual banks
will be based on a set of explicit and trapaent criteria. To encorage the entry of private bonks, BoA
has developed a program to publicize the licensing requiremenb and procedures for the entry of new
private banks. A review of all bank licensing requiments in early 1995, based on expeience
accumlated troughout 1994, will be a conditon of second etmae reease of this credit.
70.   The Government inends to encourage efficient allocation of scarce fiancial resources through
lib    d pricing in the private banking sector. Private banks will be given full auonomy to conduct
their operations in the most market-efficient way, subject to the tem  of their license. - s upport of this,
the Goverment bas agreed with the World Bank that private banks will not be subject to adminterd
interest rates. Additionally, BoA has prepared and agreed with the World Bank on the Terms of
Reference for an expert to design an action plan to promote the development of a private baking sector.
The plan will be prepared by the end of 1994 and implmented in early 1995.
71.   The Governmt believes that baking institutions alone will not be able to provide the fill
financial needs of the emerging pnvate sctor in Albania. To facilite the development of factorng,



23
leasing, isurance and other non-bank financial markets, MoF will develop a srate  and plan to ident
meaures to encourage the entry and promote the deeopment of finance and leasing companies. Any
plan would be relative to the progress made in the bankig sector, and within the context of maininin
a safe, prudent operating environmen to promote overall financial sector stability.
4. Strengthening Bank Infistrture
72.    With-EFSAC support, BoA intends to introduce a new chart of accounts for all bans acrding
to Westem European accuntig standards, increas supervisory, reguory and inspection at.
strengthen payments systems and improve the legal famework  Work has already begun on reviig
accounting standards, and BoA has recently decided to reorganize the Bank Supervision Deatmn to
include on-site inspection and responsibility for licensing,,heretofore administered by BoA's Foreign
Deparment.
73.   Subs    work has aready gone into improving the accounting framework.  The new
Accounting Law for enterprises was hitrouced in late 1992, and is consistent with intemational stuadads
and pracices. To ensure consistent and compatible approaches and sandads, a working group was
established to coordinate with the banks to draft a bank aconuting law. BoA also intends to introduce
a new chart of accounts for all commercial banks as a condition of secwnd bwnche relede of this credit.
These efforts are expected to Improve the qualty and accelerate the production of information needed for
ongoing montorig, supervision and management of an advanced financal sector.
74.   Efforts to improve bank reguon and supervisionhave been underway since restucing began
in 1991. Laws on the Bank of Albania and for the Banking System were passed in April 1992. BoA has
been workng to strenghen its Supervision Deptment, and has developed a plan to stegthen BoA's
supervisory capacity, and authority to review and enforce regulations on licensing and pdential bag.
BoA has issued prudentia reguations conceming capal adequacy, minim  capital requem    for
the existing banks, credit policy and lending procedures, cocentration of borrowers, clssification of and
provisioning for bad loans, foreign exchage exposure, and bank reporting requrments. However,
BoA's Supervision Department continues to be weak due to insufficiently trauined personel. In
conjunction with development of the n Iw chart of acCounts, BoA intends to stengthen its supeiso
capacity of the banks by increasing personnel for inspection and introducing dequate trag programs.
75.   To fcilitate development of BoA supervisory capacity and authority, BoA has requested from
the U.S. Traury, an on-site inspector with international experience. The expert will provide BoA with
guidelies regarding iernationl standards, and provide triin for inspection personnel. Enhanced on-
site inspection capabilities wil help conin bank losses, increase financial sector stability and improve
overall efficiency in financial  dion.Ap im  of the ewpert wil be a conditio of second
Wnche  rdease of this cre&.  Approximately 7 on-site inspections have been completed and
comprehesive training of BoA inspectors will be initiated by the end of 1994. Improving BoA's
syuersy capacity will be an on-going effort and therefore, sautisfactory progms in strnSgt    BoA's
supervisory capacity, authority on licensing and prutde     baking, and in on-site inspections are
conditions of second bunche rdeease of this credi.
76. The EFSAC program will address weaknesses in the banking sectores payment systems, and
transions and data processing system. BoA has dRfted        to the existing law on cheques,
and prepared a draft law of bills of exchange and promissory notes. Once these laws are approved, the
Goverment intends to support bank staff tainig in cheqUe processing and clearing, establish a system



24
of clearig houes to sflitat interban setemenms, and inite a couier system to speed the deliveay
of doumens, infomaon, and curncy. Thee efforts are expected to accelerate the curry slow
pace of transactions and infomation flows. By reducing tansacdon dme, greater security wil be
introduced as curecy and other kems itransit will be accued for more quicy. These stm wiU
also accelerate infmation flows. which wiR provide for more efficient bau  supervo,  off-ise
inpecton, and nalysis of results. MoF will initiat a feasbity study on the need for a service bureau
for transactions and data procsing to enhace efficiency in bank payment sm, tranactions and data
processin.
V. LGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENTERPRS AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
77.   After the breakdown of the old order, Albania had to vially start fom scratch in puttig m
place the necessary mnimum legal famewo  tat is required for a fuinconig market economy. Over
the past two years, the Goverme  and Parliament bave introduced a rather large nmber of nw  laws,
addressming various aspects of economic reform. Due to the size of the task ta was initiated, however,
there reman major wealmesses in the legal system, and some ontctiose also preset. This is
particularly the case in the areas of ban t  and loan recovery.
78.   A functioning bankruptcy system is essential for an efficient, continuous restucuring process in
the eneprise sector, and the disposad of physical assets through the liquidation of banknrpt SOEs is a
significant avenue for privatiaon. Alba's present bankuptcy legislation (Law on the Bankruptcy of
State Enterprises, No. 7631) suffers from serious weaknesses, including (i) that it only addresses SOEs,
and does not include private enteprises, and (ii) gives too much power to existing enterprse
managnemet, and thus too little contol to creditors. A functioning bankruptcy system also requires an
appropriate implementing mechanism includig a   ctoning court system and the availability of
competent a     ns ("liqidiats") of bankrupt compaies and esaes. The Government is aware
that improvemts are needed in this draft law and is considering changes. Measres in dtis regad will
be addressed in the EFSAC progrm.
79.   Before the market-based bankig system can function, there is a need to adopt laws cratig a
reliable system for recovery of loans from bank borrowers. Under the EPSAC program, legiston
dealing witi the loan recovery process will be prepared and submitted to the Parliament. In addiion,
there is also a need to educate bank ctomers about the obligations concerning the timely repaymnt of
contracted loans. To this effect, the Government agreed to develop and initate a Public Education
Progam to inform bank custom    of the legal implications of borrowig and lending practices.
80.   Under the EFSAC program, the first phase of the legal framework reform wil be completed by
early 1996, at which tine Albania wil have the appropriate set of aws, including accounting and
audiig, bankruPtcies, loan recovery as well as Civil and Commercial Codes. The Government has
completed the inventory of legislation pertaining to the enterprise and financial sector. This inventoqr
wil be used as a starting point to assess the exte and an   of the existig laws given the
needs of the enterpise and banking sector in Albania.
81.   The Goverment also established an office with r  eon from BoA, MoP and other
concered agencies to coordnate the legal review. The Office will carry out the following tk: (i) to
canry out a comprehensive review of the legal framework pertaning to the BoA, loan teowvery,



25
b ruptcy, restiution, e   rnse rng privatization and pnvate enterprise developmen (ii) to
analyze the existng laws and reuatory framework with assistance of expert consultants, in order to
ldnty gaps, noi         , contrdictions, and other defiets; (iii) to ense, through the apppriat
authoriies, ta the necessary regulatory framework to implement new and etg laws is in place; (iv)
to monitor legislative itidatives frm all sources. The legal review will bo completed by the end of 1994,
and subsequety, based on its finings, the Office wil ptepare an acdon program, agreed with the World
Bank. to mtroduoeamend legisladon (in line with envisioned enactment of Civi and Commercal Codes)
to support ense and financia sector developmet Faurtmore, the Office will prepa  drafts of
a  wlegisationonban tcy proceedi foral etrpises and onloan  covery. Adoption by the
Cuil of Ministe  of these draft wfll be condition of second b abe   ew of this credit.
VL PROJECT COORDINATION AND IMPLMENTATION
82.   The Government of Albania is aware of the need for extensive coordinton among severa
ministies, agenies and institons for a successful execution of this program. To this purpose, it
estdalsd a Comnittee for the Modenizaton of the FITcl Sector (X S). Ths Comme's
mandate will be to coordina  the implnion of the project in all its aspects, iden   the outstanding
issues, and agree on necesay action to keep the progm  of reforms under EFSAC on schedule. The
commttee wfll be helped by a fuDl time advisor (investm   bank, management consuting fim, or
independent consultant) to coordinate the mpl ion. The Govermen agreed with the World Bank
on   itoring and reporting procedures for project implementon.
83. In fulfilling its mission, the Committee will coordinate the efforts of multilateal and bilateral
dos  and finan  istiuons to focus on stucural and sectoral needs determined to be key priorities;
The Committe is composed of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Goveror of BoA, the Minister of
Finae, the Diroctor of the Agency for External Aid and Public Invstment C dinaon, and the
Financial Advisnr to the President.
VII. THE PROPOSD CREDIT
A.    Credt Amount and Borrower
84. The proposed IDA credit, in an amount equivalent of SDRIO.6 million (US$15 million
equivalent) will be made to the Republic of Albania for a period of 40 years, including a 10-year grace
period, on standard IDA terms.
B.    Cndit Design and Compwo_ts
85. The proposed credit would provide quick-disbursing funds for balance-of-ayments assistance in
support of the Govermment's reform program to promote. The Goverment, in coopration with the
World Bank and IW, would aim at maintaining a stable macr omic framework within which
essenial stuct  reforms can be implemetxed. The main elements of the reform program supported
by this operation include: (i) reform of the enterprise sector, including implementaton of a privatiztion



26
strategy for large SOEs and downszng of large problem SOBs; (ii) reform of the financal sector,
including bank restructig and privatizaion, and the str g of banking infrastructr; and (iii)
enhancm  of the legal and rglaory framework to promote private setr  development.
86.  -A substantid numberof reforms nlder the EPSAC program were  ready implemented. ERA
has been established and has made considerable progress i developing restructuring and liquidation plans
for its eneprie. Privatization of smal} and medium enrps  is prgsng smoothy, with tgets
set by the EFSAC prgm being exceeded. ASo, signficant effor have bee made to reuctue the
exist  banking sector, icluing imiprovement of badng practices of the sateowned banks, limiting
thei activities and establishing new credit policies, learing intbank arrears among the state-owned
bansn, and e4_  bank supervision within the BoA. - Finally, new guidelines for bank lceing
have been adopted to facilitate the entry of new private bank (see Annex B. Policy Matrix - Actions
Taken-to Date).
87.   No co-financing has been identified for this credit but adequae amounts of technical assistance
required for both tie preparation and implemeaion of this operation, are being provided through the
]DA-financed Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (2492-ALB), as weli as though a
Japanese gant-
C.    Tranche Release CAndikos
88.   The credit will be disbursed in two tres. The first tranche of SDRS.3 milion (US$7.5
million equivalent) will be eligible for disburseent upon effectiveness of the credit. ITere are no special
conditions of effectiveness of this credit. The second tranche of SDRS.3 million (US$7.5 million
equivalent) is expected to be released in June 1995, after complianee with the conditions detailed in the
atached policy matrx (see Annex B).
D.  Ia_n ad And I
89.    MoF will admister the credit through its existing Project Impln    Unit (PU) which has
been set up and is admist    other IDA credits.
E.    Monioring
90.   Iplemeation of the policy program will be monitored by a Committee for Modenization of
the Financial Sector (CMFS), composed of the Deputy Prime Miister, Governor of BoA, Ministr of
Finunce, the Director of the Agency for Extenal Aid Coordination and Public Investment Monitoring
and the Financial Advisor to the President. On a day-to-day basis, the Committee will have the
responibility for monioring and evaluating on a continuous basis the progress in implement  the
various components of the policy progrm with input from the participating agencies. The Committee
will prepare reports on a quarterly basis. The World Bank will monitor imple aion with the help
of the policy matrix (atached), the Committee's reports and also tough review missions.



27
F.     I m       o  ankdD h
91.   When IDA be lendng to Albnia in 1992, it was exped that the Albian governmet
would be strongly challenged by the implementation of IDA opeations. This is largely due to limked
ad itrative capacity in Government, four decades of complete isolation from westn countries, lack
of familiarity with practices in market economies and mn-the ways of doing business -with itnatonal
developmen instituons such as the World Bank Due to this, and as sted in the Albania CAS in 1993,
arrangements were made up front for s gtening implem on capacity, incudg the establishment
Of  plentation units for IDA project in  nstries and execut  ages, settg up of a Resideot
Mission in Tiran in 1992, and orgaizing responsibility for project implementi in a ma_e tat
woud ensure effective monitoring and pronpt corrective ation. Tecncal assistance and extensive
traing  of ministry staff have also been used for capacity bilding. After a slow strt in 1992,
performance to date has been encouraging. Experience with nine IDA credits to date has shown major
Improvement in procurement, as well as general areas of project impl tion. Disbursements under
the portfolio are significany ahead of worldwide IDA averages. Nevertheless, it is recognized that
monitoring of implemention will be crucial for the success of the proposed redit and therefore,
provisions have been made for an exchange of views and consutaions, as well as the establmet of
a high level Albanian committee (CMIFS) that will coordinate the requied action among the various
govemment entities and the BoA.
92.   DIsbss. The proposed credit would finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of general
imports, excluding hury itam, military equment, nuclear reactors and pas, uranium, tobacco and
tobacco processing machiery, and envir   y hazardous products defined under the Banks Standard
Negative List for adju t operations. Disbursement would also be made against customs data in
accordamce with the procedure agreed to between MoF and the World Bank in ASAC.
G.   rt
93.              t  Imports made by ministries, state enrprs, state organizations ad private
importers above US$1 million per contract would be procured in accordance with simplified International
Compettive Bidding (ICB), using IDA's simplified Standard BWding Documents applicable to policy-
based lndig.  Contracts for the proement of goods by ministries, state entises, state
Organizatio, esmaed to cost below US$1 million each would be awarded on the basis of evaluation
and comparson of at least three quotations obtained from sWliers from at least two eligible cotries.
A recent IDA proement mssion has assessed the procurmet practices followed by the private sector
importers. The mission has demined that imports by private enterprises, excludig agents distibutors
and joint ventures, would be acceptable for disburement from this credit, for cacts estimated to cost
below US$1 million each, since their practices are based on soliciting and evaluatig quotations, and
selectng suppliers on consideration of price, quantity and performance, from different coumtries.
Commodities wiU be procured thrugh organized intenational commodity markes or other chabels of
competive procrement acceptable to the Association in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Associo. Direct conuacig (single source purchase) would be alowed only for proprietary items or
where the need for compatibity with existng items calls for stdardization with the prior approval of
IDA. A review of Albanian procrement pracices will be underakn shortly on the basis of which a
prolcumt strategy for Albania for FY95 will be prepared. The PIU in MoP, which has acquired
exerience in procurement under ASAC, will also be responsible for procuremet under this credit. The



28
custo  Adminision has bee providing import information based on customs decration form and
has established good working relatohip with the PIU.
EL    Accounts and Audits
94.   Accounts. The Govemment (Ministry of Face) wil keep the accounts on financial opeatio
unde the credit. These accounts will comprise of: (1) a record of drawings on the credit with copies of
all disbutsement reqests and underlying     on, in cases where this documentation is not being
retained by importers; and (i) a record of ranscons on-the special account and copies of the m" t
of these acounts. Thes records will be updated monty, and quaerly statmens of tasactions and
balones, together with the necessary r mmei ons for disbursemet ad infonration on claims in
process, will be forwarded to IDA.
95.   Audts. The Government wil arange for an enal amual audi of project and special accounts
by audtors acceptable to IDA. The  ditors' report wil include an opinion on the operaton of the
Special Account and the use of satements of expenditure. The accounts and udiors' report will be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The annual financial statem   of the
National Commerci Bank and the Savig Bank will also be aud by intnational auditors, acceptable
to IDA, and based on the Intrnational Accounting Smdards, and according to Terms of Reference
acceptable to IDA, starting with the fiswl year 1994. These audit reports will be submitted to IDA
within six monts of the end of the fiscal yeaws of the respective bans. Assuances on the above
arneetfor accounts and audit will be obtained during negotiations.
I.       hnrmen    Assest
96. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01,
Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "U" and does not require an
J.    Ben_its and Ris
97.   Buefft. The proposed EPSAC will support m ures that are crucial for the development of
a fiuctioning market econom and, if successfol, will help Albania turn the early success of stabilization
into long-term susainable growth. Privation and/or concrete measures to resuure a number of
important problem SOEs will lead to subanl improements in their performance so that they can reach
financia balance within a reasonable time or be closed. Other SOEs that conste a burden on Albania's
economy will be liquidated. These actions will help to down-size the public sector, limit the scope and
cost of government intervention in the fiacl sector and encourage the development of more
commercially orinted enterprises. The program will help establish basic market-based banking
inf    cte and promote entry of prvate banks with an interest in lending for productive purposes
based on profit criteria which will help stimulate growth of the private sector. EPSAC will iWdiracdy
but srngly contribue to poverty reduction, eentay by providing a stong impetus to broad-based,
prvate sector driven growth, and by reducing the potential pressure of SOEs and state-owned banks on
the budget, thereby freeing resources for key social programs.



29
98. R. kb. Tisambitiouspmpr misu edinviewoftbthegency ofdlb'severe
ecnommic problems, but it entails significant risks. The impact of the unctain and difficult aetal
poiic situation could  ad to poliical or social unrest or to a signficant worening of the securiy
sidaon. This could cave prssres to slow-down refoms and ipenion of the p        . Also.
although te is so far little diagreemet in Albania concering privatzation, the preses to cae to
specific inter  groups, for example, restittion to former owes, could st  affct-dte speed and
effectiveness of the privatization programn  In view of these concerns, it is iportt to try and achiev
quicidy a critical mass of syeic reforms while also ameliorating the impact on the populatn thug
apropria  budget policies and a reistic social safty net and short-trm job creation  The Bank is
addressnthese t conces through projects in the social sector and for rural poverty, and tough lbor-
itshi  componen_  of projects for transport and housing. Overall. considerin the son cm
to struct    reforms consistenly demonstrated by th Govenment of Albania, the perceived risk of a
policy sage in program impl        ions in fac relatively lited. The projectspecific ris
resuig from imited           capabilities n public administaton and in fincl insttitons cod
significantly slowdown ipleetatio of nrew   ions or policy decisions agred under the program.
In addition to continued provision of tednical assistance support under the Technal Asutmce Credit,
this risk is addressed trough a more comprehensive than usual set of chec}points included in the credit
coonality, that will allow close monitoring of the Govene's efectiveness in actual imple n
of policy decsions.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
99. I am satisfied that the proposed credt will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Wasnon DC
July 8, 1994



31
ANNIIA
LZR OF DEVELOMINT POUCY



32                                    -
Pagel of 11
Lete of Development Poiy
REPBLIC OF ALBANIA
ENTERPRS AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJIUSTM                    CREDIT
Tirana, lune 17, 1994
Mr. Lewis Preston
Preident
Inrnational Development Association
1818 H Stret, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.    This Lette of Development Policy outlines the program of stabilization and stucural meaures
of the Government of Albana and describes in detail our program of enterprse and fmnanci  sector
refornL. With our          c   program, we itend to consolidate the results achieved in the
stabilization of our economy over the past 1 1m2 years and to deVee the process of structural rorm
We recognize that defiive actions must be tken to resolve complex problems of the enterps and
faniad sectors to support and complement these efforts. With our progrm we ind to diena  the
ste from the enteprise sector ftough retucuig and privatization and to reform the state-owned
commercal banks. We would like to request an IDA credit from the World Bank to support the Albnin
economy durng the peiod of eecution of the complex and challengmg prognm for enteise and
financial sector refom.
Ecmomni Deve o-pents and Poices
2.    Our programs build upon the refm  luiched in mid-1992 to trsform and stabilize our
economy. Following thedemise of commuism and the economic and politcal uphead of 1990-92, our
country exrienced the most severe economic recession in all of Etern Europe. During 1991-92, real
GDP fell by almost 35 percent, with a decline in industria production of about 75 percent over the two
yeas. The collapse of the state enterpise sector, whi provided the bulk of our tax revenues, caused
fiscal revenues to decrease drastically from 42 percent of GDP to about 14 percent in mid-1992. At te
same time, cool over most categories of epdture viruly disappeared. Expendes rose to about
66 prce  of GDP in the firs half of 1992, with the deficit exploding to 42 percent of GDP. Monetay
fimcig of the ddicit and passive extension of craeit to state enterprises by the banking system pushed
monthly inflation into the 10-15 percent range.
3.    Folowing the dematic ections in Mach 1992, our Governmen took decisive steps to rtore
economic and social stability and embarked on a comprdensive program of reforms. Our initial program
was supported by a rapid mobilizaton of international aid, icuding a 12-month Stand-By Arraement
with the IMP, balace of payments support and emergency support organized under the auspices of the
EC/G24, and a Critd Import Credit frm the World Bank.



;33                 --
Page 2of 11
4.    The first signs of economic recovery emerged during 1992 with a rapid supply response in
agdicuture, driven by early land reforms. I trial production condaued to fall, however, and inter-
enteprise arrears increased sharply during the second half of 1992, due to the halt in undiecked
budgetary support. Economic performa    in 1993 was- rather encouraging overall. Policies were
implemented as inended; and growth, inlation and balance of payments were con bly songr tan
epected. Real GDP growth is estimated to have reached II percent, led by a strong recovery in
agricultura production and rapid grwth ifn commerce, consutin and   rtation. This upun came
almost entirely through prvate setor activity and reflects, in large part, the bineficial impacts of ealy
actions to privatie    land, dere     ion of domesic and exeal trade, and liberalition of
prices. Inflation fell to around 30 percent in 1993, well below the pgram target of 40 p,et. Owing
manly to the size of pnvate remittances and capital inflows, the targeted  crease in officid inenational
reserves was achieved despite shortfalls in exenal asistance; and the exchange rate remaine virtially
stable toughout the year.
5.    In Jly 1993 we adopted a comprehensive economic reform program for the 1993-96 Peo,
descnbed in the Policy Frmework Pa  (PPP) prepared in cooperaion with the IMP and the World
Bank. The program was supported by the IMO with a three-year ESAF in July 1993. With this program
we aim to reduce inflation to around 16 percent and to reach a sustined growth rate of about 5 percent
by 1996, while maing further progress towards exteral viability. We aim to acheve these targets
trough an improvement in domestic resource mobilization and rapid structural reform, facilitated by the
development of a targeted social safety net and supported by foreign. assistance on terms appropriate to
Albania's low level of income and cebt servicing capacity. A program of public fce reform will
allow a shift from a public sector cut account deficit to a modest surplus, hntded to eliminate the
Govermment's use of bank credit over the medium term and providing credit to the private sector, while
leavnng room for increased investment in public infrastructure. Over tme, the requirement for xernal
assistance is expected to decrease and its composition to shift increasingly toward investment fincing.
We will ensure continued satisfactory performance of the macroeconomc program throughout the
execution of the EFSAC program. To facilitate this process, with the 1994-96 Public lavestment
Program (PIP), we have developed a comprehensive tree-year strategy for hiestmens in public utilities
ad strategic entetprises that are likely to remain in public ownership over the medium term. This
strategy was presented to the donor commuty at the November 16-17, 1993 0-24 High Level Meeting
on Albania.
Macecnmic Program
6.    During 1994, the Govenment of Albania intends to cotue the process of m c
stablization and structural reform initi    over the past 1 1/2 years. Our principal objectives are, as
outlined in our 1994 program with the IM: (i) to achieve growth in real GDP of about 8 percent; (ii)
to reduce the inflaion rate from 31 percent to 19 percent; and (iii) to incrase our intional reseves
to about 3 months of imports, while making further progress toward a balance of payments and the
resolution of the arrears problem. Our stategy for achieving these goals is based on increasig public
savings and investments, strict limts on credit expansion, incomes policy, and the mobilization of
de       external support on highly concessional terms. Stuctr  reforms in 1994 will focus on the
enterprise and financial sector reforms described in detail below, stengt     the tax system and tax
administtion, deepening the foreign exchange market, and fufrher progress in reducing price distortions.



34.
Page 3 of 11
7.    We realize that ow ongoing efforts to stabilize our ecomy and restore growth cannot succeed
without strucural reforms in the enterprise and finamcial sectors. Cretg an environment favorable to
private sectorgrowth reqwes a rapid transfer of scarce productive assets to pnvate etreneurs, the
devdopment of financial iterediation, and sufficient credit resources to nurture the growth of the
private sector, which in turn requires a successful fiscal consolidation. Macroeconomic stabilition and
refonr of the enterprise and financial sectors therefore play a mutually reinforcing role in creating an
environment conducive to private sector growth.
8.    The apprv  budget for 1994 mnakes allowances for the costs of the program of enterise and
financial sector resructurn discussed in the reaner of this letter. For this purpose, we have set aside
a total aocation of Lek 1.8 billion in 1994 for the Enterprise Restructuring Agency (ERA), which will
be the only source of public subsidies for enterprise restructuring and wil be available only to the 32
ERA SOEs. Until now, some line ministries have used special investment funds (conservation funds) to
fminae operations and investments of the SOEs in their portfolio. This is not consistent with our reform
progrm  and we will renove these funds. We have identfied all misrial conservation funds.
Effective from Jamnary 1, 1995, we will limit the use of conservation funds to SOEs in ERA and PIP,
and oeting subsidies for SOEs in ERA, PIP and selected utilities, which may now not be able to cover
their operating costs given current levels of administered prices. Further, we agreed with the World Bank
on measures to ensure satisfactory implementation of the 1994-96 PIP, including detailed project
deciption and economic appraisal prior to proceeding with the invesanents. By June 1995, we will also
agree with the World Bank on measures to ensure satisfactory implementtion of the 1995-97 PIP.
9.    The state-owned banks have been under pressure to extend loans to state enterpnses and we have
extended government guarantees (including guarantees of principal or interest or payment of interest on
such loans by the Government) on some of these loans, such as guaranteed loans to the National Housing
Agency. We recognize that goverment expendr  include disbursemen  on such loans and in order
to ensure greater  anspaency of goverment expenditures and liabilities, as well as support the
inependent operation of our banks, we will no longer issue any such guarantees on loans by domestic
banks. We therefore adopted a law prohibiting BoA, MoF and the line ministries from extending any
guarantees to loans by domestic bans  to SOEs, govemment agencies or private entites. We will ensure
condnued agreement prohibiting BoA, MoF and the line ministies from extending any guarantees to
loans by domestic banks to SOEs, govermn  agencies or pnrvate sector entities throughout the execuion
of the EFSAC program.
Enstprise Sector Reform
10.   As a result of the extreme isolation and ceftrlizaon of the previous regime, land, labor and
capital were shielded from market forces, preventng the emergence of a competitive economy capable
of producing needed and desirble goods and services on a sustable basis. Domestic enterprises
suffered as a resut of their isolation from the influence of international prices, access to modern
thology, and interal and external competition. Excess labor, inappropriate investments and outmoded
equipment were the visible consequences.
11.   We see no altemative for Albania other than to maintain today's open economy and to fillly
integrate itself in the European family of nations. Thus, we are aware that this will imply a substantid
shift of resources to those sectors in which our country enjoys coprative advantage, In the process,



35                4      ~~~~ANNEX A
Page 4 of 11
many of the industries inherited from the past will have to shrink. We also realize that the private sector
is best placed to guide the reconversion of our economy, and therefore we intend to transfer into private
hands as many public assets as possible, and provide the appropriate legal, finaial and regulatory
framework for private sector develmet.
12.   We have successfidly privatized the agricutural sector, and are proud of the fact that a
considerable p  of the economic growth in 1993 can be directly attrbuted to the rebound of   tur
production resulting from its privatization. For non-giculturl enteprise, our main objective has ben
rapid privatiton for both small and large SOEs. To carry out this mandat, we established two
institutions in 1991. The National Agency for Privatization (NAP), an agency under the Council of
Miisters, has regulatory and administaive functions and is responsible for approving privatization
transactions. The Prepamory Commission for the Pross of Privatization (PCPP) is an inter-ministeral
body primarily responsible for the preparaton of privatiaion cases. Boh institunions have established
local offices in each district of the country to decentalize the privatization process. This decenaization
has enabled us to handle privatiaion at the local level without over-axing the limited institutional
capacity of NAP. In mid-1993 we put in place a high-level governing board to provide policy
coordination with other minstries and to provide the needed policy support for the initiatves of NAP,
our main privatization authority.
13. Results to date have been positive. The vast majority of small-scale units (with up to 10
employees) in the retail trade, services and handicrafts were privatized by end-1992, mostly through
direct sale to employees at advantageous prices or auction. The vitaLity and growth of this recently
privatized sector is highly visible in Tirana and other major cities. The privatization of remaig assets
proved more complex than originally envisioned. A major step forward was achieved after May 1993,
when the Council of Ministers passed Decree 248. This Decree established the procedures to be followed
for the rapid privatization of small and medim scale enterprises (i.e. enterprises with up to 300
employees and which have a book value of less tham US$500,000). In line with the provisions of this
Decree, auctions, run by the district branches of NAP, are the main technique for the privafization of
these enterprises. The success of this process has been impressive and as of today, over 750 enterprises
and units have been privazed under Decree 248. Of these, more than 350 were sold to employees.
The NW= mader the EFSAC
14.   The strategy that we have adopted, and for which we request World Bank support, consists of:
(i) rapid privatization of most state assets, and a definition of a cleat fhaework for dealing with
resource-based industries, utilities and quasi-atual monopolies and (ii) creation of a vehicle for orderly
downsizing and preparation for prvatization of a number of socially important SOEs, including the
provision of adequate budgetary resources. The elements of this program are discussed in the next few
paragraphs.
15.   RestrFctl"Ing  and Ptivatition of S01b.  We bave prepared a comprehensive stateg for
dealing with SOEs, wbich will enable us to focus our action on rapid privaization (including liquidation)
of as many enterpries as possible. We have classified Albanian SOEs into three major groups to
facilitate the implementation of the reform progam: (i) public ulities and resource-based SOEs, (ii)
problem SOEs in BRA and (iii) all other SOEs.



A36                                       A
Page 5 of 11
16.   Group 1 - Publc Utiltes ad Resource-Based SOEh. As of today, this group includes 5O-60
SOEs which have the greatest-potental vahe in the econom, such as the utiities, and the oil and gas,
Chrome and copper sectors. For resource-basd nteprises, we wil seek intemational assistance-to
prepare individual privatization strategies, aimed at attacting foreig investors or parters. We believe
that these entprises can atact finacig for their investmet needs through foreign investments, joint-
vesnre or partrships, supplier financing or even foreig banks. Budgetary fuids will be provided to
tis gup of enterprises only to the extent that their investes are included in the annual invesm
budget of the cental government as agreed with the World Rank For public utlities in PIP which may
now not be able to cover operatin costs due to curren levels of admnsered prices, the budget will
provide, in a transparent manner, operating subsidies. We will work on the preparation of plans to
diminish these subsidies over time. as dicusd in our Policy Framework Pa.
17.   Currently, many of the entetprises in this group are composed of several fim camying out a
wide rage of inter-relaed actviues. For example, the Albpetrol "famiy" of SOEs contais everhng
from drilling and exploration to pipelines to enterprises producing eqipment used in drilling, as well as
retail gas stations. As part of our Program, we have identfled aU subsidiaries of SOEs in Group 1, and
by December 31, 1994 we will provide a plan acceptable to the World Bank to break-up and privatize
wo-core" activities of Group 1 SOEs. We will ensure satisfactory progress in implementing this plan
to break up and privatize "non-core" activities of SOEs in Group 1, which wil be reclassified into Group
3 and privatized rapidly, with the remaining enterprises in Group 1 carrying out only the core activities.
18. Group 2 - Problmn SOEs in ERA. The 32 most problematic of the large SOEs, which require
nal and financial assance pror to pnrvatiaion (and may include liquidation), are being fianced
by a specal budgetary allocation tough t  Enterprise Retructurng Ageny (ERA). TM. ERA was
reated in July 1993 and reports direcedy to the Council of Ministers. The list of enterprises included in
ERA was agreed upon in December 1993, when the entity's by-laws were approved by the Council of
Miisters. The work program of the ERA has been developed with the assistance of the World Bank,
and budget funds bave been allocated to finance its operations.
19.   During 1994, ERA will continue to provide teical assisce to its enterprises, assisting in the
preparation of studies and action plans, and r mng  specific steps to privatize or restrre (or
liquidate) enterprises. The ERA will also begin to supervise the implemention of those plans. For
SOEs that ERA decides should be closed, the wages to the workers - untl the plant is shut down - and
all other closing costs, should be cowvered by the budget.
20.   The Council of Miisters approved liquidation plans for three ERA SOEs. Also, ERA prepared
restucuing plans (including privatization) for five additional ERA SOEs. Finally, ERA is committed
to completing, by June 1995, privatzaton or liquidation of at least 12 out of 32 ERA SOEs.
21.   We adopted ERA operatioal guidelines, and approved the amount of budgetary rsurces for
ERA for 1994. The amount of 1995 budgetary resources for ERA wiUl be approved in early 1995.
22.   Group 3 - Other SOFA. Group 3 includes all other SOEs. This group is currenty composed
of approxiately 500 small and medium SOEs and maproxmtly 40 large SOEs. Small and medium
SOs will be privadzed by way of Decree 248. As to arge SOBs, the main emphasis will be on the
speed of their transfer into private hands so that steps to revitalize/rationalize the enterprises can be
implemetd as early as possible. To accomplish this, the scheme should be simple and able to be



37                                A
Page6 of 11
implemented rapidly. We expect that in a majority of cas, the SOE's managers and employees wil be
the buyers. Privaization smes will take th  into account. We are  urrey lookg into the various
options for privatizaton, includng the possibility of sae by auctions, without a reseve price, with or
without vouchers, and which give a certWin discount to employees and managers. Some SOEs may need
to be rapidly corporatized to facilitate auctions. resuting in ownrship by multiple shareoders.
23.   We have privaized about over 750 smal and medium SOEsL Furthermore, by Jue 1995 we will
have privatized an addition  200 small andium SOEs.
24.   By June 1995 we intend to Private at les 12 lare SOEs.
25.   We will not provide any budgetay fimds to Group 3 SOEs, which wl have to meet a market
test for their working capital and investmeat needs. Financing may be provided by bans, should these
SOEs be foiu  creditworthy according to intentionaly rognid commercial baking praces. In
accordance with earlier Goverment decisions, stae bans will no longer be directed to make credits to
SOEs. We will ensure that political pressure is not imposed on the banks on behalf of enterprises.
National Commercial Bank (NCB) wil be prohibited from leing to Group 3 SOEs for new investmen,
however, NCB allowed to will be allowed to lend funds for working capital needs and trade finamcing.
26. In addition, we have agreed with the World Bank on procedures for monitoring the privatization
process, which shuald be fully operational by September 30, 1994. We will coti e satisfactory
progress in monitoring the privatization throughout the execution of the BFSAC program.
inanal Sector Rform
27.   Sector Problems. We are commied to restruc       the banking system and devdopig the
financial sector to efficiently itemediae resources to the private sector. The current stuctu  of the
bankng system resuts from the move to a two-tier banking system implemened between 1991 and 1993.
In 1991 the State Bank of Albania, which traditionaly conolled all central and comercial banking
functions, was broken up. The resut was the creatio of a separate Central Bank (Bank of Albania), and
three specialized saowned bank: (i) the National Commriadl Bank (NB), holding about 75 peren
of all credits to etprises; (ii) the Savings Bank (SB), holding about 85 percent of household deposits;
and (iii) the Rural Commerial Bank (RCB), which succeeded the Bank for Agriculture and Development
(BAD) in late 1993, is the principal bank for the agricultural sector. In April 1992, the Central Bank
Law and the Law for the Banking System (Baking Law) were adopted. Together they provide the
fnmental legal provisions for the operation of a market-based financial system.
28.   Our initial strategy to deal with the bankin sector was: (i) to rrove bad SOE loans from the
books of the ban, and (ii) to insuct banks to lend on a commercial tasis only. In late 1992 the
Government agreed to forgive SOEs' debt nurred prior to July 1992 and still outstanding at end-1992.
A decision was made by the Council of Ministers to annouce the recapitalizadon of the state-owned
banks by the esmated amouLr zf their non-performing loans (Lek 7.2 billion). Provisions were made
in the 1993 budget to cover the estimated inerest payments on the bonds, intded to be used to
recapitalize the banks.   We have delayed issuing the bonds until an asmnt of the
rcpitalion/lquidity needs of the bank can be determn, as we itend for this to be a onetme
capital injection. The reapitaliaion of the banks will take place only in conjunction with an agreed



38                                 ANM  A
Page 7 of 11
strategy for their privatiation. In fact, in spite of our efforts to restructure the banking sector,
inaequate banking practices from the past contiu to affect the fiancial sector, and loss continie to
accrue on lending operations.
29.   Strategy and Program of Acion. Our long-tern view for the Albanian financial sector is a
banking system consist  of small and mediuM-size private banks, which will mobilize deposits and lend
primarily to small and medium-size enterprises, conplementri by a number of non-kng financial
intermediaries, facilitaing commerce and invesment. Our sort-term stategy to arrive at this objecti:-e
will be articulated alongee lines. First, we will work to stregthen the supervisory and regulatory
famework in the financial sector. Second, we will provide aa appropae framework for creating new
private bans and encouraging inrmal money lenders and interediaries to enter the fonnal finacial
intermediation circuit. Third, we wll tigtly monitor the activities of the state-owned banks, by imposing
restrictions on their activities, while ting management and creatg incentives for them to perform
proper lending practices.
Swqvwiion and Regadon
30.   The reform program for the banking sector described in this document is desiped to encourage
and provide incentives for banks to maintain sound operons by improving their baing practices. We
believe this is important in building a healthy and viable financal sector. Our program includes ensuring
that BoA develops a plan to reinforce its Bank Supervision Departme. This plan will be operational
by December 31, 1994, and will strgthen BoA's supervisory capacity and authority to review and
enforce regulations on licensing and prudential banking. BoA has begun on-site inspections of both state-
owned and private banks; and by Jmne 1995, BoA will appoint an on-site inspector with intenational
experience. We will ensure satisfactory progress in shrngt     BoA's supervisory capacity and
authority on licensing and prudential banking, and in performing on-site inspections throughout the
execution of the EPSAC progr.un Anticipating a growig sophisdcation of the banking services, MoF
will carry out a feasibilit study on the needs for a service bureau for transaction and data processing .
31.   We would like to improve and make coniste the accounting standards in the banking sector in
the near fitu. With the assistance of our foreign partners we are currendy developing a new cbart of
accounts for baking institutions. We intend to finalize this work by the end of 1994, and to introduce,
by lune 1995, a new chart of accounts for all commercial banks.
32.   Interest Rates Poicy. Our medium-term goal is to allow interest rates to be dermined by
market forces. In the immediate future, interest rates for Govenment borowing of SB resources will
be set at a level such that SB can offer deposit rates high enough to keep lek-eominated assets
attractive, but low enough that private bans will be able to compete. Once the Treaw  bills auction
begins (with the support of an IMF technical assistance mission), SB will be able to assess and adjust its
market rates on deposits, based on the outcome of the auctions. The Government would have a reference
market rate from which to price SB deposits. Interest rates applied by pnvate banks will be free of
constraints. We have agreed with the World Bank that private bans will not be subject to administered
interest rates. We will ensure compliance with the agreement that private banks will not be subject to
administered interest rates throughout the execution of the EPSAC program.



39     n      .          
Page 8 of 1
PNvadzlg FYwuw    Flows
33.   Fadlitate Entry of New Private Banks. We intend to promote the development of new private
banks on a selective basis. Our strategy is to have sufficient capital adequacy ratios for new private banks
to prevent risky operations from becoming a public liability or injuring depositors. At the same time,
we want to develop tanspaet licensing repiments to encourage entry of efficient and reliable private
entities into he banking sector. We have agreed with the World Bank an revised guidelie fot bank
licensing, including mimum capital re, and have adopted them. Furthermore, we have
developed a program to widely publicize (in mass media. specialized press and professio  fora, both
in Albania and abroad) requitements and procedures for the enty of new private banks. Also, we have
agreed with the World Bank on Terms of Referencz for an expert to design an action plan to promote
the development of a private banking sector. The action plan will be designed in the next eight mts
and submitted for the approval of the World Bank by December 31, 1994. We intend to implement
measures identified in this action plan by June 1995.
34.   In the overall context of bank licensing and regu!atory policies, we have agreed with the World
Bank and adopted a schedule of capital/asset requiremerts for the establishment of new private banks.
Prvate banks will have to adopt capital adequacy ratLos in the 8-20 percent range, depending on
iternationally recogzized credit rating of the bank/bank owners and other relevant fiactors including type
of license. All bank licensing requirements will be reviewed by June 1995.
35.   The new private banks will have the freedom to conduct their operations, based on free market
(commercial) principles, subject to the exe  of their licenses, and will not be subject to interest rate
controls (on deposits or credits). After ihe first year of operation, private banks will be required to
publish annual reports and to commuicate their main amwal fnancial saents in the press.
36.   Development of Non-Bank  phadl Insttons. To increase the range of financial products
available to the public and to foster the emergence of alternative sources of financing for the emerging
private sector, by December 31, 1994, we will agree witi the World Bank on a strategy to promote the
development of finmce and leasing companies. These institutions can be pivotal in arranging fiancing
for purchases of assets such as buildings, equipme, etc. for enterprises.
State-Owed Banks
37.   Improving financal discipline and strengthening banking practices are the main objectives in the
restrucurig of the state-owned banks. Existing state banks each have particular problems and needs.
NCB is the largest bank in terms of total assets. Its liabilities consist mostly of enterprise deposits, SB
loans and re-financing from BoA. In addition to the k.ms made prior to June 1992, about a quarter of
the loans made since then are in arrears. These loans were made to both private and state terprises.
SB, on the other hand, has an overwhelming share of household deposits and a large network of
branches. Its lending performance, however, has been worse than NCB's. As of today, 80 percent of
its short-erm lending portfolio is overdue. Finally, RCB which was licensed in September 1993, carries
out the normal banking functons of former BAD, concentratig on lending to agncultual enteprises.
It is benefitting from substantil technical assisace provided with the support of the World Bank
(through the Agricultural Sector Ad t Credit). However, the most recent results show about 12
percent of the RCB loan portfolio in arrears, pardy due to specific centraly imposed lending operations.



40                                ANNEA
Page 9 of II
38.   Audts of the stat-owned banks. Our first stp will be to conduct a thorough analysis of the
status of the state baks' portfolio. To this effect, we have agreed with the World Bank on Terms of
Reerence for externa audits of state-owned banks, to be performed by internationally recognized
acuning and auditing firms. These audits will be of the 1994 accounts, and will start in Jamuary 1995.
By June 1995, we will submit these audits to the World Bank. In addition, by December 1994 we wil
draft Terms of Reference acceptable to the World Bank for portfolio reviews of the state-owned banks
and initiate thse portfolio reviews in early 1995.
.39. We agreed with the World Bank on a programn to limit the banking activities of NCB and SB, by.
restricting their lending and/or funding activities. The objectives of these restrictions are to encourage
the banks to improve their banking practices, by lending only to creditworthy clients, without govermment
guarantees and to concentrate (in the case of SB) on the market with which they are most filiar.
Through this program, we hope to resolve and avoid many of the problematic siuations that ocured
in the past, and continue to hinder the operations (and survival) of the state-owned banks, such as bad
loans, inter-bank arrears and under-capitalization. In order to address the issue of inter-bank arrears, we
have developed a plan to clear all interbank arrears and cleared all interbank arrears among state-owned
banks (NCB, SB, BAD, RCB) as of December 31, 1993. Additionally, by December 31, 1994 we will
clear the NCB capital obligation to BoA with the equivalent value of equity of MoF investment in NCB.
This revised capital and ownership structure of NCB is considered a component of the plan of actions to
improve management of NCB.
40.   National Co_merdal Bank (NCB). The main restrictions on NCB wil be its access to sources
of funds to service the Bank's losses. In accordance with the agreed program, we have limited NCB's
deposit-aking to enterprise deposits and eliminated its borrowing from state-owned banks, except by
explicit authorizaton of BoA. Although they are not obliged, BoA may lend to NCB and extend credit
based on its own assessment of the soundness of NCB's performance. By constraining NCB's access to
funds, we hope to encourage NCB management to improve its lending practices, and to look for the best
and most solvent clients, both private and state-owned. NCB will be prohibited from lending to SOEs
in Group 3 for new invements, however, NCB wil be allowed to lend funds for working capital needs
and trade financing.
41.   As mentioned, NCB is facing an acute problem of bad loans extended to SOEs after June 1992.
A rapid solution to this problem is necessary. Therefore, we developed a plan of actions to manage NCB
and to deal with NCB's SOE bad loans. In addition to SOE deposits, NCB's curn  deposit base
includes nearly Lek 1 billion from households. These deposits should not be considered in the plan to
countrbalance NCB's bad loans fm the SOEs. Furthtrmore, through 1994 we will continue to work
on the strategic options for NCB and by June 1995, we will submit a plan acceptable to the World Bank,
to restuctr and privatize NCB.
42.    Savinp Bank (SB). In accordance with the program, SB will condinue to provide a safe place
for individuals to deposit their funds, and to play a significant role in the domestic payment system.
Given SB's inexerience in lending to the enterprise sector, SB's lending wi}l be limited to MoF,
households and private sector enterprises with whom it has an established deposit relationship. Therefore,
direct inter-bank lending by SB to NCB will stop at that date. To give SB an incentive to increa loan
collection, we have restncted SB's lending by limiing increases in non-government lending to 150% of
reflows of interest and principal or voluntary rollover by SB of principal with cash interest repayment
on non-government loans outsng  in 1994, Thus, beginning July 1, 1994, the lending limit for SB



41AM
Pageloof 11
will be quarly adjustedx however not exceeg an amount equivalent to 150% of cash rpayment to
SB of principal and iterest during the preceding quart. Tis amount also icludes the voluntary
rollover by SB of principal, provided there is a cash interest repayment. This amount will exclude any
repayment on Treasury bills and Governmet securities. By these acto  we intend to preserve its
stability as well as improve general confidence in the bankig sector, lar    represented in the eyes of
the public, by SB. However, by June 1995 BoA will revis lending ceilings for SB, subject to a reiew
of SB's 1994 peorma   and satisfaory to the World Bank. Also, we haveestablished a credit
committee within SB headquartes to approve credt proposed by the branches, for amoun  above Lek-
S million. Fmialy, as with NCB, we will work on strategic options for the fatr of SB, and by June
199., we will submi a plan accepable to the World Bank, to privatize SB (including the possibility d
the sell-off of branches or entry of a private mmorit investor).
43.   Rura Comnwdal Bank (RCB). We inund to develop and sbmit a program acceple to the
World Bank to privatize RCB by June 1995.
Legal Framework for Entrprise and Thadal Sector Reform
44.   Over the past 18 months, we have been working extensively to create the comprehensive legal
framework for the enis and banking sectors, required to provide the proper fr_amwrk to our
economic transiton process.
45.   We recognize that, as a result of the scope and speed of the legisla -n ngprocess, some of
the regulations now in force are inappropriate or have conflicting proviions. We intend to taP ^U steps
necessay to remy  these shortomings, and to coinue to develop the required legiton to pu .sue the
economic transformation.
46.   We completed the iuventory of legisladon pertining to the enterprise and financial sectors; and
we have established an office with representatio from the Bank of Albania, Ministy of Fmance and
other concerned agencies, to coordinat the legal review of enteprise and fincial sector-related
legislation. Also, we agreed with the World Bank on the work progm of this office. We intend to
initiate the legal review and to complete it by December 31, 1994. Also, by Decemb"r 31, 1994 we wil
develop legislation on bankruptcy pro ings and loan recovery. By June 1995, based on the findins
of the legal review, we will agree with the World Bank on an action program to intuce and/or amend
legislation to suppor the development of the entprise and financial sector (in line with the envisioned
enactment of Civil and Commercial Codes). Priority will be given to eti  cplete legislation on
bankuptcy proceedings for all enterprises as well as comprehensive legislation on loan recovery, together
with efficient enforcement mechanisms. By June 1993, we epect to adopt by the Council of Minsters
the new legislation for bankmuptcy proceedig for all enterprie  nd draft legislation on loan recovery,
which will be presened to Parliament shortly thereafter.
47.   In addition, we have agreed to develop a Public Education Program to inform existing and fitre
bank customes of the legal implications of borrowing and lending practic. The main objective of this
program is to explain to the public the necessity to repay loans on time, and to pro    discipline and
responsible behavior of bank bonrowers. We wiii develop and begn imple_on of the Public
Eduation Program by early 1995.



42              -                  AN=  A
Pagellof 11
NJ I CONudm mdau
48.   In order to effecty prepae and Iplet meu  and actos conceng the refrm  under
tHe npise   d Finac  SeorAdjustmn Craedit, we established a Commtte-for Modernizon
of die Financial Sector (CMS), composed of the Depty Pme Minster, the Governor of BoA, the
Minister of Financ, the Genra Directo of Agny for Foreign Aid and Public nvesme, an the
Fin    Advisor to he Presid. The Conte wi tWam resnibft for overseeig the process
of-_n  a~~'f the prZojt.
49.   Also. we bave agreed with the Word Daenk om m oring and reporting procedur  for the
tao of et prjc.
50.   Basod on the prgm  ouined in hs Lettr of Deveopn  Plicy and in the accompanyn
mai of policy actions, we would libe to eq"   a credi from  the bteon  Development
Asscion, in the  mou    f US$15 milliom equivalent.
Bahkim Kopllom
Dep"t Prm Minite
Piro Didmsp                                      Dylbea Vrioni
Minisr of Fiae                                  Goven  oftm Bak of Albaa



43
ANNEX B
POLICY MATRIX



-  .-                    .    . 44                                       ANNEX B
Page 1 of 5
ALNIA - ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMNT CREDIT
POUCY MATRIX
GENERAL
PWROJECT WAPLWWATWION  . * Etabih * Co _mittor fo
. .derr&tw of    Financi Sootor
- -~       .      - (CWSt), e _lpOO o1 the Deputy--        -   -        
P.im Io nlti Gwoernor of BoA.
..n.stur of Fnne, Getn   Ditor
of Ageny for Foei Aid and Publi
Iveaum_t* "nd iRnancial Advisot
to te Prekt that V i be
re._   for oerseing proJect
mleenatin (OPF"
* Ae with Wodrd ark on moniting
.nd repordng procedures for proect
._nipeentation OPM)
MACROECONOMIC REFORM
* Contlined satifactory performance of    Contimed satsfoactory perormae
the maoreconotlo program             of the numeconotlJ program
(DPMIAFAPI                           (DPMWAFAPI) -
* Saisfactory progress In Imlenwting  * Saatory progress in
agreed 1994-96 PIP (DPMAFAPI)        agred 1995-97 PIP (DPM/AFAPI)
_We In boacke  inde  toAo Govennt OfGicia who wil be responsie fo ensurn th Ompleto of tha ondtn.
OM - Det Pime  dnt. IbA - Gowenor of the Sank of Albarda MoPF I-ideter of fnaie.
MAPA  - enr   retor of Ay   for Foreign Aid and Public Irseent
*  Condion for  oo d tie-she rdease
*- Peaila ande th  ha, eat bea  ffnsli    au



45                                  l= IEB
Page 2 of 5
ALBANA - ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POUCY MATRFX
|:  Am                          I       Ae-     T Actions en -To  S::      Se B cond          95
.____________  ENTERISE SECTOR REOM
1. UTEB RISEF SEC        REFO.M
Grd                           *        sassiy 0    In o the am" (
.,.* denfy mii at nsrvaounds * Effeiv fro 4jan., l9           n us
(MOd)                             of conservat io  e sto 0  In MA
ad P  ad opera.tin subsiik for
SOE lit ERA- PrP en ulectw
utitie (MoPF)
* 8eA. MoF ond fEnsminiss may nt     Conlrwe  Woreem   ha    . bbF
exted an guaraeto hloan by        and line mdnstries may not ecte
domesdti bk to S08E. govee         nY guai te to lon by   do
sagens or prt enttes (DPW         banks to S0E.. govement  Was
of prvate nddtes (DPM)
Gwop 1: Utlle ad Py  rce P      ienty  bsidaie   Group Of 0w I     Satiaoy progress In I_Sm Wng
Bond  SOE                         10M)                               a plan to break-up and pdvatize "nra
core actvit  of Gro  10 SO
Group 2: ERA 80E2             *  ite wok on restuoing Pln for
ERA enterprise (DPW)
* A      ERA operato   gudelie
on"
* Council of MAndserw to approve      Counc of Mhstes to approve
wmount of 1684 budgetar resoure   amout of 1995 budgety 
forERA 0PM)                       flor ERA (DPM)'
* Council of inters t approwveERA   * ERA to oopete pdvato  or
pla to Ikuddt at last 3 ERA  OE2   lWqidtion of at lt 12 ERA 8O0
. -        .      tD~10PM                            10PM)
* ERA to prpa  resuua g pln fo
at at S addional ERA SOE  AFAPI.
2. .RAITI   OF -0 
Mm Hiv p*ivted atet lkw arge
SO. IDPM)
*   vpr   7     60S                  Hve p*ivatedonaddtiona 20
SOE5 . (0PM,                      ewmakewdun SO  (DPW
* A     wih Word Bask on procedu      ConrAnUe satfa   monit*orn of
fornotn puivaton prges            privatsaio progres 10PM)
(DPM



46                                   -ANWEX B
Page 3 of 5
ALBANIA - ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
EiWEPRISE SECTOR REFORM
3. LEGAL FRAMEWIORK FOR           .
ENTERPRN AD FNACIAL
SECTOR
a. Dveapint of mntslW            * Comple  inventor of legislation    * Based on findings of leal mview.
1ia~ggj~   t   tawU  h*4dif   pertaining to the enterpise and      agree with Woid SBan on actn
thosrelain to he tfowing             financal sector (MOF/UoA)            promn to Intduoouanwnd
spek                                                                      legiwlation to support development of
tOe enterpnsoffinanocal setor (in Gine
with envisioned enacoment of CMvi
end Commnercal Codes) (DPM
Establish an office to coordinate the
lga review of enterpdse and financial
sector reated legation 10PM)
b. B ckuptvy andba                                                   * Draft of new  oislation on
recovery Le _atJon                                                        bankruptcy proceedings for al
enterpdses and draft legislaion on
loean recovery to be adopted by
Council of Ministers (MOFO
c  pu..k  Edgomtlon ProWmon  * Agree to develop a Public Education   * Develop and begin implemntaoIn of
co rnmw bsJdng p5afdfn               Program to infonn bank custoners of    a Public Education Program to infonn
tho legal bipatione of borrowing and   bank customers of the egal
landing practies (BoA)              irplraations of borrowing  len ding
practices (BoA)



47                                  ANNKX'B
:age 4 of 5
ALBANIA  ETERPRSE AND FINANCIAL ECTOR AJUSTMENT CREDIT
POUCY MATRIX
Acuons TdwuTo  al*       I                              Siw = u-C;
_____________             F#UYACWM  UCWJR REOORM'________
1. RESTRUCTURKO OF STATE-
OWN£0 RNKS
-        o flamd h*ablIm    * Agree bwidi Woud Sak Of .t .w so
oftu ..wei ..tk ,S .IV bank -              M0 Of N- . n . SS --.
.N    .. a         wi t *b progrm   la Subm *  - Pt" .oucre and
.) elin  NCRboowi  Ihfrms_         prdvAl     m NC   ld eato pdivalb,
owne bm". e2bpt bv       t         55 and RCS, poWow    e
.ath    on of BOa; (aI) lm CB    (SoAIDF
&* &uIttohWoatdank aapOmnof
ti  to manage NCR and to da
with NW    0 bad loa (BOA)
* 8B: i agenement with p am (O)   * BOA to es  nd celings for 58.
to ld ony to Mof. housh     nd     s ubt to a reovw of W8  1994
privfmatw  enuteprise. (B          performnanc  nd eatiefetn  to fth
i     _nongrmentlending lmWited    W        Bank WBoA)-
to150% of reflows of _test an
pdincipal or volunta    by SB of
.                        ~~~~~~ ~                 ~      ~~pdicpl wihcsh Iners
repay.m  on non-govrmen la
otnding In 194 (OoA)
* Establish a cadt comieem wiin SB
hearters to approve odt
prpoed by Om brace. for wna
bove Lek 5 millon (BOA)
*  evep a pln to dea a_ Intsbnk   * Cer NCS capital oblton to SeA
rem (S.AIMF)                       with 1 eivle val6n   Of equity od
.o  nesment  NCRAM by DW   31.
1954 0BA"   (seo nots below
*Ce an Intebank arras am u mong
owned banks (NCM. SB MD. R) s
of Deceater 31, 1993  oA11
b. Strenthe oprtIn  f
.* A       with Wodrd Bak on Tone of   0 Subm* to th Wodd Se8k td  1104
Reference for exteral audits of stats    externalwxits for etateowned bwsic
owned banks (BOA)                  andie portolio reAiw of stae
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ow ned     b rank   (B* A)
Reosd outeN C b   and* wnswip seomt of NC Is consded a obnW nt of te ple of etom t hfiwow meng        of NtR



48                        ~~~~~~ANNE  B
Page 5 of 5
ALNA  ENPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POUCY MATRIX
_        _     _     ___ NACIL  ECORLEOR
23- _iU      cniiG .FRASTRU  .I                                               .
6,phmb _      u|  wIdm    * Oeah.p.tstenthnL.A                  * galaatypragrua(
S       _ie~5moat ,n .ahrtt                                           BOA'. etwStoW apatyWi
.elaw .d .feo .   eAgsan         -   hdtfyto  review ad oft"
buundn and prdnitia bawdap (UN) rqulr N R"emsnelang and
Prudetia baidig ard I~ nd -"
-wod    (BOA)
:~~~~~~~ ,. -                osl 0.4*f 1w nepoisnlSA  * SeA omistr onulWbsatu
, . . . . . . - - . w.t bamatoneI - -- .
* BoA tointoduo"a nw eat of
socaufte for all eamrrinul baits
both primae enW stat".wined (SeA
*Salm cavyn*  out fesibih tud suma
,ees for. mevs bureau for
ftrnsactin and dot proowuin
M--
3 #. FCIATE DWIh  OF           *Agre wift Worl Sank on rawisd     * Rview all bank beaming
MRVATE SAIE                        gidegne for bat Wwbeai  to         requirement (S@A)
-                                   nnants
h AdaptA e       giddlnes for bak
fteeiing to fasbmtat sntu of new
-k_ ba           ining awn
* Ae with Wadt Sut an oe
adque rati In the -%t
deonn* on iterndeaon
m_~d  arit  mdi of buiba
own h n oher revat hate
incin tpeof beuM (BA
* Adept gddunes frp   adu
raftla in the 6-30  ran, dependin
on inkastiadndby reoogriaed Wredt
rati  of baWkibe owners ado
Erdemean ft Incun two of
ben(BOM
's* Develp a pgr n to Dbis
requlrmen----e- resfor the on"tr
of mw p*tva badk  a"
*0 Agre wit Wol Ban on Teoms of   0Agre wit Wordo Sutan aetleOm
Rdfon  for n apee to desin an      Nd to impemnw  meaue to
aanplan to promate developmentof   prmote deveameGf a p
a pdvat baiti * sat (oA)           baiin seao GAMa
* Ae wit Wold t dat pva            * Co*iued areme  wth Wod
banks wE net be subjea to          Banit# thast plv  baits wv  net be
fdritietrod intereaost rteam (BAsubmact t0o*anitstre Ineet ae
ORWE     =51 OF SOA                                                Agr,withWbW8wd atby 0ee.31,
FiA3eAIgfUjT.3M                                                  1994onaftstEaftwgtoplromol
devenaota of Gm    and t
__ ________ __                           -  PiO



-49
ANNEX C
STATISTICAL TABLES



50                               ANNEX C
Page 1 of 4
Annex Table t: Albania -K ry ommcnmi  Intcatols
1992    1093    1094    19ss    1996    09i 7        109   9    2000
Natina Accourts
GDP hOW&                               40       t1       8       7       6       8        6       5
GM (USS mlons)                           2     09    1378    1571    1773       977    2166    2309'  2417
GDP (current Lems mDons)             48475  1103S3  161828  206227" 250112  266?  3,43326  395339 4524
lnvesbnent(a %oIGOP)                     7       9      15      18      19      It       22      23      23
FPublc                                4       5'   10         9       9   g8           7       7       7
Prae                                  3       4       5       9      10       13      t5      16       t6
Bal4nce of Payrents (USS minlions)
Trade Balance                         -454    -479   .461    .439    -452      480   -516    -549    -551
Cunrrn Account (CAB) excl oMcial grants    436    -397    -343    -298    .293    .304    -323    -351    -347
CAB ind offia gra                     -103    -137    -243    .248    -288    -279    -298    -336    -347
CAB hscL grtss % GOP                   -15    -12      -18     -16      -1S     -14     -14     -15     -14
GroasResernesinWeeksof rmpofts           3      13      17      18              19       19      14      14
Pubic Sector (a % of GOP)
Total Revenue                           25      28      28      29      30      30       30      31      31
ToW Euepnditure                         47      40      44      42      39      36       35      35      35
CurrentExpenditure                   43      35      34      33      29      28       28      28      28
Capltl Expendl                        4       5      10       9       9       8        7       7       7
Ovea Balace                            -22     -15     -16     -13      -9      -7      -5       -4      -4
Donmtc Fln n                            is      10       8       4       2       2        1       1       ¶
Prc  and Money
ntnont (WodaMage)                      226      85      21      18      11      10      t0       10      10
C tan In Broad Muony                   153     78       32      27      21      18      ¶6      -¶0      12
admoney as % GDP                        36     20       10       9       7       6       6       -4       3



51                -ANNEX C
Page 2 of 4
Anmx Table 2: Albania - Pubi SecWtorAccount.
(as percent of GOP)
1992   1993    1994    1995    19i8    1997    1998    1999    2000
Current Revenus ofGeneral Government    25      26      28      29      30      30      30      31      31
Tax Revenues                         14      18      1s      22      23      24      24       25      25 -
TumoverTax                         5       4       4       4       4        3       2       0       0
VarousExciseTaxesO  -              3-    4         5       5       5        5       5       5       5
Inpoit Taxes                       3       3       4       6       8       6        6       8       6
Others                             3       5       6       8       9       10      11      14      14
Socla Securfty ContAons               3       3       3       4       4       4       4        4       4
Non,tax Revenues                      2       4       3       2       2       2       2        2       2
Countert Sales Revewues               8       4       3       4       0       0       0        0       0
CurrentExpenditures                     43      35      34      33      29      28      28      28       28
Personnel                            11       8       9       9       8       8       8        7       7
Goods and Services                   10       6       5       5       5       5       5        5       5
Transfers                            19      17      15      14      12      11       1t      11      11
SodalSafetyNet                    14      15      13      12      11       11      11      11      11
Pubic Enterprises                  5       3       2       2       2       0        0       0       0
Others                                2       3       3       3       2       2       2       2        2
Interest                              1       2       2       2       2       3       3        3       3
Savings                                   -18     -10      -7      -4       0       1       2       3       3
CapitaExpenditures                      4        5      10       9       9       8       7       7       7
Overall BaacrA                            -22     -15     -16     -13      -9      -7      -5      -4      -4
before grants (countrpart saes revenue)  -28   -18     -19    -14       -9  -7          -5      -4       4
Financing                                 22      15      16       13       9       7       5       4       4
Foreign Financing                       6        6       8       9       7       5       4       1       1
DocestUc Fnanncin                       16      10       8       4       2       2       1       1       1
Credit from8ankng System             16      10       8       3       1       1       0       0        0
Treasury Bills                        0       0       0       1       1       1        1       1       1
Memo.
Oirect Taxes                            3        5       6       5       6       7       7       9       9
Indrect Taxes                          10      I1       1 3     17      17      17      18      16      16
PriaryB8abance                        -21      -13-    -14    --t       -7      -4      -2       -t      0



52                                      AINEX C
Page 3 of 4-
Aurw Tabe3 AlIa Balnce of Panate
(mBa.. of US doom)
10n2   1093    1094   195    1006    1997    1099    1999    2000
'esourceBlance  -447    .62    45W2   --36    -565    688    427    .884    -68S
Trade Salano                      .454    47       -461    439    4        -480   -S18    .649    -55
E*Gi eof Goods                   70    109      130    154    177       196      22     245      271
mportsfoods                     524     565    591    592    828        678     7         5      62
Noa-aoruvlcessae                   43       43      -01    4 7    -103    -108    11t    -114    -117
Net Fadtor  onw                       -3      435       1      -2      -4      .5      4        8      -9
FactorRSelWb                         1       3       a       8      11      14      15      17      18
ltrestanReswes                    1       3       6       8      11      14      1S       17     18
Othes                             0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0
Faor Paymt                          36      38       7      10      15      19      22      24      27
_st Ou            .          36      38       7      10      15      19      22      24      27
MLT Ineres                      3       5       7      10      15      19      22      24      27
Short-ei                       33      33       0      0       0       0        0       0       0
oths                              0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0
PrIvate TransfesbWrkers Ren_mt )      148    200    210    240    265         289     310    320      330
OfiialTranse.    332    260                           100      50      25      25      25      1S       0
CAB sd  ial tansfs                      435    497    -343    -298   -23    -304    -323    -351    -347
Cunrat AcountBalan:e                    -103   -437    -243   -248    -268    -270    -296    -338    -347
Drc Foregnln veasn# t                     10      30     45      50      60      s0      60      60       60
No MLTFIows                              44       99     130     67      69      64      65      66      64
YUo   Bank                              2      29      40      27      24      19      20      21      19
EDRD                                    0       2      15      15      1S      15      1S      15      15
Pwbs Ckib                              42      68      70       8       5       5       5       5       5
ComnecalBON"                            0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
SbpupplsandExpotCudlts                  0       0       5      1S      20      20      20      20      20
PFratheNaon-Gurateed                    0       0       0       2       5       5       5       5       5
NothortTenm                               0        0       0      0       0       0        0       0       0
CapimNEl                                   0       o
UnkblnfldSurces                           71     114      58    141      164     180     198    235    247
Grn for DeO  Foenoves (10% of stik ofansW )               50
Debt Bubadc                                              40
OveraUalance                              14     10      40      10      25      25      25      25      25
t4tb ntp  In Rsrvs -   Ics)              -14    -107     -40    -10    -25       -25     -25     -25     -25
Chag in Gro  Reserv  (-  In)           27    -119    .40    -10    -25        -25     -25    .25      -25
IMP                                 14      12      21      18       1      4       4        .4      4
ChaWn In Arear     In(+ ease)                        .M
00tForo ess,                                          409
rs R      _sv  (end of pe"             31     150    190    -200    225    250    27S         300     325



53                                   ANNEK C
Page 4 of 4
Annex Tab4le 4: A# a-KtondaCMOunt
1992    113    1994    10og 1 99 1997    1998    1999    20Q0
GOPatMadaet     s       ---           - 100    10      100     1O0     1OO     100     100     100      100
Agru_ '                 -            40      41      42      42      43      43      42       32      32
Indusby andMininq                    13      10          -   9        8       9       S       6  -
-- :-    -Cons           .            4       7-      7       7       .       7       7       .i
Tfanhpoitutton                        2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2
Otheserveios                        -39      40      39      39-    39       40      40      30       30
Resource Balance                       -79    .51      40      -34     -31     -30     -29      -29    -28
0Epoats,GNFS                         12      11      11      12      12      12      13      14       15
hmpoats.GNFS                         9t      63      51      46      43      42      42      42      42
Expenditures                           179     151     140     134    131      130     129     129     128
Conpon                              172     142    125      116     112     109     107      106     104
PrIvae                           151     128     111     102      99      96      94      94       92
GeneralGovemrnment                21      14      14      14      13      13      13       12      12
Gross omerct Invesbmn                 7       9      15      18      19      21      22      23      23
Public                            4       S      10       9       9       a       7       7        7
Prb,ate                           3       4       5       9      10      13      15      16       16
Gross omresdc Savng                    -72     -42     -25     -16     -12      -9      -7       6       -4
Not Factor lncone                    -5      -3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
NoetCuwentTransbrs                   69      42      22      18      16      16      15      15      14
FolgenSavls                             15      12      18      16      1S      14      14      15      14
GrossNational Savlngs                   *8      -3      -3       2       4       6       8       a       9
GODP Gowth Re                          -10     I1        8       7       6       6       6       5       5
AWrcukure                            18      14      10       9       7       0       5       4       4
Induatyy                            40      -10       0       2       3       4       5       5       5
Construction                          5      32      12       8       7       7       7       6       6
Tmnsportaon                         -20      13       6       5       5       5       5       4       4
OthrServcu                            5      12       8       7       7       7       7       a       6
Annex TaIbk  5: 1 _Abml - Deb  nd Debt Iicato
1992    19       1994    1995    1996    1997   1998   1999   2000
Exfteal Debt (US$ uii          624.6   736.0   687.2    473.8   43.8    60.2  661.2  721.1  77.
Exobmal dsWGDP(i %)             90.3    67.1    64.4      30.2   30.7      30.3   30.S   31.2   32.2
JUzeert paymeuXGNPS %)          40.8    27.9      4.5      5.6     6.9     7.7    7.8    7.8    7.7
Debt Service ad*                40.8    27.9      4S       5.6     10.2    13.4   12.8   12.3   11.7



55
ANNEX D
TMEABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENIS



56
Page l of I
1.    Time taken to prepare:            one year
2.    Project prepred by:               Government with assistance of IDA staff
3.    Pre-appraisal mission:            April 11-22, 1994
4.    Appraisal mission:                May 23-27, 1994
5.    Negotiations:                     June 14-15, 1994
6.    Planned Board presentation:       August 2, 1994
7.    Expected project completion:      December 31, 1996



57
ANNEX E
*TATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALBANIA



: . -:     :-58
Page 1 of l
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALBANA
-       : . -    A. V AUM          OF MAt
(As of Jlue 27, 1994)
USS Minio
Cred}    Ficl                         :.     .        -.       --                (tASS Camnto)
2404     1992     Republi of Abaia  CcclIons Pect                                41.1       6.5
-2461     I        Republi of Aban   Rurall PoVr Alviai                          2.4        0.3
2492     19        Republi of Aboan   TehknialAistaE fof Eonomic Reform          4.0        3.6
2499     1993     Republic of Albaia  Tnsporbtastrcture                          18.0      16.9
2524     1993     Republic f A       Agriculue Sector Austment                   20.0      14.S
2534     1994     Republc of Alban   Housig                                      IS.0      12.4
2543     1994     Repubict of Albania  Socil Safety Net                          5.5        4.8
2544     19       R blic of Albia  Labor Maket Development                       SA         4.8
26102    1994     Republi of   a    Durs Waer& Spply                            1         11.9
ToWal                                     123.0
Of Whbic: Repaid                      -
Total Now HEldd by IDA                    123.0
Ttal Amount Sold                           0.0
Of Whih: Repa                         0.0
Total Undisbrsed
B. STATE OFID                   FI
(As of June 27, 1994)
There are as yet so IFC opeatio in Albania
1   lTb  stau  of thos projects is desibed in a separat repo  on a BanIDA financed pojects in exeugion.
wbich is updated twice yealy and cdeolated to he Exective Direco  aon April 30 and October 31.
2-  Not yet dctdv.



