Report No. PIC469
Project Name         Albania-Enterprise and Financial Sector...
Adjustment Credit
Region                Europe and Central Asia
Sector                Enterprise and Finance
Project ID No.       ALPA8257
Principal             Government and Bank of Albania
Date PID Prepared     May 17, 1994
Appraisal Date        May  23-27,  1994
Board Date            August 2, 1994
Background
1. Albania has been implementing a stabilization program since mid-
1992. In 1993 Albania enjoyed one of the highest growth rates in
Europe (11 percent), while inflation stabilized at less than 2 percent
a month since the middle of the year. These results have been
achieved despite very difficult starting conditions. The collapse of
production output in Albania was among the most extreme in Eastern
Europe: it is estimated that output fell by about 40 percent between
1990-1992. This resulted in a fiscal crisis of unprecedented
dimensions with monthly inflation between the 10-15 percent range.
Government expenditures rose to about 58 percent of GDP in the first
half of 1992 with the deficit exploding to 52 percent of GDP. The
high inflation and the collapse of production in export earning
sectors led to the virtual exhaustion of foreign exchange reserves.
Albania, which used to be a net exporter of food products, became
heavily dependent on food aid.
2. In mid-1992, a newly elected Government engaged in a program to
restore public order and economic stabilization, supported by a rapid
mobilization of international aid that included a 12 month Stand-By
Arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in July 1992; a
three-year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) of IMF which began in July 1993; balance of payments
and emergency support from EU/G24; and critical imports and sector
adjustment credits from the World Bank. The stabilization program
consisted of: fiscal consolidation, tight monetary policy and
structural reform (pricing, exchange and trade system liberalization,
banking reform and privatization).
3. The results of the program have been much better than expected.
Besides the lowering of inflation and GDP growth, the ratio of the
deficit to GDP fell from 44 percent in the first half of 1992 to 16
percent in 1993. Construction, transportation and service sectors
have been growing rapidly and urban unemployment had fallen to less
than 15 percent by 1993.
Description
4. The basic objective of the proposed credit is to support the



development of a strong and efficient private sector, in all areas of
economy. The Government's program for the enterprise sector, which is
to be supported by the proposed EFSAC, continues work on the actions
taken so far and introduces necessary adjustments to accelerate
privatization (including liquidation) of as many enterprises as
possible. The program is based on three main areas of action: (i)
streamlining budgetary support for SOEs, by clearly identifying which
enterprises are to be allowed access to public resources and under
which conditions; (ii) restructuring and privatizing of SOEs including
the use of the Enterprise Restructuring Agency (ERA) for orderly
downsizing and preparing of a number of socially important SOEs; and
(iii) improving the monitoring and coordinating of the privatization
process.
5. The Government's long-term view for the financial sector is one
of a banking system consisting of small and medium-size private banks,
which will mobilize deposits and lend primarily to small and medium -
size enterprises, complemented by a number of non-banking financial
intermediaries, facilitating commerce and investment.
6. The strategy to develop the financial sector will entail three
components: first, reforming and restructuring the state-owned banks;
second, providing an appropriate framework for creating new private
banks and encouraging informal money lenders and non-bank financial
intermediaries to enter the formal financial intermediation circuit;
and third, improving the overall banking infrastructure by
strengthening the supervisory and regulatory framework in the
financial sector.
7. Over the past two years, both the Government and Parliament have
introduced a rather large number of new laws addressing various
aspects of economic reform. Due to the size of the task that was
initiated, however, there remain major weaknesses in the legal system,
including some contradictions, particularly in the areas of bankruptcy
and loan recovery.
8. Under the EFSAC Program, the first phase of the legal framework
reform will be completed by early 1996, at which time Albania will
have the appropriate set of laws, including accounting and auditing,
bankruptcies and loan recovery, as well as Civil and Commercial Codes.
The Government will complete the inventory of legislation pertaining
to the enterprise and financial sector. This inventory will be used
as a starting point to asses the extent and appropriateness of the
existing laws, given the needs of the enterprise and banking sector in
Albania.
The Proposed Credit
9. The proposed IDA credit, in an amount equivalent of SDR10.6
million (US$15 million equivalent) will be disbursed in two tranches
and will conform to the usual procurement procedures for such
operations. Technical assistance required for both the preparation
and implementation of this operation are being provided through the
IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (2492-
ALB), as well as through a Japanese grant.
-2-



10. The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoF) will administer the
credit through its existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which is
administering other IDA credits.
11. Coordination and implementation of the reform program will be
monitored by a Committee for Modernization of the Financial Sector
(CMFS), composed of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Governor of BoA,
the Minister of Finance, the Director of the Agency for External Aid
Coordination and Public Investment Coordination and the Financial
Advisor to the President. The World Bank will monitor the
implementation of the project, with the help of monitoring reports and
procedures agreed with the Government, the Committee's reports and
supervision missions.
Environmental Aspects
12. The proposed operation has be placed in Category "U" according to
the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment. This
operation does not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Point:    Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



