Page  1
January 11, 1995
Deputy Prime Minister
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard 
Tirana, Albania
Dear Minister Vrioni:
Re:
Albania Credit No. 2649 ALB
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Amendments to Development Credit Agreement
This letter refers to the Development Credit Agreement, dated August 22, 1994, 
between the International Development Association (the Association) and Albania for 
the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (the Credit Agreement).  This 
also refers to recent communications regarding the use of customs certificates as 
documentation for withdrawal applications for disbursements against imports under the 
Credit, as well as to a change in the procurement procedures under the Credit 
Agreement.
          We are pleased to advise you that the Association has agreed to amend the 
Credit Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 3.03 (c) (ii) is revised to read:
"retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills receipts and 
other 
documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such 
expenditures.
2.
Paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
"2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of less than $1,000,000 each shall be awarded:
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provide that such practice is satisfactory to the Association."
This amendment becomes effective as of August 22, 1994, the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Kindly indicate your agreement to the foregoing by signing, dating and returning 
the enclosed copy of this letter.
Warm regards,
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Director
Central Europe Department 
AGREED 
By /s/
Authorized Representative for
Ministry of Finance, Albania
Date:
January 23, 1995
Page  2
