                                                                                  E4410


              Environmental Management Plan Checklist and Format
                                  for Low-Risk Topologies

For low-risk topologies, an alternative to the commonly used “full text” EMP format is to have a
checklist approach. The goal is to provide a more streamlined approach to preparing EMPs. This
checklist-type format is a “pragmatic good practice” approach to be user friendly and compatible
with safeguard requirements.
The checklist-type format attempts to cover typical mitigation approaches to common low-risk
topologies with minimal temporary localized impacts. It is anticipated that this format provides
the key elements of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to meet World Bank Environ-
mental Assessment requirements under World Bank safeguard policies (see Annex 2).
The EMP template (Annex 1) format has two parts:
• Part I: constitutes a descriptive part (“site passport”) that describes the project specifics in
  terms of physical location, the institutional and legislative aspects, the project description, in-
  clusive of the need for a capacity building program and description of the public consultation
  process. This section could be up to two pages long. Attachments for additional information
  can be supplemented if needed.
• Part II: includes the environmental and social screening in a simple Yes/No format (Section
  A) followed by proposed mitigation measures for any given activity (Section B) and a tem-
  plate for a monitoring plan for activities during project construction and implementation (Sec-
  tion C). It retains the same format required for standard World Bank EMPs.


Application of the EMP-Checklist to the ESME Kenya
For low-risk topologies, the practical application of the EMP-checklist would include the filling
in of Part I to obtain and document all relevant site characteristics and activities. In Part 2 the
type of foreseen activities, would be checked and the resulting provisions listed in Annex 2 high-
lighted (e.g. by hatching the field or copy pasting the relevant text passages into the special pro-
visions of the tender documents).
The entire filled in tabular EMP is additionally attached as integral part to the works contract
and, analogous to all technical and commercial terms, has to be signed by the contract parties.
For the monitoring of the OGL distributor’s safeguards due diligence, attention should be given
early to Part C of the EMP Checklist, the monitoring plan. This should be developed specifically
for each OGL distributor and in necessary detail, defining clear criteria and parameters which
can be included in the Grant Agreement, which reflect the adoption of environmental sustainabil-
ity measures and which can be observed/measured/ quantified/verified by GVEP during grant
implementation. Part C would thus be filled in during the design process to fix key monitoring
criteria which can be checked during and after implementation for compliance assurance.




                                                                                                   1
ANNEX 1:               Format for Environmental Management Plan



                      Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
                    Energy Small and Medium Enterprise Project
                                      Kenya
                                     (28th November 2013)

PART I: Activity Description


1. Introduction
The $30 million Energy Small and Medium sized Enterprise (ESME) support in Sub-Saharan
Africa Trust Fund (SATF), has the objective of fostering local private sector entrepreneurship
and investment in the provision of energy services in remote, un-served and under-served regions
within a number of Sub Saharan African countries. The aim is to support the establishment and
development of stable and viable privately run enterprise and business models that will increase
access to reliable, sustainable, and affordable modern energy services in peri-urban areas, small
towns, and rural areas within the selected countries.
To implement this project, the Government of Russia (GoR) asked the World Bank to manage
this trust fund and to closely collaborate with the Global Village Energy Partnership (GVEP)
International. This agreement was formalized with the signing of an Administration Agreement
between the World Bank and the GoR on March 19, 2009 for the ESME support in SSA project.
In 2012, the project’s closing date was extended to 31st August 2014 and the Administrative
Agreement is being amended to give GVEP the responsibility of implementation agency in Ken-
ya and Senegal.
To ensure adequate environmental and social management during the project implementation in
Kenya and Senegal by GVEP as implementation agency, and to comply with the national envi-
ronmental laws and the World Bank’s Safeguards Policy, this Environmental and Social Man-
agement Framework (ESMF) was developed as part of project preparation and GVEP will be
responsible for its implementation.

2. Project objective
The development objective of this project is to support additional financing and Technical Assis-
tance to Small and Medium Entreprises (SMEs) in selected countries Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)
countries to strengthen their capacity in providing energy services to poor communities in SSA.
Specifically, this project will finance activities to increase access to modern energy services in
rural and peri-urban areas isolated from the main infrastructure networks in selected African
countries through the increased involvement of the local private sector SMEs in the decentralized
supply of energy services. There will be a particular focus on building the capacity of the local
private sector and community based organizations to develop and manage energy service deliv-
ery and utilization.

                                                                                                2
3. Project description
In Kenya, the project will focus on support for distributors of off-grid lighting (OGL). The
amount of this financial support is 1.1 million. A “working capital grant facility” will be availed
to existing credible OGL distributors to enable them to meet their working capital needs and,
both obtain sufficient stocks to meet their projected demand, and build a sustainable continuous
cycle of supply for their products.
4. Anticipated environmental footprint

The overall environmental impact of introducing OGL is likely to be positive because these
products will replace inferior lighting alternatives, mainly kerosene and torches (currently avail-
able at rural markets) that typically use non disposable batteries and in general have short life
span (weeks to months). However, the OGL themselves will use disposable batteries and the
environmental impact can therefore be further improved through (i) technology – increasing bat-
tery life and use of safer materials, and (ii) developing incentives for the disposal of batteries.

5. Policy, legal and administrative framework
The mandate of the Ministry of Environment and Mineral Resources is to monitor, protect, con-
serve and manage the environment and natural resources through sustainable exploitation for
socio-economic development aimed at eradication of poverty, improving living standards and
ensuring that a clean environment is sustained now and in the future. However, the National En-
vironment Management Authority (NEMA), established under the Environmental Management
and Coordination Act (EMCA) No. 8 of 1999, is the principal instrument of government in the
implementation of all policies relating to the environment. According to national law, the busi-
ness of solar lanterns distribution does not require any environmental studies.
6. Relevant world bank policies
The ESME project in Kenya will provide financial support to OGL Distributors to help them
scale up their businesses. GVEP International will work with existing modern off-grid lighting
product distributors to enable them to meet their working capital needs, to obtain sufficient
stocks, expand their distribution networks, carry out their own marketing campaigns and other
activities that will allow them to grow their businesses and meet their projected demand. Alt-
hough it is anticipated that the ESME project in Kenya will have mostly positive environmental
impacts, the improper disposal of the solar lanterns’ used batteries could have site specific nega-
tive impacts and therefore the World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 on Environmental Assess-
ment was triggered and the project was classified as EA category B. Sub-projects that could po-
tentially trigger policies on Safety of Dams, Natural Habitats, Forestry, Pest Management, Cul-
tural Property, Indigenous People, Involuntary Resettlement, Projects on International Waters
and Projects in Disputed areas will not be funded under the project.
7. Implementation arrangements
The funds will be channeled through GVEP. GVEP will receive funds from the ESME Trust
Fund administrated by the World Bank, and will pass on these funds to the OGL grantees that
win the competition. The subprojects proposed will be analyzed by GVEP using this ESMF in-
strument in order to ensure the compliance of the national law and the World Bank safeguard
policies. The subprojects will be implemented by OGL distributors. The main teams that will be
involved in the implementation of the ESME-K in-kind support for RE projects program are

                                                                                                  3
GVEP, the Evaluation Committee and the OGL distributors who will be sub-grantees. The
World Bank will supervise the project implementation, including the compliance with the WB
environmental and social safeguards. The Evaluation Committee will be primarily responsible
for approving grant recipients. It will consist of representatives from the private sector, business
and technical experts, and other representatives agreed upon by GVEP and the World Bank. The
EC will elect a Chair from amongst its members.
8. Environmental screening, assessment and management
The EA for Category B subprojects examines the potential negative and positive environmental
impacts and recommends any measures needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for
adverse impacts and improve environmental performance. Therefore, this EMF sets out to estab-
lish the EA process to be undertaken for the sub-projects under the proposed ESME Kenya,
which environmental impact will be assessed according to the completed EMP checklist form.
9. Potential Environmental Impacts


Activity                          Potential Negative Impacts        Mitigation Measures
Sale of solar lanterns            Improper disposal of used         -Educate users on proper
                                  batteries or of broken panels     maintenance of lanterns and
                                  could lead to exposure to         proper disposal of used batter-
                                  harmful chemicals or seepage      ies.
                                  of toxic chemicals into the       - Provide incentives for users
                                  groundwater.                      to return used batteries to dis-
                                                                    tributor or reseller.
                                                                    -Put in place a hazardous
                                                                    waste management plan to
                                                                    properly dispose of returned
                                                                    used batteries



10. Environmental Management Approach
For all sub-project proposals the attached EMP checklist will be completed and a mini-waste
management plan prepared to address the adequate disposal of the used batteries.
11. Monitoring and reporting
Each sub-project will have its own monitoring and reporting requirements, which will be consol-
idated and reported through the GVEP Manager to the Bank on a regular basis.




                                                                                                   4
Part II :      EMP Checklist for Activities


   Section A: (a) INSTITUTIONAL & ADMINISTRATIVE
               Country
           Project title
      Scope of project
           and activity
       Institutional ar-   WB     Project Management             Local Counterpart and/or Recipi-
           rangements    (Project                                              ent
      (Name and con-      Team
                  tacts) Leader)


       Implementation Safeguard        Local Counterpart Su-     Local Inspec-    OGL Distributor
         arrangements Supervision            pervision           torate Super-
       (Name and con-                                                vision
                tacts)


   (b) SITE DESCRIPTION
   Name of site
   Describe site loca-                                           Attachment 1: Site Map [ ]Y [ ] N
   tion
   Who owns the
   land?
   Geographic de-
   scription
   (c) LEGISLA-
   TION
   Identify national &
   local legislation &
   permits that apply
   to project activity
   (d) ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT APPROACH
   Include mini-waste
   management plan
   and other measures
   to help prevent
   inadequate disposal
   of used batteries
   (e) PUBLIC CONSULTATION
   Identify when /
   where the public
   consultation pro-
   cess took place
   (f) INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING
   Will there be any   [ ] N or [ ]Y if Yes, Attachment 2 includes the capacity building program
   capacity building?

                                                                                                     5
Section B: ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL SCREENING

Will the site activity include/involve any of the following potential issues and/or impacts:

Activity and potential issues and/or impacts                                                                 Status                   If YES see additional
                                                                                                                                      references:

1. Building rehabilitation                                                                                   [ ] YES [ ] NO           Activity Box A& B below
   • Site specific vehicular traffic
   • Increase in dust and noise from demolition and/or construction
   • Construction waste
2. New construction                                                                                          [ ] YES [ ] NO           Activity Box A& B below
   • Excavation impacts and soil erosion
   • Increase sediment loads in receiving waters
   • Site specific vehicular traffic
   • Increase in dust and noise from demolition and/or construction
   • Construction waste
3. Individual wastewater treatment system                                                                    [ ] YES [ ] NO           Activity Box A& C below
   • Effluent and / or discharges into receiving waters
4. Historic building(s) and districts                                                                        [ ] YES [ ] NO           Activity Box A& D below
   • Risk of damage to known/unknown historical or archaeological sites
5. Acquisition of land1                                                                                      [ ] YES [ ] NO           Activity Box A& E below
   • Encroachment on private property
   • Relocation of project affected persons
   • Involuntary resettlement
   • Impacts on livelihood incomes
6. Hazardous or toxic materials2                                                                             [ ] YES [ ] NO           Activity Box A& F below
   • Removal and disposal of toxic and/or hazardous demolition and / or construction waste
   • Storage of machine oils and lubricants
   • Procurement or use of pesticides – or formulated products that are in the World Health
       Organization (WHO ) Classes IA and IB, or formulation so products in Class II3

1
  Land acquisitions includes displacement of people, change of livelihood encroachment on private property this is to land that is purchased/transferred and affects peo-
ple who are living and/or squatters and/or operate a business (kiosks) on land that is being acquired.
2
  Toxic / hazardous material includes and is not limited to asbestos, toxic paints, removal of lead paint, hazardous pesticides etc.
3
  Reference: World Health Organization “Recommended Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines to Classification” (IOMC, 2000-2002)
                                                                                                                                                                        6
7. Impacts on forests, natural and/or protected areas                                                [ ] YES [ ] NO         Activity Box A& G below
    • Conversion of forested land, protected areas, or natural habitats for biofuel crops
    • Encroachment on designated forests, buffer and /or protected areas
    • Disturbance of locally protected biodiversity habitat
8. Handling / management of medical waste                                                            [ ] YES [ ] NO         Activity Box A& H below
    • Clinical waste, sharps, pharmaceutical products (cytoxic and hazardous chemical
        waste), radioactive waste, organic domestic waste, non-organic domestic waste
    • On site or off-site disposal of medical waste
9. Traffic and Pedestrian Safety                                                                     [ ] YES [ ] NO         Activity Box A& I below
    • Site specific vehicular traffic
    • Site is in a populated area
10. General land and water issues                                                                    [ ] YES [ ] NO         Activity Box A& J below
    • Contributes to irreversible land degradation, and /or siltation in waterways
    • Includes impoundments in waterways (generally for water extraction)
    • Groundwater extraction


  ACTIVITY BOX                  PARAMETER             GOOD PRACTICES MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
A. General Condi-             Notification & Worker   (a) Consult with the Task Team Lead and World Bank Safeguard Coordinators4 to discuss activities
tions                                 Safety              and the due diligence requirements
                                                      (b) The local construction and environment inspectorates and communities have been notified of
                                                          upcoming activities
                                                      (c) The public has been notified of the works through appropriate notification in the media and/or at
                                                          publicly accessible sites (including the site of the works)
                                                      (d) All legally required permits (to include not limited to land use, water use, resource use, dumping,
                                                          sanitary inspection permit) have been acquired for proposed activity
                                                      (e) All work will be carried out in a safe and disciplined manner designed to minimize impacts on the
                                                          environment and neighboring residents
                                                      (f) Workers’ personal protective equipment (PPE) will comply with international good practice (al-
                                                          ways hardhats, as needed masks and safety glasses, harnesses and safety boots)
                                                      (g) Appropriate signposting of the sites will inform workers of key rules and regulations to follow.
B. General Rehabili-                Air Quality       (a) During interior demolition use debris-chutes above the first floor
tation and /or Con-                                   (b) Keep demolition debris in controlled area and spray with water mist to reduce debris dust
struction Activities                                  (c) Suppress dust during pneumatic drilling/wall destruction by ongoing water spraying and/or in-

4
    Regional Safeguard contact: http//safeguards
                                                                                                                                                           7
 ACTIVITY BOX            PARAMETER           GOOD PRACTICES MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
                                                 stalling dust screen enclosures at site
                                             (d) Keep surrounding environment (side walks, roads) free of debris to minimize dust
                                             (e) There will be no open burning of construction / waste material at the site
                                             (f) There will be no excessive idling of construction vehicles at sites
                              Noise          (a) Construction noise will be limited to restricted times agreed to in the permit
                                             (b) During operations the engine covers of generators, air compressors and other powered mechani-
                                                 cal equipment should be closed, and equipment placed as far away from residential areas as pos-
                                                 sible
                          Water Quality      (a) The site will establish appropriate erosion and sediment control measures such as e.g. hay bales
                                                 and / or silt fences to prevent sediment from moving off site and causing excessive turbidity in
                                                 nearby streams and rivers.
                        Waste management     (a) Waste collection and disposal pathways and sites will be identified for all major waste types ex-
                                                 pected from project activities.
                                             (b) Mineral construction and demolition wastes will be separated from general refuse, organic, liquid
                                                 and chemical wastes by on-site sorting and stored in appropriate containers.
                                             (c) Construction waste will be collected and disposed properly by licensed collectors
                                             (d) The records of waste disposal will be maintained as proof for proper management as designed.
                                             (e) Whenever feasible the contractor will reuse and recycle appropriate and viable materials (except
                                                 asbestos)

C. Individual             Water Quality      (a) The approach to handling sanitary wastes and wastewater from building sites (installation or re-
wastewater treatment                             construction) must be approved by the local authorities
system                                       (b) Before being discharged into receiving waters, effluents from individual wastewater systems
                                                 must be treated in order to meet the minimal quality criteria set out by national guidelines on ef-
                                                 fluent quality and wastewater treatment
                                             (c) Monitoring of new wastewater systems (before/after) will be carried out
D. Historic build-       Cultural Heritage   (a) If the building is a designated historic structure, very close to such a structure, or located in a
ing(s)                                           designated historic district, notify and obtain approval/permits from local authorities and address
                                                 all construction activities in line with local and national legislation
                                             (b) Ensure that provisions are put in place so that artifacts or other possible “chance finds” encoun-
                                                 tered in excavation or construction are noted, officials contacted, and works activities delayed or
                                                 modified to account for such finds.
E. Acquisition of        Land Acquisition    (a) If expropriation of land was not expected and is required, or if loss of access to income of legal or
land                     Plan/Framework          illegal users of land was not expected but may occur, then consult with Task Team Lead and /or
                                                 Regional Safeguard Coordinator
                                             (b) The approved Land Acquisition Plan/Framework (if required by the project) will be implemented
F. Toxic Materials     Asbestos management   (a) If asbestos is located on the project site, mark clearly as hazardous material
                                                                                                                                                    8
 ACTIVITY BOX               PARAMETER               GOOD PRACTICES MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
                                                    (b) When possible the asbestos will be appropriately contained and sealed to minimize exposure
                                                    (c) The asbestos prior to removal (if removal is necessary) will be treated with a wetting agent to
                                                        minimize asbestos dust
                                                    (d) Asbestos will be handled and disposed by skilled & experienced professionals
                                                    (e) If asbestos material is be stored temporarily, the wastes should be securely enclosed inside closed
                                                        containments and marked appropriately
                                                    (f) The removed asbestos will not be reused
                         Toxic / hazardous waste    (a) Waste (i.e., used batteries) are transported by specially licensed carriers and disposed in a li-
                              management                censed facility.
                                                    (b) Temporarily storage on site of all hazardous or toxic substances will be in safe containers labeled
                                                        with details of composition, properties and handling information
                                                    (c) The containers of hazardous substances should be placed in an leak-proof container to prevent
                                                        spillage and leaching
                                                    (d) Paints with toxic ingredients or solvents or lead-based paints will not be used
                               Pesticides           (a) Follow recommend and minimum standards as described in the United Nations Food and Agri-
                                                        culture Organization (FAO) International Code of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesti-
                                                        cides (Rome, 2003)
                                                    (b) Promote use of ecologically based biological or environmental pest management practices (inte-
                                                        grated pest management IPM)

G. Affects forests             Protection           (a) All recognized natural habitats and protected areas in the immediate vicinity of the activity will
and/or protected areas                                  not be damaged or exploited, all staff will be strictly prohibited from hunting, foraging, logging
                                                        or other damaging activities.
                                                    (b) For large trees in the vicinity of the activity, mark and cordon off with a fence large tress and
                                                        protect root system and avoid any damage to the trees
                                                    (c) Adjacent wetlands and streams will be protected, from construction site run-off, with appropriate
                                                        erosion and sediment control feature to include by not limited to hay bales, silt fences
                                                    (d) There will be no unlicensed borrow pits, quarries or waste dumps in adjacent areas, especially not
                                                        in protected areas
                                                    (e) Forested areas/natural areas and protected will not be converted for bio-fuel crop production.
H. Disposal of medi-     Infrastructure for medi-   (a) In compliance with national regulations the contractor will insure that newly constructed and/or
cal waste                 cal waste management          rehabilitated health care facilities include sufficient infrastructure for medical waste handling and
                                                        disposal; this includes and not limited to:
                                                            Special facilities for segregated healthcare waste (including soiled instruments “sharps”, and
                                                            human tissue or fluids) from other waste disposal:
                                                                 a. Clinical waste: yellow bags and containers
                                                                 b. Sharps – Special puncture resistant containers/boxes
                                                                                                                                                           9
 ACTIVITY BOX               PARAMETER                GOOD PRACTICES MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
                                                                   c. Domestic waste (non-organic): black bags and containers
                                                              Appropriate storage facilities for medical waste are in place; and
                                                              If the activity includes facility-based treatment, appropriate disposal options are in place and
                                                              operational
I. Traffic and Pedes-    Direct or indirect haz-     (a) In compliance with national regulations the contractor will insure that the construction site is
trian Safety            ards to public traffic and       properly secured and construction related traffic regulated. This includes but is not limited to
                        pedestrians by construc-              Signposting, warning signs, barriers and traffic diversions: site will be clearly visible and the
                              tion activities                 public warned of all potential hazards
                                                              Traffic management system and staff training, especially for site access and near-site heavy
                                                              traffic. Provision of safe passages and crossings for pedestrians where construction traffic in-
                                                              terferes.
                                                              Adjustment of working hours to local traffic patterns, e.g. avoiding major transport activities
                                                              during rush hours or times of livestock movement
                                                              Active traffic management by trained and visible staff at the site, if required for safe and
                                                              convenient passage for the public.
                                                              Ensuring safe and continuous access to office facilities, shops and residences during renova-
                                                              tion activities, if the buildings stay open for the public.
J. Land and Water       General land and water       (a) Internationally accepted good land use practices in place to minimize land degradation, and /or
                                 uses                    siltation in waterways
                                                     (b) Impoundments of water will not affect the upstream and downstream riparians
                                                     (c) Minimize excessive groundwater extraction and put in place appropriate conservation of water
                                                         measures which can contribute to significant water savings




                                                                                                                                                            10
PART 3: MONITORING
Section            PLAN
         C: MONITORING       PLAN
      Phase                What               Where                How               When                 Why          Cost                   Who
                    (Is the parameter   (Is the parameter   (Is the parameter   (Define the fre-   (Is the parameter     (if not in-    (Is responsible
                       to be moni-         to be moni-         to be moni-      quency / or con-      being moni-        cluded in     for monitoring?)
                          tored?)             tored?)             tored?)          tinuous?)             tored?)       project budg-
                                                                                                                             et)
During activity
preparation

During activity
implementation

During activity
supervision




                                                                                                                                              11
12
