                                         Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00003279



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                           ON A

                                          GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.2 MILLION

                                          TO THE

         GLOBAL VILLAGE ENERGY PARTNERSHIP INTERNATIONAL

                                            FOR

        ENERGY SMALL AND MEDIUM SIZE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT IN
                      SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                           (TF-94542)



                                    June 29, 2015




Energy and Extractives Global Practice
Africa Region
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACCESS       Africa Clean Cooking Energy Solutions Initiative
ASER         Agence Sénégalaise D’Electrification Rurale (Senegalese Rural
             Electrification Agency)
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
EE           Energy Efficiency
ESIA         Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESME         Energy Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
ESMF         Environment and Social Management Framework
EWSA         Energy Water and Sanitation Authority
GVEP         Global Village Energy Partnership International
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ISR          Implementation Status and Results Report
IDA          International Development Association
MHP          Micro Hydro Power
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
OGL          Off-Grid Lighting
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PREMS        Programmes Energétiques Multi-Sectoriels (multi-sector SME energy
             productive enterprises in Senegal)
RE           Renewable Energy
REA          Rural Energy Agency
SHP          Small Hydro Power
SME          Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
SSA          Sub-Saharan Africa
TA           Technical Assistance
TEDAP        Tanzania Energy Development and Access Project
TF           Trust Fund



         Regional Vice President:           Makhtar Diop
         Country Director:                  Colin Bruce
         Senior Global Practice Director:   Anita Marangoly George
         Practice Manager:                  Meike van Ginneken
         Project Team Leader:               Karan Capoor
         ICR Team Leader:                   Karan Capoor
         ICR Lead Author:                   Roman Grüner
                                                   Sub-Saharan Africa

 GVEP: Energy Small and Medium Size Enterprise Support in Sub-Saharan Africa
               Implementation Completion and Results Report


                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet	
A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................ i 
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i 
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii 
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... ii 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ v 
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... vi 
I. Disbursement Profile ..................................................................................................... vi 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 13 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 23 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 24 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 27 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors................... 29 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 30 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 31 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 36 
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 41 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 42 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 43 
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................ 44 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 58 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 59 
A. Basic Information
                                                              Energy Small and
Country:           Africa              Project Name:          Medium Size
                                                              Enterprise
Project ID:        P115401/P117091     L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-94542
ICR Date:          15/05/2015          ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                              GVEP (I) AND
Lending Instrument: TAL                Grantee:               RURAL ENERGY
                                                              FUNDS
Original Total
                    USD 5.00M           Disbursed Amount: USD 8.97M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 10.20M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Global Village Energy Partnership International
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process          Date          Process      Original Date
                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:    17/11/2008 Effectiveness:          04/27/2009
Appraisal:         15/12/2008 Restructuring(s):       06/04/2013
Approval:          03/19/2009 Mid-term Review:        02/28/2014     12/04/2013
                              Closing:                12/31/2012     10/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                              Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:           Moderate
Bank Performance:                      Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                   Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank               Ratings        Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory   Government:         Not Applicable
                                       Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
                                       Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                           Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
Performance:                           Performance:


                                       i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                       QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                             Rating
     Performance                                  any)
 Potential Problem
                                         Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                     None
                                         (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                  Quality of Supervision
                         No                                     None
time (Yes/No):                           (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original       Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                          39           39
Public administration- Energy and mining                       22           22
Renewable energy                                               39           39



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development        60            60
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                    30            30
Rural services and infrastructure                             10            10

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                    At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                     Makhtar Diop
Country Director:       Colin Bruce                      Vera Songwe/Diariétou Gaye
Practice Manager:       Meike van Ginneken               Meike van Ginneken
Project Team Leader:    Karan Capoor                     Juliet Pumpuni
ICR Team Leader:        Karan Capoor
ICR Primary Author:     Roman Grüner

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project development objective of the overall Energy Small and Medium Size
Enterprise (ESME) trust fund (implemented by the World Bank) is to support additional
financing and technical assistance activities designed to strengthen SMEs in providing
energy services to poor communities in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).
                                           ii
The specific objective of the ESME-SSA project—financed by the overall ESME trust fund
and implemented by the Global Village Energy Partnership (GVEP) International—is to
foster local private sector entrepreneurship and investment in the provision of energy
services in remote, un-served and under-served regions within a number of SSA countries.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The objective remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Formally            Actual Value
                                         Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator       Baseline Value
                                            approval         Target        Completion or
                                          documents)         Values         Target Years
                 Number of Government programs supporting SMEs designed with
Indicator 1 :
                 GVEP assistance
                                                                                   4
Value
                                                                           (Mali, Rwanda,
(quantitative or            0                   3               3
                                                                              Tanzania,
Qualitative)
                                                                               Senegal)
Date achieved         06/04/2013           06/04/2013                        08/31/2013
                 Target surpassed. Approval of the ESME grant by the government of
                 Rwanda in August 2013, and of existing grant agreements with the
                 Government of Tanzania, led to the establishment of energy SME-
                 support programs in each country. In Mali, ESME support as part of
                 Additional Financing for the “Household Energy and Universal Access
                 Project (P073036)” contributed to the establishment of the Rural
Comments         Electrification Fund (REF) used to promote rural electrification investments
(incl. %         undertaken by private operators. In Senegal, the rural energy agency
achievement)     actively participated in the project sub-grant evaluation committee, and
                 continues to work with GVEP in expanding support for SMEs in Senegal
                 known as Programmes Energétiques Multi-Sectoriels (PREMS).
                 .
                 Sources: GVEP progress reports
                 World Bank Report ICR00002627, March 28, 2013

                   Number of SSA energy SMEs that reached government or commercial
Indicator 2 :
                   funding thanks to GVEP technical support.
Value
(quantitative or            0                      2                             10
Qualitative)



                                             iii
Date achieved            06/04/2013          06/04/2013                     10/31/2014
                   Target surpassed. The project supported seven (7) energy SMEs
                   distributing solar Off-Grid Lighting (OGL) appliances and two (2) small
                   hydro project developers that were awarded government funding in
                   Rwanda. In Tanzania, the project supported one (1) small hydro project
                   that successfully raised commercial finance from a local bank.
Comments
(incl. %           The interest of an external developer and a commercial investor were
achievement)       obtained for two larger sites in Tanzania, and their due diligence process
                   was initiated. In Rwanda, the two sites that obtained government
                   funding with the support of the project are also in discussions with other
                   funders.

                   Source: GVEP completion and results report
Indicator 3 :      Number of off-grid lighting products distributed in Kenya.
Value
(quantitative or             0                10,000                           166,336
Qualitative)
Date achieved          06/04/2013          06/04/2013                     10/31/2014
                   Target surpassed. 8 distributors of off-grid lighting products were
Comments
                   awarded grants and sold 166,336 products through retailers.
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Source: GVEP completion and results report
                   Number of SMEs that acquired a new electricity connection to expand
Indicator 4 :
                   their business in Senegal.
Value
(quantitative or             0                    3                              12
Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/04/2013         06/04/2013                      10/31/2014
                   Target surpassed. 12 multi-sectorial SMEs (PREMS) received a new
Comments           electricity connection, equipment and/or service upgrade to support
(incl. %           expansion of productive capacity and increase revenues.
achievement)
                   Source: GVEP completion and results report

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                   Original Target Formally       Actual Value
                                    Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator     Baseline Value
                                      approval        Target     Completion or
                                     documents)       Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of SSA energy SMEs assisted by GVEP’s technical support.
Value
(quantitative           0                10                             38
or

                                             iv
Qualitative)
Date achieved       06/04/2013         06/04/2013                       10/31/2014
             Target surpassed: The project supported implementation of 6 mini and
             small hydro power projects in Tanzania and 3 in Rwanda, another 6 Off-
             Grid Lighting (OGL) SMEs in Rwanda and 3 Improved Stove Distributors
Comments
             in Uganda. In addition, 8 OGL SMEs in Kenya and the 12 PREMS in
(incl. %
             Senegal also received technical support through the project, bringing the
achievement)
             total number of SMEs benefiting from the project’s technical support to 38.

              Source: GVEP completion and results report.
Indicator 2 : Number of off-grid lighting companies awarded a grant in Kenya.
Value
(quantitative
                          0                    7                             8
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved        06/04/2013           06/04/2013                    10/31/2014
              Target surpassed. 8 OGL companies received grants of US$1.108 million
Comments
              in total.
(incl. %
achievement)
              Source: GVEP completion and results report
              Number of energy SMEs awarded a grant for expanding their productive
Indicator 3 :
              uses of electricity in Senegal.
Value
(quantitative
                          0                    7                            12
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved        06/04/2013           06/04/2013                    10/31/2014
              Target surpassed. 12 PREMs received grants of US$1.32 million in total to
Comments      expand their productive uses of electricity in Senegal through new or
(incl. %      upgraded electricity connection, equipment or service.
achievement)
              Source: GVEP completion and results report

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                      IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    05/14/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  1.03
                          Moderately              Moderately
  2    11/12/2013                                                                5.93
                          Satisfactory            Satisfactory
                          Moderately              Moderately
  3    07/07/2014                                                                8.97
                          Satisfactory            Satisfactory



                                           v
H. Restructuring (if any)

The project underwent one Level One restructuring, which was approved on June 4, 2013.
It extended the closing date to August 31, 2014 and provided for an additional grant of
US$5.2 million to the project, bringing total funding to US$10.2 million. The project
closing date was later extended to October 31, 2014 through an amendment to the grant
agreement on August 26, 2014, in order to allow for proper completion and oversight of
ongoing sub-grant transactions.

By the time of the restructuring, activities in Mali had been fully completed and it was
decided not to support further activities in that country. Indicators were added to reflect the
new project activities in Kenya and Senegal, where responsibility for administering the
sub-grants was placed directly with the implementing agency, GVEP International. For
detailed information please refer to Section 1.3.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

    1.1. Context at Appraisal

1.      As Chair of the G8 Summit held in St. Petersburg in 2006, the Government of
Russia led the initiative of putting energy access at the core of the summit agenda and
communique. G8 leaders pledged to improve sustainable access to energy for over 1.6
billion people without access in developing countries, including 75 percent of the
population in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Government of Russia pledged US$30 million to
support energy Small and Medium-size Enterprises (SMEs) in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)
through the Global Village Energy Partnership (GVEP), a partnership initiated by UNDP
and the World Bank with the support of bilateral donors following the 2002 World Summit
for Sustainable Development.

2.       By 2006, the GVEP initiative had evolved from its initial structure as a partnership
between the World Bank, UNDP and three bi-lateral donors to become GVEP International,
a UK registered charity. GVEP International, an independent non-profit, was established
to alleviate poverty in developing countries through increased access to sustainable energy.
To achieve this goal, it supported the development and growth of SMEs that deliver energy
products and services to the poor. It had been originally envisioned first that the GVEP
initiative, and later that GVEP International would administer the Government of Russia
support for energy SMEs that was to be channeled through the World Bank. However, as
a newly established organization, it was recognized that GVEP International had limited
institutional and fiduciary capacity.1

3.      In March 2009, the Government of Russia established a US$ 30 million Trust Fund
(“Parent Fund”) to support the Energy Small and Medium Enterprises (ESME) program at
the World Bank in order to support energy access in SSA countries. One of the “child
funds” established under ESME was for a US$5 million Energy SME project to be
implemented by GVEP International. A Grant Agreement between the World Bank and
GVEP International was signed on June 19, 2009 2 to implement the project, “GVEP
International Energy Support for SMEs in SSA” (TF 094542-3A/P115401). This project,
referred to in this report as “ESME-SSA”, was designed as a recipient-executed trust fund
to be implemented by GVEP International over a period of four years. Given its limited
capacity at that time to apply World Bank fiduciary guidelines, the original project was
limited to procuring specialist consultant services for technical assistance (TA) and
advisory services. The rationale was to provide support to build capacity for rural



1 In order to enhance GVEP International’s institutional capacity to provide technical assistance and other services for
SMEs, particularly in SSA, the Bank extended a US$425,000 ESMAP grant in June 2009 to “strengthen GVEP
International’s management team to improve results monitoring and evaluation”; and for the “setting up and maintenance”
of GVEP International websites.
2 As outlined in the ESME project paper, a majority of the ESME funding intended for SME sub-grants was channeled

by the World Bank through recipient-implemented grants to government agencies in selected SSA countries (ESME
Component 1), while US$5 million was channeled through GVEP International for TA and advisory services (ESME
Component 2).


                                                          1
electrification agencies and to provide technical assistance and advisory services to SMEs
and project developers in SSA.3 The pipeline of identified and supported SMEs and project
developers was intended to be eligible and apply to benefit from sub-grants to be
administered separately through other recipient-executed ESME trust funds to be
established within rural energy agencies in selected SSA countries.

4.      During implementation, the work program was amended to prioritize direct
implementation of sub-grants for SMEs in Kenya and Senegal and reflect other
changes. In addition, to providing TA, capacity building and advisory services for project
preparation in the selected SSA countries of Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya and
Senegal, by 2012, GVEP was found to have developed sufficient capacity to administer
sub-grants in accordance with relevant World Bank fiduciary guidelines. Thus, GVEP was
tasked with directly implementing sub-grant programs in Kenya and Senegal when rural
agencies in those countries so requested. Activities in Mali had been completed and given
the political situation at the time, it was decided not to continue them further. Provision of
business advisory services and technical assistance to distributors of efficient cook-stoves
in Uganda was identified as an area where the project could provide value-added services.
To reflect these developments, the project was restructured and an Additional Financing
amendment of US$5.2 million was approved, with a new Grant Agreement signed in June
2013, bringing the total grant amount to US$10.2 million.4

5.      This ICR is focused on the ESME-SSA project activities implemented by
GVEP International, which constitute: (a) US$5 million for TA and advisory services in
a range of SSA countries; and (b) Additional Financing of US$5.2 million for capacity
building, TA and advisory services in selected SSA countries, along with implementation
of new sub-grant activities in Kenya and Senegal. The new activities in the amended
project emphasized GVEP’s role “to foster local private sector entrepreneurship and
investment in the provision of energy services in remote, un-served and under-served
regions within a number of Sub Saharan African (SSA) countries.” As described in Section
1.3, all the original indicators were maintained, while new indicators were added in the
results framework to reflect the new and additional activities related to direct
administration of sub-grants in Kenya and Senegal.




3
  SMEs and project developers in an indicative list of countries identified for GVEP International support
included Kenya, Rwanda, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea,
Mozambique, Mali “and any other agreed beneficiaries (Member Countries)”. Capacity building, TA and
advisory services were initiated in Kenya, Senegal, Tanzania, Rwanda and Mali. Due to the political unrest
in Mali in 2012, GVEP International activities in that country had to be terminated. Activities were later
initiated in Uganda under the Additional Financing.
4
  The new activities in the amended project emphasized GVEP’s role “to foster local private sector entrepreneurship and
investment in the provision of energy services in remote, un-served and under-served regions within a number of Sub
Saharan African (SSA) countries.” It should be noted that at the time the project was agreed, trust funded operations did
not have the same requirements for results frameworks and reporting as investment projects—for instance, ISRs only
became required by the time of the restructuring.


                                                           2
     1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
          approved)

6.      The PDO of the overall ESME trust fund as approved was to provide “additional
financing and technical assistance activities to SMEs in selected SSA countries to
strengthen their capacity in providing energy services to poor communities in Sub-Saharan
Africa.”5

The key indicators in the overall ESME Project Paper for the overall $30 million ESME
trust fund were the following:
     Strengthened institutional capacity of selected SMEs in providing energy services;

        Improved legal and regulatory environment sustaining SME operations;

        Improved public/private financing environment of energy SMEs;

        Increased numbers of households, productive units and social institutional with
         access to energy services.

The ESME-SSA project to be implemented by GVEP International had the aim of
“building the capacity of the local private sector and community based organizations to
develop and manage energy service delivery and utilization.”

7.       The relevant PDO indicators for the ESME-SSA project were:

        Number of Government programs supporting SMEs designed with GVEP
         assistance;

        Number of SSA energy SMEs that reached government or commercial funding
         thanks to GVEP technical support.

     The Intermediate Outcome (IO) results indicator was:

        Number of Energy SMEs assisted by GVEP’s technical support.


     1.3. Revised PDO

8.      The June 2013 restructuring and amendment did not change the original PDO or
indicators; however new indicators were added to reflect the additional activities. The table
below shows the original (at approval) and revised (at restructuring) PDO and Intermediate
Outcome (IO) indicators of the project:




5
  The PDO is contained both in the ESME Project Paper of December 18, 2008, and is also referenced in
the Grant Agreement with GVEP International of June 11, 2009.


                                                   3
   Table 1: PDO and Intermediate Outcome (IO) Indicators at Approval and as
                                Restructured

    Original PDO Indicator         Target           Revised PDO Indicator            Final
                                                                                    Target
No. of Government programs                      Not revised
supporting SMEs designed with      3                                                3
GVEP assistance
No. of SSA energy SMEs that                     Not revised
reached government or
commercial funding thanks to       2                                                2
GVEP technical support

                                                No. of off-grid lighting products
                                                distributed in Kenya (new         10,000
                                                indicator)
                                                No. of SMEs that acquired a new
                                                electricity connection to expand
                                                                                  3
                                                their business in Senegal (new
                                                indicator)
     Original Intermediate                      Revised Intermediate Outcome
       Outcome Indicators                                    Indicators
No. of SSA energy SMEs                           Not revised
assisted by GVEP’s technical
                                   10                                               10
support

                                                No. of off-grid lighting
                                                companies awarded a grant in
                                                                                    7
                                                Kenya (new indicator)

                                                No. of energy SMEs awarded a
                                                grant for expanding their
                                                                                    7
                                                productive uses of electricity in
                                                Senegal. (new indicator)


   1.4. Main Beneficiaries

9.      Institutions and SMEs providing energy services were intended to be supported in
an initial list of five to seven countries to be selected from an indicative list of SSA
countries to benefit from the project. The countries initially indicated in the long list
included in the ESME Project Paper included the Republic of Benin, Burkina Faso,
Republic of Cameroun, Republic of Guinea, Republic of Mali, Republic of Mozambique,
Republic of Rwanda, Republic of Senegal, Republic of Tanzania and Republic of Uganda,
“and any other agreed beneficiaries” (“Member Countries”).



                                            4
10.       The project design included:

         Provision of advisory services to benefit SMEs and project developers in targeted
          SSA countries. These advisory services were intended to provide an assessment of
          the SME operating environment in the selected countries and help SMEs develop
          sustainable business plans and help project developers prepare bankable projects.

         Provision of TA and capacity building services to SMEs. Enterprises benefiting
          from TA in the original grant included distributors and retailers of Off-Grid
          Lighting (OGL) products (mainly solar lanterns and lamps) in Kenya and Rwanda;
          project developers of micro- and mini-hydro plants in Rwanda and Tanzania; and
          cook-stove distributors in Uganda (under the amended grant). Capacity building
          and TA services were intended to benefit rural energy institutions in Senegal,
          Rwanda and Tanzania for energy SME activities, including support for official rural
          access institutions to encourage development of a pipeline of eligible projects and
          to help mobilize skills and identify parallel co-financing from the private sector to
          support sub-projects. The purpose of the capacity building and provision of TA was
          to help relevant SSA institutions to develop and implement programs to attract
          private sector SMEs and project developers to promote energy access.

         Following the restructuring, sub-grants in Kenya were designed to benefit SMEs
          for market development, to help finance working capital requirements to support
          the purchase of OGL stock in the nascent markets. In Senegal, sub-grants were
          designed to provide financial resources to SMEs to support the purchase,
          installation and service of equipment to enable the provision of productive energy
          services.

         Finally, in addition to the SMEs as direct beneficiaries of project design, the
          ultimate beneficiaries were the households and enterprises benefiting from new
          and/or improved energy access services due to the activities of rural energy
          agencies and private companies in the selected beneficiary countries.


      1.5. Original Components

11.     The project had one component, namely to provide TA and advisory services
to SMEs, rural energy agencies (REAs) and other local private funds. The project was
approved to support energy SMEs in selected SSA countries in the following ways under
the original grant agreement: (i) to support rural energy agencies and/or other local private
funds in the preparation of a pipeline of eligible projects and to support an assessment of
the SME’s operating environment; (ii) to support capacity development activities of SMEs
and rural energy agencies and/or other local private funds; and (iii) to help mobilize skills
and identify parallel co-financing from the private sector to support sub-projects. Other
components of the parent ESME operation administered by the World Bank included
stand-alone grants to selected state-led rural and energy agencies as well as a component
for World Bank staff and administrative costs.



                                               5
    1.6. Revised Components

12.     The project was restructured and a revised grant agreement was signed on
June 11, 2013. The restructuring revised and expanded project resources to provide an
additional grant in the amount of US$5.2 million within an extended time-frame of August
31, 2014 (subsequently extended further until October 31, 2014, see below). The changes
involved: (i) amending the disbursement table to provide for a new category of eligible
expenditure, reallocate funds and provide for a supplemental contribution to the Grant; (ii)
amending the project description to provide for the financing of small sub-grants
administered by the implementing agency; (iii) modifying the safeguards category of the
project to take into account the potential environmental and social impact of the new
activities; (iv) while the original indicators were retained, new indicators were added for
expected results from allocation of resources to sub-grants to SMEs in Kenya and Senegal;
and (v) extending the closing date by eight months, to August 31, 2014, to enable the
project to implement the SME sub-grants programs in Kenya and Senegal.

    1.7. Other significant changes

13.    On August 26, 2014, the project closing date was further extended to October 31,
2014 to provide sufficient time for implementation and follow-up of project sub-grants.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

    2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     Project preparation, design and quality at entry were adequate and
satisfactory. The project design drew from the Bank’s extensive experience in the field
of energy access and rural electrification for which previous World Bank projects and
others were examined. Lessons learned from similar programs such as Lighting Africa and
Biomass Energy Initiative for Africa were considered and taken into account during project
preparation and design. The key insight was that the project could close a key capacity
constraint faced by SMEs by helping them create strong business plans to establish
sustainable ventures for energy access. Key lessons considered at entry included the
following:

   Providing energy access to those without any access requires collaboration with
    organizations that can identify practical grid-connected and off-grid energy business
    models that work in remote areas as a means to meet needs and stimulate economic
    growth. Energy SMEs are an important element of reaching these new markets
    sustainably, cost-effectively and quickly through the private sector

   Capacity building of SMEs in the sector is required to develop sustainable business
    plans for serving these populations with energy services and ongoing maintenance.
    Technical assistance to SMEs during implementation of the grant is important to ensure
    sustainability of the business after grant funding is completed

   It was recognized that an important role of the project was to identify project developers


                                              6
    to develop energy generation resources in dispersed communities based on local
    conditions. The project design was flexible and left open the option of either supplying
    electricity to the national grid or to serve local customers directly until local conditions
    were properly assessed.

   It was recognized that successful programs rely on strong and effective institutional
    arrangements, including collaboration and official support for rural agency SME
    programs. It was also recognized that complementary multi-sector measures are needed
    to meet poverty alleviation objectives of rural electrification programs. In this regard,
    government buy-in was recognized as an important design element for successful
    implementation.

15.      The project design and work plan prioritized identification and support of
energy SMEs that are often bypassed by rural energy agencies and large financial
institutions. Initial resources from the project were utilized to identify and develop
networks of SMEs and project developers and to support pipeline identification and
development activities across many countries in SSA. Focus countries were identified
based on criteria such as relative maturity of SMEs, support from government and ability
to develop and implement a sound business plan (evidence of related World Bank activity
in rural access was also seen as a desired positive linkage). GVEP’s small size, mission-
driven focus and initial lack of formal structures attracted motivated staff that helped it
operate well in the energy SME environment, even as these same characteristics limited its
ability to expeditiously apply World Bank fiduciary guidelines. The project design took
into account on-the-ground realities that clearly indicated that lack of local capacity was
one of the main risks for programs related to SME provision of infrastructure services. The
project design mitigated this identified risk by providing support for business advisory
services to SMEs through procurement of specialized and multi-dimensional technical
skills related to engineering and renewable energy, but also for business advisory services,
project finance and business planning. At the time of appraisal, the proposed activities
were relatively straightforward with minimal environment and social risks, and
procurement was primarily limited to procuring services through specialized consultants
for studies and assessment activities.

16.     At appraisal, the overall risk for the project was classified as Moderate. The
main implementation risk identified related to the business sustainability of energy SMEs.
Key mitigation measures included: (i) provision of TA for energy SMEs to prepare
sustainable business plans; (ii) establishment of the viability and sustainability of business
plans as a key evaluation criteria of sub-grant selection; and (iii) provision of additional
TA to energy SMEs during the implementation to strengthen sustainability. An area of
shortcoming in project design was the multiple and overlapping roles played by GVEP
International in the project, i.e., as an ESME-SSA implementing agency, as a provider of
TA to rural energy agencies, as a business advisor to SMEs and as an administrator of sub-
grants (in Kenya and Senegal). These multiple roles provided an opportunity for the project
to internalize lessons from the first phase of implementation and to restructure the project
based on experience and on-the-ground realities.




                                               7
    2.2. Implementation

17.      Initial project implementation was largely focused on identifying market
opportunities and pipeline to help select the beneficiary SSA countries. Energy SMEs
were nascent at the time of the design and early implementation of the ESME-SSA project,
and did not feature to any large degree in the energy access strategies of most SSA
governments. During the initial period of project implementation, it was agreed that
ESME-SSA would identify and target activities to be supported by “additional financing”
(funding) from the ESME trust fund to be aligned with existing Bank supported activities
in selected countries. In some countries, securing government interest in implementing
activities specifically aimed at nurturing energy supply by SMEs was not easy. The
extensive documentation required by the Bank for evidence of the existence of a pipeline
of ‘bankable’ businesses in each country also was difficult to provide given the early stage
of the SME energy sector. Eventually, after 18 months of ESME-SSA implementation, the
initial set of countries was identified for programming of ESME funds and the development
of official country-based ESME programs with the support of the project. The Bank signed
ESME agreements with energy agencies in Rwanda, Tanzania and Mali to design and
implement their ESME support programs. Some of the country agreements with the Bank
took considerable time to be signed by the country counterparts and to become effective.
Coordination between GVEP, which had played various roles in the process, and official
agencies became challenging.

18.     The original grant supported the establishment of official programs
supporting ESMEs and set the stage for subsequent implementation of sub-grants
and advancing the implementation of official programs. Targeted technical assistance
was provided to official rural energy access agencies to support programs for efficient and
sustainable provision of energy services. TA and advisory services supported official
energy and rural access agencies to identify country priorities and design and align SME
and generation support programs with criteria designed to encourage quality in
procurement and to develop competitive selection processes for economy and efficiency.
This helped mitigate the risk of distortions in sub-project selection that often lead to both
higher costs as well as quality and sustainability problems as well as implementation delays.
In Tanzania, Rwanda and Mali, for example, the project assisted official rural agencies to
design funds and other vehicles to support access through energy SMEs. In each of these
countries, ground realities for ESMEs were different and an assessment of ground
conditions and optimal interventions was conducted.

19.     SMEs required business advisory support to develop sound business plans to
deliver energy services as well as sustain and improve results. Activities under the
original grant focused on upstream business advisory activities such as SME outreach,
business scoping, technical and market studies, enterprise development and training
activities. Establishing a robust project pipeline -- irrespective of project size or scale --
requires a high degree of technical and commercial readiness. The project was able to
procure qualified staff to help SMEs do market surveys, assess customer demand and
willingness to pay, as well as develop sound business models, including efficient
distribution and service channels. These advisory services created the context and



                                              8
conditions where SMEs were more likely to succeed in building viable businesses. The
project identified SMEs and developed their transactions pipelines; and provided business
advisory services to strengthen SMEs in selected countries. The project supported
technical and pre-feasibility studies as well as surveys of sites and resources for
development of micro- and mini-hydro sites in Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania. GVEP
directly commissioned technical and other studies for small hydro projects, which created
some challenges to official agencies in Rwanda and Tanzania, who would have preferred
to have managed some of these studies themselves. Project developers were identified and
were also supported with preparation of good quality term sheets and with negotiation of
PPAs. GVEP itself had strong ties to private developers and potential financiers that it
brought into the process. These technical and transaction services contributed to raising the
probabilities of success for SMEs and project developers. Through this process, the project
was able to identify the best prospects for implementation, either with ESME support from
official agencies or directly through the implementing agency.

20.     Political conditions had an impact on continuity of operations in Mali and on
the potential scope of operations in Kenya and Senegal. An armed rebellion in Northern
Mali in January 2012 increased political instability and led to a military coup in March
2012. The events triggered Bank OP and BP 7.30 (“dealing with de facto government”). A
Management decision was made on May 16, 2012 instructing World Bank task teams to
close all operations due to end by June 30, 2012. This situation affected continuity of the
project’s activities in Mali. Despite this setback, Mali continued to expand SME activities
without support from the grant, on its own, including with the establishment of a Rural
Electrification Fund to support private operators and expansion of energy access with
subsequent support from SREP resources. Meanwhile, in Kenya and Senegal, respectively,
official rural agencies were experiencing constraints to implement sub-grants directly. It
was recognized that the project could be restructured to enable GVEP to directly administer
the SME sub-grants in these countries, if only it could overcome some of the necessary
fiduciary capacity constraints to meet these requirements.

21.     GVEP staff received training to increased fiduciary capacity to help
implement the project that was restructured in response to rapidly changing
conditions on the ground. As the project implementing agency, GVEP required training
in the application of World Bank fiduciary guidelines, (e.g., procurement, safeguards,
financial management) for procurement of goods, services and works, which were intended
and designed for larger-scale projects with major procurement for client governments. It
took sustained effort from both the implementing agency and the Bank to help GVEP
develop the necessary fiduciary capacity to manage programs consistent with the
guidelines of the World Bank. The June 2013 restructuring allocated additional resources
to engage more staff members in the implementing agency to increase its technical and
administrative capacity in Nairobi. These processes took time and effectively led to a
shorter and tighter implementation schedule for implementing the sub-grants than had been
envisaged.

22.  The Mid-Term review (MTR) was conducted by a Bank mission from
December 4-17, 2013 and focused on ways to speed up implementation progress in the



                                             9
final months of the project. Despite initial challenges, both GVEP International and the
Bank team remained committed to finding solutions and executing the project as efficiently
as possible within those constraints. Working together with the Bank team, the project
implementation unit was able to stretch its growing capacity to administer the sub-grants
and to implement the project. The project established governance mechanisms for the
administration of the sub-grants. For instance, in Senegal representatives of the Agence
Senegalaise D’Electrification Rurale (ASER), the official rural agency, participated in an
evaluation committee consisting of energy SME experts for the selection of the sub-grants.
This promoted ownership by the official agency without burdening it with day-to-day
management of the sub-grant program.

23.      In order to avoid delays in the implementation process, the Bank team
provided guidance and gave considerable input, especially concerning procurement
under each sub-grant. A leading example of the Bank team’s proactive attention to
implementation can be found in Kenya, where the Bank team proposed and supported the
use of direct procurement methods for private sector entities. This allowed for provision
for general business and operating expenses under sub-grant procurement plans; as well as
for the provision of advance payments for procurement of solar stock. Clear deadlines for
activities and approval of sub-grants were discussed and agreed upon to make sure that
there would be sufficient time for implementation after the Bank’s no-objection was
provided. With significant effort by all parties, and despite lingering fiduciary capacity
challenges, the first sub-grant agreements in Senegal and Kenya were signed starting in
November 2013.

24.     The project met or surpassed its targeted results in every area as discussed
further in Section 3 of this report and detailed in section 3.2 and Annex 2. Individuals
and businesses in poorer, rural communities are largely bypassed by energy utilities and
often end up paying a large share of their stretched incomes on unsustainable and expensive
informal energy sources such as kerosene lamps for lighting. Supported by this project,
energy SMEs are now playing an increasingly recognized role in Tanzania, Rwanda, Kenya,
Mali, Senegal and Uganda to help expand energy access and help meet official energy
access targets. In each country, SMEs have sustainable business plans with the appropriate
technical, financial, supply chain and distribution channels to help increase their likelihood
of success. In Kenya, Rwanda and Senegal, SMEs have expanded their sales and/or
productive capacity as a direct consequence of the project’s efforts, with the rural poor
being the primary beneficiaries and permanent and temporary jobs being created by energy
SME in extending their services. In both Kenya and Rwanda, the markets for solar lamps
have matured and are ready to expand further with ongoing business support and
promotional activities. In Tanzania and Rwanda, several small hydropower projects have
been well-prepared for financing and implementation, with two GVEP-supported projects
among the three that earned Rwanda’s Energy Water and Sanitation Authority’s (EWSA)
financial support. Finally, in Uganda, the stove distributors have developed their
distribution channels and are geared up for significant expansion, with significant expected
impact on living conditions for users through the increased use of improved cook stoves as
well as by sustaining local jobs linked to the manufacturing of this technology. Visible
benefits include a high reduction of smoke in kitchens as well as savings in fuel wood and



                                             10
charcoal purchasing. TA support in Tanzania and Rwanda focused on private sector
participation in the energy sector, which could have a huge poverty impact and socio-
economic development in areas where there is limited or no access to electricity.

    2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.      Indicators selected at the time of designing the ESME-SSA project covered the
most relevant outcomes and outputs and were aligned with achieving the PDO. The
ESME-SSA project quantified some of the more general indicators associated with the
Parent ESME project, which had been expressed in more general and qualitative terms.
Initial indicators at approval were still rather qualitative in nature, and as amended, the
additional indicators were much more quantifiable and measurable. As an example,
indicators such as number of OGL products distributed in Kenya and number of SMEs
benefitting in Senegal in the amended project reflect the desire to identify the number of
beneficiaries from project activities in each of those countries. These brought the
indicators closer in line with energy sector core indicators for access.

26.     During implementation, the project developed additional monitoring tools and
capacity for capturing results on the beneficiary level. The data sources that were
developed during the course of project implementation included: (i) tracking sheet of
projects; (ii) business plans and baseline data sheets based on actual field assessments; (iii)
financial and project reporting by SMEs and project developers; and (iv) monitoring field
visits to verify data. These reflected robust arrangements to collect and maintain data,
which were found to be adequate. Excel-based dashboards were created with milestones
defined for each activity based on the implementation status of individual SMEs.
Information on final beneficiaries was estimated by collecting sales data (e.g., units of
OGL) and then projecting the number of households multiplied by an estimated five
persons per household, thereby providing a reasonable approach to quantifying the number
of household beneficiaries. A similar approach was used in Senegal as well. To measure
progress as a percentage of achievement, a traffic light indicator system and timeline was
displayed. The monitoring dashboard was updated on a quarterly basis, including
occasional field visits to verify the collected data. Impact Monitoring was carried out on
the level of beneficiaries and a database was created for estimating carbon mitigation
benefits. The Bank reviewed these dashboards and provided timely input on their structure
and use.

27.     Insights gained from indicators as well as from the ongoing provision of
advisory services were utilized to restructure and adjust project design and
implementation. Early results and advisory services in Kenya and Senegal showed strong
demand for rural energy services and the presence of several SMEs. However, the capacity
of official rural agencies to support small SMEs was stretched thin because of the
multiplicity of demands on them and the long process of implementing rural energy
programs. In response to these findings and based partly on the indicators, the project was
restructured, demonstrating that the indicators were well utilized. The changes reflected
proactive determination by the rural agencies, the Bank and GVEP International to shift




                                              11
the implementation model to one where GVEP International directly implement sub-grants
in Kenya and Senegal.

      2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.      The project was in full compliance with all World Bank safeguards and
fiduciary guidelines, including environment and social safeguards, procurement and
financial management. Implementation in compliance with Bank requirements was
initially a challenge, especially for many small SMEs that have lean staffs and minimal
systems in place. However, the experience of complying with Bank guidelines and good
practices related to safeguards, procurement and financial management with extensive
support from the Bank staff and the project is expected to increase the sustainability and
scalability of SMEs going forward.

Environment and Social Safeguards

29.     The original ESME-SSA grant had envisaged only TA and advisory services
as eligible activities, and so was categorized as Category C, based on applicable World
Bank guidelines for environmental and social safeguards. Following the restructuring,
the project supported direct financing of sub-grants, causing the operation’s safeguards
category to be revised to Category B. Due to the nature of the activities under the newly
added sub-grants in Kenya and Senegal, OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP 4.09 Pest
Management and OP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources were triggered. Environmental and
Social Management Frameworks (ESMF) were prepared and disclosed for the project’s
small sub-grant activities in Kenya and Senegal. The Bank team supported training and
recommended that GVEP engage an environmental specialist to screen activities to ensure
that the requisite guidelines were adequately applied by GVEP International’s team.
Mitigation measures and recommendation for good practices were developed and
integrated into sub-grant monitoring plans, which were fully complied with throughout
project implementation.

30.     The Bank’s environmental and social safeguard guidelines were fully complied
with during implementation of the project, including for implementation of sub-
grants. The project satisfactorily complied with all applicable Bank’s safeguard guidelines
for the scope of activities under both the original grant and following the amendment.
Implementation of safeguards as designed was relatively smooth, although it required close
attention from the implementing agency as well as World Bank staff. Environmental
management checklists were devised for Senegal and for OGL activities in Kenya, which
were readily agreed and disclosed for similar activities in Rwanda. GVEP screened sub-
projects to make sure that they conformed to the guidelines provided and stayed within the
scope of the agreed scope of activities. SMEs in Kenya had to provide Environmental
Sustainability Plans as part of their documentation and application for sub-grant approval.
Mitigation measures and recommendation for good practices were developed and
integrated into the sub-grant monitoring plans. The Bank team provided immediate
guidance and advice to resolve any matters efficiently. In one case, the Bank supervision
team noticed that a sub-grantee’s procurement list included an item that was ineligible and



                                            12
it was removed after this was pointed out. Such interventions provided for smoother and
swifter implementation of the sub-grants.

    2.5. Procurement

31.     Procurement activities were carried out in compliance with Bank’s policy and
procedural requirements.  Procurement activities for the ESME-SSA project were
implemented primarily out of GVEP’s Africa Regional Office in Nairobi and Headquarters
in London, and supplemented by their office in Dakar as needed. Procurement capacity
was initially weak during the initial phase of implementation with challenges related to
regular updating of the procurement plan and systematic documentation. However, this
capacity was improved through training on the Bank’s procurement guidelines and
procedures, and the number of procurement-accredited staff was increased to include two
senior project managers in London office as well as one project manager and two staff in
its office in Nairobi, Kenya. The staff in GVEP’s Kenya office was experienced in
monitoring the implementation of contracts. A proper hard and soft copy filing system
(Document Sharing solution – Microsoft 365) was implemented to comply with
requirements for tender processes. 

    2.6. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

32.      A dynamic private-sector market for energy access is taking hold across SSA,
especially in East Africa. In countries like Kenya, Tanzania and increasingly Rwanda,
the markets for off-grid solar systems are growing exponentially (over 140 percent
annually on average over the past five years), buoyed by reductions in costs of solar
systems and major improvements in the business models of delivering energy services by
leveraging technology for mobile payments and for remote monitoring and service of solar
home systems. SMEs and project aggregators are limited by their ability to raise capital to
scale up operations to meet the vast unmet energy needs in those countries and are
exploring innovative methods such as securitization of customer payments as a means of
raising new capital for expansion. Mali has developed and is implementing an investment
plan under the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program to scale up renewable energy in
rural areas based, in part, on the learnings from the project. Uganda is using the results of
the initiative to scale up efforts to work with SMEs on distributing and servicing efficient
cook-stoves to benefit schools and hospitals, among others. In Senegal, ASER is working
with GVEP and other partners to continue to expand and access for productive uses. A
separate, follow-on grant from the World Bank for continuation of business and project
advisory services is currently under discussion with GVEP management, with undisbursed
balance from this grant proposed to be rolled into the new grant agreement.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

        3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High



                                             13
33.     The objective of the project at the time of design was highly relevant, and it
remains highly relevant to expanding access to energy in SSA. The project is fully
consistent with the key principles and pillars of the World Bank Africa Strategy, which
identifies access to cheaper energy as an essential condition to securing access to markets
and improving competitiveness, and which includes scaling-up electricity access to reduce
energy poverty. The project is fully aligned with the World Bank’s key role as a global
partner in n the Sustainable Energy for All Initiative, 6 (SEA4ALL), which has the
objectives of achieving universal access to energy, doubling the global rate of improvement
in energy efficiency and doubling the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix.
The ESME-SSA project promotes private sector SMEs that targets energy access and
promotes clean energy in countries that are part of the SEA4ALL Initiative.

34.     Project activities and results in each of the countries were designed to be
closely aligned with their country development strategies as well as the World Bank’s
country assistance and partnership frameworks.

      Rwanda, which successfully expanded energy access from 6 percent to 16 percent of
       the population from 2009-2012, has a highly ambitious goal of providing access to 70
       percent of households by 2017, as articulated in the government’s Economic
       Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy for 2013-18. The World Bank’s Country
       Assistance Strategy for Rwanda for the period 2014-2018 emphasizes the themes of
       accelerating economic growth that is private-sector driven and job-creating”, as well as
       “‘improving the productivity and incomes of the poor through rural development and
       social protection”. In Rwanda, the project provided business advisory services to
       SMEs to develop successful plans to distribute OGL products, such as solar lamps, and
       supported project developers to develop viable and bankable mini-hydro generation
       projects.

      Kenya’s “Vision 2030” provides a framework for the World Bank Country Partnership
       Strategy (CPS 2014-18) objective to unleash the country’s growth potential, enhance
       competitiveness and promote sustainability -- and adequate and reliable supply of
       affordable electricity is identified as a key element. The advisory services and small
       grants provided to the distributors of modern OGL products in Kenya supported the
       improved access to modern energy services in rural and peri-urban areas contributing
       directly to the achievement of the ambitious goals of encouraging growth where the
       majority of the poor live.

      In Senegal, US$1.3 million in sub-grants for energy and productive equipment were
       disbursed to 12 businesses. These grants contribute to investments being made by the
       businesses in expanding operations. Provision of business advisory services to micro-
       entrepreneurs and sub-grants to SMEs improved their access to energy for productive
       uses and expanded rural access to electricity, which is identified as a key outcome of
       the World Bank CPS (2013-17) and also supports the country’s Accelerated Growth



6   http://www.se4all.org/


                                               14
    Strategy to create employment by further involving the private sector.

   In Tanzania, the ESME-SSA project’s work with the country’s Rural Energy Agency
    (REA) to attract and support project developers to conduct proper feasibility studies
    and develop bankable proposals for small hydro projects in rural areas promotes the
    country’s strategy to promote inclusive and sustainable private sector growth by
    building infrastructure and delivering services with the key outcome of expanding
    access, quality and sustainability of electricity. These activities are well aligned with
    the Bank’s Tanzania CAS (2011-15), which has the objectives of promoting inclusive
    and sustainable, private sector-led growth as well as building infrastructure and
    delivering services.

   In Uganda, the project supports business and supply chain advisory services to expand
    distribution of clean cook-stoves to households and schools, which is in line with the
    CAS (2011-15) objective of promoting inclusive and sustainable growth, with desired
    outcomes of increased energy access as well as increased efficiency and sustainability
    of natural resource management.

35.      The strong performance and achievement of outcomes under the project
demonstrates the importance of the role of the project in sustaining the achieved
successes. The Kenyan and Rwandan OGL markets, in particular, are seeing a multiplicity
of SME-led interventions to promote energy access to help implement the ambitious goals
the countries have established to promote energy access. In Kenya, for example, in the
past, distributors often resorted to paying high rates to airfreight OGL equipment, rather
than lose money due to longer lead times of shipping goods by sea, clearing customs at
Mombasa and then transporting stock by road. The additional capacity to meet capital
requirements has allowed the distributors to substantially increase their purchase of stock
shipped at lower cost to sustainably meet customer demand. Additional cash flow and
margins from the increased sales volume, in turn, has helped distributors increase their
headroom and raise additional working capital to sustain the higher levels of stock purchase
going forward. OGLs distributed with the help of SMEs, including those supported by
GVEP business advisory services, are a strong contributor to helping the government
increase the rates of access quickly and cost-effectively. In Senegal, GVEP International
is collaborating with ASER, the rural energy agency, on a range of new rural access
initiatives, including supporting women-owned micro-enterprises to access finance to
implement energy-related business models; providing support to ASER to propose and
implement a US$42 million project to extend energy access to 90 villages and expand
productive use of the power building on lessons learned from the experience working with
PREMs; and working with PREMs supported previously through sub-grants to further
expand productivity and access new sources of financing to reach new markets.

        3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: High




                                             15
36.     The PDO, as approved, was to provide “additional financing and technical
assistance activities to SMEs in selected SSA countries to strengthen their capacity in
providing energy services to poor communities in Sub-Saharan Africa.”

37.     The promotion of SMEs in this project contributed to the reduction of poverty
and extends basic energy services to un-served and underserved areas of SSA. The
rural poor are the main target group for OGL products in Kenya and in Rwanda. In addition,
permanent and temporary jobs were created in energy SME extending their services. In
Uganda, the support for cook stove SMEs resulted in significant social and poverty-related
impacts by improving living conditions for users through the increased use of improved
cook stoves as well as by sustaining local jobs linked to the manufacturing of this
technology. Visible benefits include a high reduction of smoke in kitchens as well as
savings in fuel wood and charcoal purchasing. TA support in Tanzania and Rwanda
focused on private sector participation in the energy sector, which could have a huge
poverty impact and socio-economic development in areas where there is limited or no
access to electricity.

38.     In line with PDO indicator 1, the project focused on supporting official
agencies to establish programs to support SMEs to provide energy services targeted
to benefit individuals and communities in SSA with limited or no energy access. These
communities are largely bypassed by energy utilities, and often have no immediate
prospects for grid access. Poorer people without access to modern energy services often
end up paying a large share of their stretched incomes on unsustainable and expensive
informal energy sources such as kerosene lamps for lighting. The ESME-SSA project
supported rural energy agencies in Mali, Rwanda, Tanzania and, later, Senegal, to design
and develop programs to solicit SMEs and private sector developers to serve hard-to-reach
sections of their population. As one could expect from four different countries, the
programs in each had many elements in common, but equally had different emphases and
priorities. The process to establish these priorities and then to address program
implementation concerns was long and complex. Some of the countries established their
own ESME programs. The ESME-SSA project played the following ongoing roles:

      In Tanzania and Rwanda, the role of the ESME-SSA project was to provide
       technical assistance in the form of feasibility studies and engineering advice for
       small private hydropower projects, as well as to work with these firms on their
       business and financial plans, and eventually link them to sources of funds, including
       the ESME grants administered by the official agencies as well as the existing IDA-
       funded Tanzania Energy Development and Access Project (TEDAP) in Tanzania.
       In Rwanda, the ESME-SSA project supported off-grid solar distributor SMEs to
       develop business plans and support their applications to the solar grant schemes
       developed by the Energy Water and Sanitation Authority (EWSA) to support the
       marketing cost of distributors of off-grid lighting products.

      In Kenya and Senegal, the original project design tried to follow the desired model
       of having government agencies manage the bulk of ESME funds, with the ESME-
       SSA project playing a ‘capacity building’ role. In Senegal the focus was on


                                            16
        ‘productive use’ – supporting a small number of SMEs constrained by inadequate
        energy supply. Work on identifying a pipeline of suitable businesses was completed
        by the end of 2010. In Kenya, the last focus country to be agreed, consultants began
        work in December 2010 preparing a program of support for a range of small energy
        projects, with funding intended to be managed by the REA. This later evolved to a
        sub-grant program administered directly by GVEP.

       In Mali, ESME funds were allocated to help finance an existing Bank supported
        rural electrification program. This involved financing and technical support for
        small scale energy service providers around the country. The ESMA-SSA project
        was assigned a role in developing technical training and in exploring potential
        sources of private sector investment. Civil conflict in the country led to the closure
        of the program.

       Later, in 2013, a new project around the distribution of improved cook-stoves
        within the Bank’s Africa Clean Cooking Energy Solutions (ACCES) initiative was
        created for Uganda. This was a small, short-term intervention made possible by the
        Bank’s emerging interest in clean cooking. The new program focused on building
        distribution networks for 2-3 local manufacturers of improved stoves with the
        intention of reaching customers outside the Kampala metropolitan area. The stove
        makers were selected on the basis of capacity and proven quality of the product.

39.    In line with PDO indicator 2, the project supported SMEs to develop technical
and business plans that helped to attract public sector and private sector financing.
The business advisory services provided supported the capacity and opportunity for SMEs
and project developers to access commercial and/or governmental financing for access
expansion. The SME programs together enabled 38 SMEs in all to develop their capacity
and to acquire and demonstrate business skills and develop sound business plans. This
enabled eight SMEs to provide energy access through distribution of solar OGL systems
in Kenya; and enabled 12 SMEs in Senegal to invest in energy for productive uses and to
expand rural incomes; while over 100 micro-entrepreneurs in Senegal were provided
advice to expand revenues by adding products and services such as solar phone chargers
etc.

   In Rwanda, for example, the ESME-SSA project supported six out of the seven
    distributors of OGL products that were awarded OGL distribution contracts from the
    first-ever such solicitation by Rwanda’s EWSA under its ESME-funded grant window.
    EWSA intends to continue the process of soliciting SMEs supported by other resources
    going forward.

   Also in Rwanda, two ESME-SSA supported projects (Nyundo and Gaseke) were
    among the three that were able to successfully negotiate Power Purchase Agreements
    (PPAs) with the state-owned utility, and were successful in securing grant funding from
    EWSA. Both of these developers are still in the process of securing other funding, but
    both sites have a high probability of being constructed.



                                             17
   In Tanzania, the project supported feasibility/pre-feasibility studies and safeguards
    documentation for six small hydro projects. Three out of the six projects were
    prioritized for further support. One project, the 250 kW Darakuta hydro successfully
    obtained a commercial loan from CRDB Bank p.l.c. and achieved financial close. An
    additional two have demonstrated completion of all technical requirements for a PPA,
    and have attracted the interest of an external developer (Virunga Power), which is
    supported by an investor (Responsibility). The developer is seeking to agree contracts
    with the local communities to develop the sites. Assuming agreement is reached, the
    developer has the capability to raise finance and there are a number of potential sources
    of project financing that have been identified. The remaining three projects have
    completed the requisite technical, economic and safeguards studies with support from
    the project, and are strong candidates for further development.

   In line with PDO indicator 3 (and one of two new intermediate results indicators added),
    in Kenya the project supported an exponential increase in the number of OGL solar
    products distributed and made available to the public across Kenya at a time that the
    nascent sector needed a jumpstart to gain critical mass and become more competitive
    and attractive. Business advisory support provided to the SMEs was crucial to these
    SMEs at a time that the nascent sector needed a jump-start prior to the market becoming
    attractive and more competitive. This business support has boosted the prospects for
    the SMEs to grow in a dynamic and competitive marketplace and many of them will
    continue to serve additional customers going forward, either as they are currently
    established or through anticipated market consolidation going forward. The original
    project target of 10,000 systems (PDO indicator 3) was substantially exceeded, with
    166,336 lantern systems sold by October 2014, resulting in over 500,000 beneficiaries
    with improved access to energy. Half of these beneficiaries are estimated to be women.

   In line with PDO indicator 4 (and one of two new intermediate results indicators added),
    in Senegal, the project provided technical assistance and training to 12 multi-sectorial
    SMEs, including three dairy processing farms, two tourist camps and seven agricultural
    businesses, helping them to develop plans to enhance their productive capacity and
    increase their revenues. When the direct sub-grants component was added, the project
    supported the SMEs to access electricity service and to raise their productivity to
    expand business and help meet demand for their products and services. Three of the
    small businesses obtained a grid connection, and the remaining nine benefitted from
    stand-alone solutions consisting of hybrid systems (e.g., comprising solar PV backed
    up by a generator), along with equipment to support efficient agricultural processing to
    help the agricultural firms move up the value chain and supply local markets. ASER,
    the official rural energy agency, will continue these efforts going forward.

   In line with the original intermediate results indicator, in addition to the other SMEs
    provided with business advisory support, the project focused support for three stove
    producers in Uganda resulted in a strengthening of their distribution channels, which
    was identified as a weak link in their business model.

40.   Governments have come to recognize the positive contribution that SMEs can
make to help cost-effectively and swiftly provide energy access, especially in rural


                                             18
areas. Governments recognize the important role that energy access plays in enhancing
socioeconomic development through better access to education, healthcare, improved
economic opportunities and security. However, energy access programs, especially in rural
areas, have traditionally found it challenging to receive the same attention from
government institutions for off-grid uses compared to large grid-based infrastructure
investments. Under the ESME-SSA project, there has been a demonstration of the role
SMEs can play in quickly and effectively distributing products and services for rural energy
access showing visible, on-the-ground results. The viability of this model has led to the
recognition, promotion and establishment of a competitive OGL solar sector in Kenya and
Rwanda, among other countries, where ESME-SSA project support, along with other
efforts, has helped strengthen the nascent OGL sector in a critical time of its development.
GVEP International found that it was able to play an effective role in expanding access at
a cost-effective per-connection cost, which it estimates at Euro 2.60 per beneficiary
supported by GVEP in the period April 2009-November 2014. These results have given
momentum to the creation of necessary institutional arrangements and impetus for
additional support and activities among energy-related SMEs.7

              Table 2: Achievement of Indicators and Proposed Ratings

         Combined PDO Indicators                                Results       Percent
                                                  Target
                                                               Achieved       Achieved
 No. of Government programs supporting
                                                     3             4            133%
 SMEs designed with GVEP assistance
 No. of SSA energy SMEs that reached
 government or commercial funding thanks             2             10           500%
 to GVEP technical support
 No. of off-grid lighting products distributed
                                                   10,000       166,336        1663%
 in Kenya (new indicator)
 No. of SMEs that acquired a new electricity
 connection to expand their business in              3             12           400%
 Senegal (new indicator)
     Combined Intermediate Outcome                              Results       Percent
                                                  Target
                   Indicators                                  Achieved       Achieved
 No. of SSA energy SMEs assisted by
 GVEP’s technical support                            10            38           380%

 No. of off-grid lighting companies awarded
 a grant in Kenya (new indicator)                    7             8            114%

 No. of energy SMEs awarded a grant for
 expanding their productive uses of                  7             12           171%
 electricity in Senegal. (new indicator)




                                            19
41.    A split evaluation of project performance against original and revised PDO
indicators confirms the overall Satisfactory outcome rating. Although the PDO remain
unchanged, the team conducted a split evaluation of the project against both the original
and post-restructuring indicators. The evaluation, conducted in a manner consistent with
the ICR Guidelines8 for rating the outcome of projects with formally revised objectives,
took into account and weighted performance by the share of actual grant disbursements before and
after the restructuring. The evaluation conducted confirmed and reinforced the ratings provided
above and took into account that the Project Paper for the Additional Financing of June
2015 9 noted the “satisfactory” implementation of the original project activities, with
disbursements at 86 percent of the original US$5 million grant of US$4.3 million. Overall
disbursement at the end of the project stood at US$8.97 million, with a rating of
Satisfactory. These values were used to derive a weight for disbursements before and after
restructuring of 0.48 and 0.52, respectively, which was applied to the rating of the project
outcome against the original project indicators and against the revised project indicators,
respectively. The final rating was calculated as the sum of the two weighted values of 2.40
+ 2.60 to arrive at a final rating of 5, which denotes a rating of Satisfactory.

    Table 3: Split Evaluation of Project against Original and Revised PDO Indicators

                                         Against Original       Against Revised
                                         PDO Indicators         PDO Indicators Comments
     1   Rating                          Satisfactory           Satisfactory
     2   Rating Values (1-5)                                5                   5 Satisfactory
     3   Actual Disbursements ($m)                        4.3                4.67
     4   Weight                                          0.48                0.52
     5   Weighted Value                                  2.40                2.60
     6   Final Rating                                    5.00                5.00 Satisfactory
         Total Disbursements ($m)                                            8.97

          3.3. Efficiency

Rating: Substantial

42.     An economic and financial analysis was not conducted at design. The project
was designed to require that ongoing economic and financial analysis be conducted for all
the sub-grants administered by GVEP for the project. All sub-grant project proposals were
screened during implementation for commercial viability, including economic and
financial viability. This was important to ensure that the investments resulted in
productivity improvements leading to increased revenues, with benefits exceeding costs
and a net positive Net Present Value. In addition, the selected sub-grants in Kenya were
carefully selected based on the following demonstrated criteria: (i) commercial viability;


8
  Implementation and Completion Results Report Guidelines, OPCS, August 6, 2006 updated July 22,
2014.
9
  Report No. 78062-AFR para 10 and para 7, respectively.


                                                 20
(ii) completeness of proposal; (iii) sales and business scale up; (iv) organizational capacity;
(v) additionality and development impact; and (vi) innovation. Similarly, in Senegal, sub-
grants were evaluated against criteria that included: (i) commercial viability; (ii) energy
access need and availability of solution; (iii) completeness of proposal; (iv) sales and
business scale up; (v) organizational capacity; and (vi) additionality and development
impact.

43.     Net Present Value (NPV) and payback analysis of the sub-grants shows that
off-grid solutions can be a highly attractive and efficient investment. Estimates from
the Lighting Africa10 program indicate that a typical household in Kenya spends US$78
annually on its lighting and cell phone charging needs. The median cost of a solar PV
lantern and charger that can provide a basic level of lighting and charge a cell phone is
US$40. Assuming a price of US$40 for a basic service level and a conservative estimate
of OGL life time of two years, a household will experience immediate monetary savings
of US$76 over two years, creating immediate savings that can be used for various other
activities. The small investment has a payback period of one year and a strong positive
NPV. Additional quantifiable benefits include consumer surplus from improved lighting
service, and the global environmental benefits from the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions. Other benefits include health and educational benefits, although these are more
difficult to quantify.

44.     The analysis in the table below considers the direct costs of 100,000 OGL units
and does not take into account the entire value stream, including upstream costs of market
development, business development and market research, which are key elements of
identifying and accessing the vast potential markets. An investment of US$4 million in
OGL equipment can provide an NPV of nearly US$10 million at a discount rate of 10
percent without a subsidy, which climbs to US$11.4 million with a low 1 percent discount
rate, which simulates the impact of the subsidy provided by the sub-grants. This return
helped SMEs reduce their working capital and other costs of market development in a
country context where credit for SMEs is difficult to obtain and extremely expensive when
available.

                              Table 4: Project NPV Economic Analysis

                                                                  Year 1         Year 2 
                                         Current Costs          $7,800,000     $7,800,000 
                                         Cost of OGL            $4,000,000          0 
                                         Net benefit            $3,800,000     $7,800,000  
                  NPV (@1%)              $11,408,685.42                       
                  NPV (@10%)                $9,900,826.45 




10
   Lighting Africa is a joint World Bank and IFC program that works towards improving access to better lighting in
areas not yet connected to the electricity grid.


                                                         21
45.      The project was successful in providing low-cost access to energy Analysis
conducted of Kenya OGL lantern sales figures indicate that access to energy was provided
for approximately 500,000 persons, mainly in rural areas. With a total amount of
US$1,108,000 disbursed through sub-grants administered by GVEP International for the
ESME-SSA project, access to energy was provided at a direct cost of US$2.22 per person
served.11 This is well in line with the estimated Euro 2.60 per beneficiary supported by
GVEP in the period April 2009-November 2014 across various grant programs. These
numbers are remarkably cost-efficient considering comparable costs for grid-based
electrification for which the Kenya utility, for example, charges a connection fee of 35,000
Ksh. (US$371), with fees based on electricity use as well. Kenya Power had submitted a
recent request to the regulator to raise the connection fee to 50,000 KSh.or US$530 per
household, which more closely approaches the true cost of service. Since the OGL systems
have a short lifetime of two years, a comparison with grid-electricity is not appropriate;
however, given the large-scale differences in these costs, it can be seen that off-grid
solutions provide an exceptional, cost-effective, bridge solution at least until the grid can
be extended to cover more customers. Studies conducted through the project also indicate
that a wide range of off-grid and mini-grid solutions for rural areas can be viable investment
alternatives. In recent years, the value proposition of off-grid solutions has significantly
increased as both technologies themselves and the business models providing service also
improve. Today’s solar system powered lamps and lanterns use LED technology, with the
most advanced 40 watt systems able to provide up to four LED lamps for five hours a day
as well as color television for up to four hours, phone chargers for three hours and radios
for four hours.

          3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

46.     The project is rated overall as Satisfactory, due to its continued high relevance,
satisfactory achievement of the PDO and key outcome targets, as well as its high efficiency.
It has successfully contributed to creating a landscape in several SSA countries where
energy SMEs raise their chances of success by emphasizing sustainable business plans and
strategies, while rural agencies have seen, first-hand, the ability of SMEs to cost-effectively
serve the most difficult and expensive to reach segments of the population. It was not rated
Highly Satisfactory because of certain delays experienced during project preparation and
implementation. These were caused either due to a long project preparation and appraisal
period or due to concerns and mitigation of implementation capacity constraints related to
applying World Bank fiduciary guidelines. These effectively led to a shorter and tighter
implementation schedule than had been envisaged; however as the strong results
demonstrate, these shortcomings were overcome.




11 Here again, this analysis considers the direct costs of the OGL equipment and does not take into account the upstream

costs of market development, business development and market research, which are key elements of identifying and
accessing the vast potential markets.


                                                          22
       3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Not applicable

       3.6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder
           Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

47.      The overall risk to the development outcomes is Moderate. The project design
took into account the lessons learned from similar programs, such as Lighting Africa or
Biomass Energy Initiative for Africa, to minimize risks. It combined upstream market
development and knowledge with implementation of projects and programs by rural
agencies as well as sub-grants to SMEs. The TA and advisory services provided the
knowledge and know-how for implementation. For example, during implementation there
was substantial provision of TA to energy SMEs by GVEP to prepare sustainable business
plans, making the viability and sustainability of business plans one of the key evaluation
criteria. Only those sub-projects which had a good track record and sound economic
viability were selected for direct sub-grants by GVEP, or were competitive in being
selected for support from the rural agency-managed programs. As a result, at the time of
project closing, the direct sub-grant programs were fully implemented and the programs
run by the rural agencies were either implemented or well-advanced. These strong
outcomes minimize any overall risk to the development outcome.

48.     Following a period of mentoring of SMEs in the initial phase of project
implementation, beneficiary SMEs applied for and were awarded sub-grants to
implement their business plans. The recipients in all countries were selected carefully by
independent evaluation committees in each country, and the vast majority of selected SMEs
were well-positioned to succeed in implementation of their overall business plans. GVEP
reinforced its staff to ensure that there was enough technical and administrative capacity to
implement project activities and ensure sustainability. Grants to OGL distributors in
Rwanda and Kenya mainly funded solar stock and some marketing activities. There
remains however, as in any dynamic, commercial setting, a small residual risk that some
of the businesses fail to take full advantage of the investment, despite the strong risk
mitigation provided. It is likely that there is consolidation in the segment, as some firms
are acquired or merged with others.

49.     The Governments of Rwanda and Tanzania have shown strong commitments
to increase their access rates in rural areas, reducing the risk of sustainability of TA
and business advisory activities supported under the ESME-SSA project. In Rwanda,
three small-hydro grid-connected projects totaling 4.7 MW have been funded by EWSA
and the government has a high level of commitment to continue its support going forward
in line with the country’s ambitious energy access targets. In Tanzania, one developer has
already secured funding and is completing construction of a hydro site and two other larger
ESME-SSA supported projects have good prospects of being financed and implemented



                                             23
through potential participation of a commercial developer. All of these projects have good
economics and competent developers and with strong PPAs in place. In Uganda,
distribution networks identified and supported under the ESME-SSA project are important
for the ongoing success and sustainability of current and upcoming efforts to promote clean
cook-stoves and energy access under IDA-supported activities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

            5.1. Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

50.      The World Bank’s performance during identification, preparation, and
appraisal of the project is rated Satisfactory, reflecting the project’s success in
overcoming some minor, early challenges. The development objectives were realistic and
the project had a high relevance for the government strategy in the five target countries.
The limitations and constraints of rural energy agencies to implement SME projects was
understood at project design, although likely to have been somewhat underestimated
initially in Kenya and Senegal. Following restructuring, the sub-grants were directly
implemented by GVEP at the request of these agencies, which accelerated implementation
satisfactorily. The Bank’s performance is not rated Highly Satisfactory because of the long
period of time taken to put into place formal agreements on both the original agreement
and the amended agreement.

51.     The Bank’s support to energy SMEs in the ESME-SSA project demonstrated,
in part, a relatively new business model of directly financing energy access
independent from government agencies as implementing agencies. The Bank usually
works with governments and state-owned entities and agencies, which is reflected in the
nature of Bank implementation guidelines and procedures for fiduciary management. State
entities, who initially were not accustomed to working with private entities, were able to
recognize the value of working with SMEs to help implement sub-grants to reach those in
remote areas cost-effectively and efficiently.

52.     The Bank’s fiduciary guidelines were applied properly despite these being
time- and resource-intensive. The project design facilitated success of the program, but
at a high cost to the implementing agency and to Bank staff for the amount of time and
resources spent on project supervision. Bank fiduciary guidelines and procedures are often
applied to larger infrastructure projects and larger-scale procurement. It became evident
that these procedures were not always suitable for managing small-scale projects, and, in
particular, the sub-grant programs, and added to the complexity in the supervision process.
The strong achievement of results under the ESME-SSA project exacted high transactions
costs from Bank staff, who had to spend enormous time and resources to supervise project
implementation and documentation for small sub-grants.

53.    Project design included several roles for GVEP International. The initial design
of the ESME-SSA project designated GVEP International as the agency responsible for


                                            24
project implementation. GVEP provided TA to rural agencies, while also providing
business advisory services to SMEs to apply for consideration from grant windows
managed by those rural agencies. Thus GVEP acted as an implementing agency for the
ESME-SSA project, a consultant/adviser to the government and a facilitator of business
services for SMEs, which led to some initial confusion that was clarified during
implementation. For instance, in Kenya and Senegal, after the restructuring, GVEP
provided business services to SMEs and helped them prepare applications for the sub-
grants it administered. To avoid any perceived conflicts of interest, GVEP was not part of
the Evaluation Committee, but rather facilitated meetings of the Evaluation Committee
comprised of noted national experts in the field of rural energy access. These multiple
roles provided an opportunity for the project to internalize lessons from the first phase of
implementation and to restructure the project based on on-the-ground realities.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

54.     The quality of supervision was generally of a high standard and issues that
could affect project implementation were identified in a timely manner, documented
and addressed. The process to put into place formal agreements for both the original grant
and the amended grant took a long time, leading to initial delays. After an initial slow start
to implementation due to capacity constraints, the Bank provided training on fiduciary
issues to GVEP staff. These delays led to initial frustration on the part of both the Bank
and GVEP, until project implementation was accelerated, in particular after the
restructuring. The task team scheduled regular telephone meetings with GVEP to review
progress, consider obstacles and find solutions. The task team pulled out all stops to try to
implement as flexibly as possible within the Bank’s rules. This was most evident in
procurement for the sub-grants, where direct procurement methods were applied using
commercial principles. This also improved the quality of communication between the Bank
and the implementing agency, which communicated that it sometimes found the level of
detail in Bank supervision of fiduciary guidelines to be onerous compared to that of other
donors.

55.     There was proactive identification and adjustment of project design to suit
evolving needs. The rural energy agencies of Kenya and Senegal, respectively, faced
capacity and mandate constraints in the initial implementation period, and they requested
that the Bank finance sub-grants directly through GVEP International. The Bank responded
and restructured the project, allocating additional funds to be managed by GVEP
International to implement a small grant program to support energy SMEs in Kenya and
Senegal. Another example of proactivity demonstrated was the frequent engagement with
the implementing agency to prioritize tasks and optimize results, e.g., to prioritize
implementation of the sub-set of small hydro projects deemed to be most likely to attract
financing in Rwanda and Tanzania. The ability to refine the project design through the
restructuring and improve implementation on an ongoing basis contributed greatly to the
successful outcomes of the project.




                                             25
56.     The Bank made available sufficient resources to implement this project. Given
the project amount, the input in terms of coordination, supervision and guidance to the
project beneficiary was extraordinary. The project was small in size, but required intensive
supervision (e.g., frequent responses to requests for no-objection had to be provided in due
time to keep the project operational). After it became clear that additional human resources
were required, the Bank acted swiftly and made additional staff available. The Bank team
also had to compensate for the fact that initially GVEP had no experience in
implementation consistent with standard World Bank fiduciary guidelines and procedures.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

57.     The ICR rates the Bank’s overall performance as Satisfactory. The Bank’s
proactivity and practical approach to addressing the fiduciary challenges while remaining
within the bounds of the guidelines and its constant engagement with GVEP to assess and
readjust based on on-the-ground results and feedback enabled the project to exceed original
targets within the constraints of the implementation period.

            5.2. Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Not applicable

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies
Rating: Satisfactory

58.     The implementing agency, GVEP International, met all fiduciary challenges
and implemented the project to the full achievement of its development objectives.
GVEP’s role included ensuring the provision of TA to rural agencies and utilities; advisory
services to SMEs; and, following restructuring, responsibility and accountability for direct
sub-grant administration in Kenya and Senegal. With the support of the Bank team, GVEP
managed the completion of sub-grant applications, set up and supported evaluation
committees and contracted agreements and disbursed sub-grants to the enterprises. GVEP
was also able to display its ability to work with small enterprises and rural communities on
a local level thereby reaching segments of the population that would otherwise have been
difficult to reach.

59.     Initial challenges related to procurement were identified and addressed.
GVEP initially found it difficult to manage the small-sized sub-grants which are subject to
a one-size-fits-all approach of World Bank procedures for projects of all sizes and scales.
Relatively low level thresholds for projects requiring prior review created a significant role
for the Bank to review and clear every sub-grant processed. The implementing agency was
able to increase its capacity over time to apply the World Bank’s fiduciary guidelines to
the small project with several even smaller sub-grants.

60.   Over time, the implementing agency improved its ability to work in
coordination with Bank teams to support official agencies in beneficiary countries.


                                             26
The implementing agency had a variety of different roles and responsibilities in its role for
the ESME-SSA project, including the role of provider of technical assistance support to
official agencies that had their own separate ESME agreements with the World Bank. In
some countries, the ESME agreements between the Bank and official agencies took a long
time to become effective, leading to frustrating start-up delays for those operations, causing
similar delays to this project. The multiple roles were challenging for all involved, and
required clarity regarding the respective roles, e.g. in Tanzania and Rwanda, where GVEP
International’s role under the ESME-SSA project was as an adviser to the government
agencies, while it also advised SMEs and project developers to prepare their sub-grant
applications for consideration by the same agencies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

61.     Over the course of project implementation, GVEP became accustomed to
working with the World Bank, whose guidelines and procedures are clearly not
designed for small projects and organizations. As a small, mission-oriented, global
NGO, GVEP core competencies are to provide specialist business advisory services
focused on helping energy SMEs and small project developers with technology sourcing
and training, development of business skills, identifying and securing capital and helping
to develop supply chains and delivery networks to expand energy access. As a result, there
were sometimes differing sets of expectations between the Bank and GVEP. Personnel
changes at GVEP International and at the Bank during project implementation added to the
challenges of implementation. These challenges were magnified when GVEP International,
in turn, had to support and simultaneously hold even smaller private SMEs accountable to
World Bank guidelines and requirements. With support from the Bank following project
restructuring, GVEP hired more staff to address these fiduciary issues and to support SMEs
through this process. GVEP management, along with Bank staff, also spent considerable
time and effort to review and address gaps and shortcomings in the sub-grant contracts,
including sub-grantee procurement plans and related documentation. This was a
challenging process and GVEP remained committed to meeting these challenges
throughout the process, as demonstrated by the achievement of major project outcomes.

6. Lessons Learned

62.     The project has demonstrated that SMEs can be mobilized to cost-effectively
support government agencies to implement energy access programs to benefit hard-
to-reach customers. Government agencies are primarily focused on large scale
infrastructure and grid extension. It is rare to find government agencies actively engaged
in nurturing the activity of SMEs in the off-grid energy sector. Governments have
important roles in financing such programs, but are seldom in a good position to deliver
services directly. In Tanzania and Rwanda, the ESME-SSA project supported SMEs to
meet the requirements of government-led agencies to develop projects and expand energy
access. This has created further interest in using SMEs as an implementation vehicle to
deliver energy services to the poor. In Senegal and Kenya, the strong results demonstrated



                                             27
by the sub-grants program makes a strong argument for grant funding of SMEs in the early
phase of market development, with a gradual phase-out over time as the market develops,

63.     Cooperation with official agencies is a key success factor and project
implementation provided some good examples of such cooperation. Government
support and cooperation is an important ingredient of project success. One of the better
examples from this project is Senegal, where ASER, the rural energy agency, requested
GVEP International to administer the sub-grants. However, ASER remained an important
player, guiding the ESME-SSA project regarding priority geographic areas for SME
support as well as serving on the sub-grant Evaluation Committee, meeting regularly to
review and approve suitable applications from energy SMEs. This made it possible for the
ESME-SSA project to execute the government’s rural SME strategy, without overloading
the rural agency with the process of micro-managing sub-grants. The Senegal model of
involvement should be considered for any future sub-grant programs for energy SMEs in
other countries. Conversely, there were difficulties for GVEP in Tanzania and Rwanda,
where the official, state-led agencies were not initially comfortable with GVEP’s role both
as a third party supporting project feasibility studies and establishment of SME programs,
while also supporting project developers and SMEs to develop their business proposals and
applications.

64.     Targeted TA is a crucial success factor to support SME development in the
energy sector. The project focused its initial TA activities to support and then subsequently
to complement ongoing efforts of the national energy agencies, in particular in Rwanda
and Tanzania, where GVEP was not directly involved in financing sub-grants. Although
GVEP did not provide direct financing in those countries, it provided TA to SMEs and
project developers in finalizing feasibility studies, environmental and social safeguards
studies and business plans, thereby helping make the sub-projects more sustainable and
attractive to investors. With the necessary documentation, the developers were prepared to
apply for credit lines from government or commercial banks. Project preparation resources
and targeted TA can serve as quasi-project equity to help make energy projects more
bankable and move a greater number of well-prepared energy investments forward.

65.     The energy SMEs sector in Africa is highly dynamic and off-grid energy
markets change quickly. The main attractiveness of working with small SMEs is that they
are lean and nimble and can respond quickly to changing market conditions without
excessive bureaucracy. Very often, such SMEs do not have the staff and capacity to deal
with complex documentation and bureaucratic requirements. This creates a mismatch
between the strengths of SMEs and the Bank’s fiduciary guidelines, which are the same
whether a project is large or small, and regardless of the capacity of the beneficiary
organizations. In addition, GVEP International, a mission-driven small organization itself,
struggled at first to deal with Bank procedures and, as a small NGO with transient staff,
had limited experience in dealing with government partners in Africa. This made it more
difficult to assist the energy SMEs effectively. Ideally, in the future, the Bank could
develop simpler processes to deal with smaller projects or to consider guiding such projects
to use direct procurement methods using commercial practices. One approach worth
considering within the current guidelines could be the engagement of a professional



                                             28
services firm to conduct procurement and other fiduciary tasks on behalf of the
implementing agency. A more meaningful reform could designate the use of direct
procurement and other guidelines intended for the private sector as a good practice for
SME-targeted operations. For sub-grants, in particular, a simple, standard short template
could ease implementation challenges.

66. Future grants, including the next stage of GVEP support, should avoid any sub-
grants directly implemented by the implementing agency as this element added
considerable complexity not only in the form of perceived competition from some official
agencies, but also in terms of meeting Bank fiduciary requirements.. As noted in the
comments of the implementing agency, in one case, a US$ 100,000 sub-grant required 120
pages of documentation -- a significant portion of which was to meet World Bank
requirements. This raises a valid question whether implementing small sub-grants with
small SMEs is worth the transaction costs imposed on all parties unless these requirements
and guidelines can be simplified for such projects. For sub-grants, in particular, a simple,
standard short template for sub-grants under a specified threshold (e.g., US$250,000) could
ease some implementation challenges
.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
Not applicable

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                            29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
         Components                                      Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                            millions)

           Total Baseline Cost             10.20                8.97           87.94
Physical Contingencies
                                            0.00                0.00           00.00
Price Contingencies
                                            0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs            0.00                0.00
Project Preparation Costs                   0.00                0.00            .00
                                            0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required              10.20                8.97           87.94


(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of Co-      Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        financing        (USD         (USD     Appraisal
                                                        millions)    millions)
Trust Funds                                          0.00         0.00
Free-standing Single Purpose Trust
                                                     10.20       8.97         87.94
Fund




                                              30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

              Table 1: Project Development Objectives Indicator 1
PDO Indicator 1: Number of Government programs supporting SMEs designed
with GVEP assistance
Baseline     Outputs                              Outcomes
None         Regular stakeholder consultation     The      Tanzanian     government
             with the relevant Rwandan,           approved the ESME (“Green
             Tanzanian and Senegalese energy      Performance      Grant”),    grant
             agencies and project developers.     accounting for US$6.5 million in
                                                  February 2012.

                                                  The Government of Rwanda signed
                                                  the ESME grant agreement in August
                                                  2013 with a total amount of US$3.5
                                                  million for hydropower and off-grid
                                                  lighting projects.

                                                  In Senegal, the state rural energy
                                                  agency (ASER) was part of the
                                                  evaluation committee established for
                                                  the project and is continuing its own
                                                  programs targeting SMEs with
                                                  GVEP support.


              Table 2: Project Development Objectives Indicator 2
PDO Indicator 2: Number of SSA energy SMEs that reached government or
commercial funding thanks to GVEP technical support
Baseline     Outputs                              Outcomes
None         In Rwanda and Tanzania               In total, there are ten (10) recipients
             Technical Assistance to project      of government funding in Rwanda
             developers for achieving financial   including 3 Micro Hydropower
             closing provided.                    developers and seven (7) Off-Grid
                                                  lighting (OGL) companies.
             In Rwanda, six (6) distributors
             offering quality and low-cost        - Three hydropower projects in
             lighting solutions were supported    Rwanda received a grant of
             by the project in applying for       US$600,000 each – Kigasa (195
             market development grants            kW); Gaseke (500 kW) and Nyundo
             (Nuru, Barefoot, Great Lakes,        (4 MW) by the (EWSA).




                                        31
                Dassy, Serve & Smile, Munyax         Seven (7) distributors of off-grid
                Eco).                                lighting products in Rwanda were
                                                     awarded US$200,000 each by
                                                     EWSA and offer Lighting Africa
                                                     certified products. Six (6) of these
                                                     were supported by the project.

                                                     -In Tanzania, the project supported
                                                     technical, financial and viability
                                                     studies as well as ESIAs completed
                                                     for six (6) hydropower projects. It
                                                     also supported each of these projects
                                                     to obtain or apply for all necessary
                                                     licenses.

                                                     -One Tanzania project, Darakuta
                                                     (250 kW) successfully obtained a
                                                     commercial loan from CRDB Bank
                                                     p.l.c. and achieved financial close.


                Table 3: Project Development Objectives Indicator 3
PDO Indicator 3: Number of off-grid lighting products distributed in Kenya
Baseline        Outputs                              Outcomes
Not available   Eight (8) distributors of Off-Grid   166,336 solar lanterns sold over the
                Lighting (OGL) products              course of seven (7) months until
                awarded grants up to US$150,000      October 2014. Products vary from
                for marketing support and            small task lights to solar home
                injection of working capital to      systems.
                increase stock and promote sales
                                                     Provision of access to energy for an
                                                     estimated 500,000 persons provided
                                                     in Kenya (based on an anticipated
                                                     beneficiaries per product). Each
                                                     household is estimated to comprise
                                                     five (persons) with 100,000
                                                     beneficiary households estimated.




                                           32
                Table 4: Project Development Objectives Indicator 4
PDO Indicator 4: Number of SMEs that acquired a new electricity connection to expand
their business in Senegal
Baseline        Outputs                               Outcomes
Not available   Pipeline of suitable SMEs for         In total, 12 multi-sectorial SME
                Productive Use Promotion              (PREM) received a new electricity
                identified where growth is            connection or expanded electricity
                hampered by lack of energy.           service for productive uses.

                Business plans for expanding     Three (3) multi-sectorial SMEs
                operations of SMEs developed and (Karara, Temeye and Bollo Diame)
                training provided                were connected to the grid, the other
                                                 nine (9) were provided with
                Business and technical training, standalone solutions using solar PV
                advice on reliable solar PV      with diesel as a backup.
                product suppliers, and loan
                financing provided to phone      Forty-Seven (47) micro businesses
                service companies                providing phone charging services
                                                 in off grid areas around
                                                 Tambacounda provided using solar
                                                 PV systems.

Table 5: Intermediate Outcome Indicator 1
IO Indicator 1: Number of SSA energy SMEs assisted by GVEP’s technical support
Baseline        Outputs                               Outcomes
None            Tanzania:                             GVEP supported six (6) project
                Feasibility studies, ESIAs business   developers of Hydro Power
                plans completed for six (6)           projects in Tanzania, three (3) in
                hydropower projects and all           Rwanda, six (6) Off-Grid Lighting
                necessary licenses either obtained    (OGL) SMEs in Rwanda, and three
                or applied for                        (3) Improved Stove Distributors in
                                                      Uganda. (In addition, eight (8)
                Rwanda:                               SMEs in Kenya and twelve (12)
                Two (2) feasibility studies for       SMEs in Senegal were also
                Nyundo and Rubagabaga                 provided     business     advisory
                finalized.                            services).

                Three (3) days of training for 18
                participants from major banks on
                financing opportunities in small
                hydro and solar photovoltaic
                products provided


                                           33
                Uganda:
                Three (3) stove distributors
                (International Lifeline Fund,
                Energy Uganda Foundation, and
                African Energy and Environment
                Saving) selected and supported in
                expanding their distribution
                network in rural and peri-urban
                areas

                Consumer studies were carried out
                in the retailer’s areas, and advice
                given on marketing and price

                Three (3) stove distributors
                received action plans to improve
                the quality of their stove.

                    Table 6: Intermediate Outcome Indicator 2

IO Indicator 2: Number of off-grid lighting companies awarded a grant in Kenya
Baseline                     Outputs                        Outcomes
None                         Suitable Off-Grid Lighting     Eight (8) distributors of Off-
                             (OGL) companies for            Grid     Lighting      (OGL)
                             market development             products awarded grants up
                             support identified.            to    a     maximum         of
                                                            US$150,000         (Hensolex,
                             Independent evaluation         Smart Solar, One Degree
                             committee for selection        Solar, Renewable Energy
                             established and eight (8)      Ventures, Solaata, Mibawa,
                             grantees selected.             Solatek, Sunny Money).

                             Assistance in the grant
                             application process to eight
                             (8) companies provided.




                                          34
                    Table 7: Intermediate Outcome Indicator 3

IO Indicator 3: Number of energy SMEs awarded a grant for expanding their productive
uses of electricity in Senegal.
Baseline                    Outputs                      Outcomes
None                        Pipeline of suitable SMEs  Twelve (12) multi-sectorial
                            for     Productive    Use  SMEs were awarded a grant
                            Promotion identified where (in total $1.3m) including
                            growth is hampered by lack three dairies (Billaame,
                            of energy                  SSA, Fermier), two tourist
                            Suitable sub-grant         camps (Dogon and Cascade)
                            templates agreements       and seven (7) agricultural
                            developed                  businesses (Karara, Bolo
                                                       Diamme, Temeye, Vision
                            Independent     evaluation Plus,    La    Mangueraie,
                            committee for selection of Experna).
                            grantees          (SMEs)
                            established




                                        35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

66.     An economic and financial analysis was not conducted at design. There was no
overall analysis conducted during design of the GVEP project because individual activities
in the various countries were very diverse and they included a variety of technologies and
approaches used. Economic and financial analysis was conducted during implementation
for the sub-grants administered by the project. All sub-grant project proposals were
screened for economic and financial viability. Project design considered economic and
financial analysis of sub-grants to be important to assess that the investments would result
in productivity improvements leading to increased revenues, with benefits exceeding costs
and a net positive Net Present Value (NPV).

67.      In Kenya and Senegal, criteria for the approval procedures for individual sub-
grants were established to receive viable proposals. They were assessed according to
their financial and economic viability and included individual businesses plans. The
selected sub-grants in Kenya were carefully selected based on the following demonstrated
criteria: (i) commercial viability, (ii) completeness of proposal, (iii) sales and business
scale up, (iv) organizational capacity, (v) additionality and development impact and (vi)
innovation. Similarly, in Senegal, sub-grants were evaluated against criteria that included
(i) commercial viability, (ii) energy access need and availability of solution, (iii)
completeness of proposal, (iv) sales and business scale up, (v) organizational capacity, and
(vi) additionality and development impact. Key importance was placed on the practicability
and realistic nature of its business case and were assessed to demonstrate realistic overall
profitability and a favorable return on investment to be considered for the sub-grant.

68.      Lighting Africa estimates that a typical household in Kenya spends US$78 annually
on its lighting and cell phone charging needs. A median cost of a solar PV lantern that can
provide an appropriate level of lighting and charge a cell phone is US$40. Considering a
conservative estimate of a lantern life time of two years, a household will experience
immediate monetary savings of US$38 in the first year itself. Additional quantifiable
benefits include consumer surplus from improved lighting service, and the global
environmental benefits from the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. More difficult to
quantify are the health and educational benefits.

69.     The OGL lantern sales figures supported by this project have provided access to
energy for over 500,000 persons representing an estimated 166,000 households. With a
total amount of US$1,108,000 for disbursed grants access to energy amounted to US$2.22
per person. By way of comparison, grid-based electrification in Kenya, usually charges
consumers a connection cost of approximately US$ 382 and additional US$0.13 per kWh
consumed. This shows that off-grid solutions are a remarkably cost-efficient in comparison
and a viable choice, especially for poor rural and urban households.




                                            36
70.     Net Present Value (NPV) and payback analysis shows that off-grid solutions
can be a highly attractive and efficient investment. Estimates from the Lighting Africa12
program indicate that a typical household in Kenya spends US$78 annually on its lighting
and cell phone charging needs. The median cost of a solar PV lantern that can provide a
basic level of lighting and charge a cell phone is US$40, although pricing can progressively
be up to $400. Assuming a price of US$80 for appropriate service level and a conservative
estimate of life time of two years, a household will experience immediate monetary savings
of US$76 over two years, creating immediate savings that can be used for various other
activities. The small investment has a payback period of one year and a strong positive Net
Present Value (NPV). Additional quantifiable benefits include consumer surplus from
improved lighting service, and the global environmental benefits from the reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions. Other benefits include health and educational benefits, although
these are more difficult to quantify.

71.       Assumptions are summarized below in Table 1:

                                   Table 1: Assumptions of Analysis
             Assumptions:                                                                   
             Annual current cost                                                  78        
             Unit cost (US$)/OGL                                                  40        
             OGL life                                                              2      Years 
             Number of units                                                 100,000        
             Discount rate                                                      10%         

72.     The analysis in the table below considers the direct costs of 100,000 OGL units
and does not take into account the entire value stream, including upstream costs of market
development, business development and market research, which are key elements of
identifying and accessing the vast potential markets. These provide an NPV of nearly
US$10 million at a discount rate of 10% without a subsidy, which climbs to US$11.4
million with a low 1% discount rate that simulates the impact of the subsidy. A sensitivity
analysis at 5%, 10% and 20% discount rates shows NPV values of US$10.7 million,
US$9.9 million and US$8.6 million respectively.

                              Table 2: Project NPV Economic Analysis

                                                  Year 1               Year 2 
                  Current Costs                 $7,800,000          $7,800,000
                  Cost of OGL                   $4,000,000               0 
                  Net benefit                   $3,800,000          $7,800,000 
                                                $11,408,685           




12
   Lighting Africa is a joint World Bank and IFC program that works towards improving access to better lighting in
areas not yet connected to the electricity grid.




                                                         37
73.    The value addition of the grant is clear from the analysis which considers the
impact of the subsidy (modeled as a 1% cost of financing compared to market rates
of 20%). As the analysis shows, there is a 33% value addition from the subsidy to NPV,
which helps SMEs address their working capital needs. Once they are operational, the
SMEs with sound business plans and execution should be able to service this market
without reliance on further external subsidies.

                                    Table 3: Value Addition of Grant

             % value addition at 1% interest rate                                                  33%
             % value addition at 5% interest rate                                                  25%
             % value addition at 10% interest rate                                                 15%
             Baseline 20% commercial interest rates/Kenya                                           0%

74.      The project successfully provided low-cost access to energy Analysis conducted
of Kenya OGL lantern sales figures indicate that access to energy was provided for
approximately 500,000 persons, mainly in rural areas. With a total amount of
US$1,108,000 disbursed through sub-grants administered by GVEP International for the
ESME-SSA project, access to energy was provided at a direct cost of US$2.22 per person
served.13 This is well in line with the estimated Euro 2.60 per beneficiary supported by
GVEP in the period April 2009-November 2014 across various grant programs. These
numbers are remarkably cost-efficient considering comparable costs for grid-based
electrification for which the Kenya utility, for example, charges a connection fee of 35,000
Ksh (US$371), with fees based on electricity use as well. Kenya Power had submitted a
recent request to the regulator to raise the connection fee to 50,000 KSh.or US$530 per
household, which more closely is said to reflect the true cost of service. Given the large-
scale differences in these costs, it can be seen that off-grid solutions provide an exceptional
cost-effective bridge solution until the grid can be extended to cover more customers.
Studies conducted through the project also indicate that a wide range of off-grid and mini-
grid solutions for rural areas can be viable investment alternatives.

75.     It is estimated that kerosene emits approximately 2.5kg of CO2 per liter fuel
consumed, and on the basis of the assumption that the average household consumes
5 liters per month which results in 150kg of CO2 emissions a year. The average
household has one or two wick lamps or more efficient hurricane lamps which are used 3-
4 hours daily. For Kenya, there were 166,336 OGL products sold by end October 2014
which would provide 16,663 t CO2 saved on an annual basis. In the case of Rwanda 3,973
lanterns were sold by seven OGL companies by the end of August 2014. As an estimation
397.30 t were saved on an annual basis, which at an economic value of US$30/ton add
significant economic benefit to the project. Since these figures were calculated over the
period of few months, additional savings can be expected in the future. These have not
been taken into account in the analysis above.


13 Here again, this analysis considers the direct costs of the OGL equipment and does not take into account the upstream

costs of market development, business development and market research, which are key elements of identifying and
accessing the vast potential markets.


                                                          38
   76.     Although it is hard to measure, the economic benefits of the health impacts of
   OGL products are likely substantial. The two main risks are chronic illness due to indoor
   air pollution and risk of injury due to the flammable nature of the fuels used. Kerosene
   lamps emit fine particles which causes indoor air pollution because they quickly become
   lodged in the bronchial system and can result in chronic disease and death. Burning a lamp
   indoors for just four hours are responsible for concentrations of toxic particles many times
   higher than permitted by the World Health Organization standard. OGL products are a
   clean and affordable alternative to these polluting lamps being a burden on the public
   health.

   77.     In the case of Senegal a list of the 12 supported Energy SME is provided in
   Table 4. The total amount disbursed by the Bank was approximately US$1.3 million to
   SMEs to connect to electricity either via a grid extension or through an acquisition of a
   stand-alone renewable energy system, such as solar PV system. The investments in
   electricity connections resulted in productivity improvements leading to increased
   revenues, expected to result in robust economic rates of returns. Since many of the SME
   had only operated these for a brief time by the time of project closing, it was too early for
   an overall analysis of the project. In the beginning of the project all applicants to the sub-
   grant agreements provided a detailed business plan which was screened by an independent
   evaluation committee. For each grantee the IRR and NPV was calculated for the year 2018
   on a 5-year period. With two exceptions, the IRR was over 16%. The summary is provided
   in Table 4 below, which was also a basis for approving the sub-grants.

                         Table 4: List of Supported SMEs in Senegal

                                                                 GVEP
          SME                            Activity                                NPV          IRR
                                                                Subsidy
Senegal Agro Alimentaire              Dairy Unit                $134,466       $731,793       35%
GIE Le Fermier                        Dairy Unit                $115,102       $135,922       20%
GIE Bilaame Pul Debbo                 Dairy Unit                $116,306       $336,418       32%
Le Dogon du Fouta                    Tourist Camp               $103,766        $35,820       11%
GIE Les Cascades                     Tourist Camp               $126,278        $12,530        4%
Mu'nal de Gaigui               Shea butter processing unit       $39,875        $61,145       31%
GIE Experna                      Baobab processing unit          $51,911        $63,072       28%
Vision Plus                      Baobab processing unit          $48,732        $79,260       30%
Mangueraie SARL                Cashew nuts processing unit      $150,000       $226,715       27%
Karara Suarl                         Poultry Farm               $143,995       $103,418       16%
Temeye Agro SARL                   Agricultural farm            $135,464       $161,781       29%
GIE Bolo Diame                         Rice farm                $125,731       $350,936       42%

                                                               $1,291,627




                                                39
78.     In Uganda, testing of improved cook stoves was carried out as part of the
support to stove distribution companies. The initial result of the improved stoves tested
were between 35-39 percent efficiency compared to traditional fuel usage on the basis of a
Controlled Cooking Test. Considering that one kg of traditional wood emits 1,560g CO2
emissions the potential savings by mass dissemination of improved stoves will be
substantial. The saving of CO2 emissions from a charcoal stove is 360.8 kg and from a
fuelwood stove is 1.150.5 kg per year. In addition, the true economic costs of charcoal
production is usually not accounted for as wood is seen as a free resource. Improved stoves
also reduce the economic costs posed by health hazards in particular Indoor Air Pollution
(IAP). The benefits are hard to capture due to steep dose-response curve. However, it is
estimated that improved stoves can reduce 25-60 percent of IAP upper respiratory
illnesses.14




14   Stove Performance Inventory Report, UN Foundation, 2012


                                                        40
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
       Names                            Title                      Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Juliet Pumpuni       Senior Infrastructure Specialist          GUROA      ESME-GVEP TTL
Dana Rysankova       Senior Energy Specialist                  AFTG 2     ESME Program TL
Tjaarda P. Storm Van
                     Senior Energy Specialist                  AFTG 2     Adviser
Leeuwen

Supervision/ICR
                                                                          ESME-GVEP TTL (pre-
Juliet Pumpuni        Senior Infrastructure Specialist         GUROA      and until Additional
                                                                          Financing)
Dana Rysankova        Senior Energy Specialist                 AFTG 2     ESME Program TL
                                                                          ESME-GVEP TTL (post-
Karan Capoor          Senior Energy Specialist                 GEEDR
                                                                          Additional Financing)
Siet Meijer           Operations Officer                       GEEDR      ESME Program TL
Marie Lolo Sow        Program Assistant                        GEEDR      Program Assistant
Mei Wang              Senior Counsel                           LEGAM      Lawyer
                                                                          ICR Lead Author;
Roman Grüner          Consultant                               GEEDR
                                                                          Implementation STC
Gulgorin Cansiz       Consultant                               GEEDR      Procurement STC
                      Natural Resource Management
Melissa Landesz                                                GENDR      Safeguards Specialist
                      Specialist
Patrick Umah Tete     Senior Financial Management Specialist   GGODR      Financial Man. Spec
Emile Takeau          Consultant                               GGODR      Financial Man. Spec.

   (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                             Total:                         N.A.                           N.A.
Supervision/ICR
FY12                                                           0                         24.27
FY13                                                        5.98                         64.98
FY14                                                       16.58                        216.71
FY15                                                       41.05                        123.12
                             Total:                        63.61                        429.08




                                                 41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                     43
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     GVEP International provided the World Bank with team with a Completion Report
on the Energy Small and Medium Enterprises Support in Sub-Saharan Africa project by
October 10, 2014 as a first draft. The report included an assessment of the operational
experience and the results achieved by the project in Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya,
Senegal and Mali from June 2009 until October 2014. The Bank has provided comments
and received an updated draft in November 2014, which is reproduced verbatim below.
The Bank team notes that it views the implementing agency’s comments as a valuable input
to the Bank’s ICR process and appreciates the candor of the views expressed. Both the
Bank and GVEP have learned from the experiences in implementing this project.

Introduction

2.       This closing report provides a high level summary of the achievements and lessons
learned from the implementation of the Energy SME Support in Sub-Saharan Africa
Project (TF 094542-3A), which became effective on 19 June 2009 through a sub-grant
agreement between the World Bank and GVEP. Earlier in 2009 the Russian Federation had
provided US$30 million to a World Bank Trust Fund with the objective of supporting the
development of SMEs in the energy sector and fostering local entrepreneurship in selected
sub-Saharan countries. GVEP was charged with developing program proposals for a
number of countries in dialogue with the local governments and other stakeholders. It was
initially intended that most of the funding would be disbursed through relevant government
agencies, with GVEP providing technical assistance. The implementation was scheduled
to be concluded by 31 December 2012.

3.     As a result of implementation delays and then a change of scope an overall
extension was agreed to 31 August 2014. An amendment signed on 11 June 2013 expanded
GVEP’s role to include grant management, and provided an additional US$ 5.2 million,
including funding for grants to SMEs in Kenya and Senegal. A further two month extension
to 31 October 2014 was approved in August 2014 to allow for completion of some actions.

4.      The report summarizes the design phase and implementation experience, and
presents the achievements against objectives as of 31 October 2014. Comments on the
performance of GVEP and the Bank are included. In order to stay within the word limit
required for the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), only key selected
aspects of the operational experience and lessons have been highlighted. Given the number
of countries and the complex implementation arrangements, we have not reviewed every
detail of the design and implementation in each country. We have reported in some detail
on results achieved. The observations and comments in this report are intended to be
constructive and to support the overall learning objectives of the ICR process.

5.     A general theme running through this report relates to the conflict between Bank
approaches and procedures and the nature of the ESME program as envisaged by the donor
in the Trust Fund agreement. These tensions have been a source of frequent delays
throughout the 5 years of implementation, impacting on the quality of the outcomes and



                                           44
creating considerable management cost for the Bank. These problems arose mainly from
the way the Bank wanted programs designed and implemented, overly bureaucratic
processes unsuited to dealing with the SME sector, and long delays internally within the
Bank securing signoff at key stages.

6.     Our comments relate to procedures and policies not to the staff at the Bank with
whom we have had a good working relationship. The individuals we have interacted with
in Washington DC have been supportive and helpful throughout the program and the results
achieved would not have been realized without their commitment and collaboration.

Assessment of the operation’s objective, design, implementation, and operational
experience

       Objectives and design

7.     During the design phase GVEP was required by the Bank to develop programs
aligned with existing Bank supported activity. The ESME TF funding was then to be
provided as ‘additional finance’ to existing Bank supported initiatives. This was considered
to be the most straightforward way administratively to handle the funding. Individual
governments’ priorities in enabling energy access vary from country to country as do the
nature of the Bank supported programs in those countries and the programs designed for
the ESME funds necessarily reflected these differences.

8.      The design requirements posed challenges. SMEs did not feature to any large
degree in the energy access strategies of most governments at the time the design was
undertaken. Existing Bank supported programs were primarily about energy sector reform,
grid extension and increases in large scale generating capacity. In some countries the SME
sector was small. Securing government interest in implementing activity specifically
aimed at nurturing energy supply by SMEs was not easy. The extensive documentation
required by the Bank for Project Appraisal Documents including detailed evidence of the
existence of a pipeline of ‘bankable’ businesses was difficult to provide given the nascent
character of the SME energy sector and the existence of competing donor funds looking
for projects. Eventually solutions were agreed for all countries but this took 18 months and
absorbed a significant amount of the available funds.

9.      For Tanzania and Rwanda, the focus and objectives were agreed in the autumn of
2010 and refined over the following months. In both countries the design conformed
broadly to the preferred model. Sub-grants to small projects and SMEs, which would allow
them to become financially viable and attractive to investors, were to be managed by the
government agencies. GVEP’s role was to provide technical assistance in the form of
feasibility studies and engineering advice for small private hydropower projects, as well as
work with these firms on their business and financial plans, and eventually link them to
sources of funds, both grants and loans.

10.     In Tanzania, through the World Bank’s TEDAP Program, subsidies for connections
and a loan scheme were already in place and it was planned that GVEP would help projects



                                            45
to apply to these funds. In parallel the Bank decided to use funds from the ESME TF to
create an additional financing window based on projected carbon emission reductions, to
be managed through the Rural Electrification Agency. In Rwanda, with GVEP’s assistance,
the Energy Water and Sanitation Authority (EWSA) would establish grant schemes for a)
small hydropower projects, and b) to support the marketing cost of distributors of off-grid
lighting products. Besides providing technical assistance to hydropower projects (ESIAs,
legal/transaction advice, capital raising), GVEP was expected to work with solar
companies to develop the required marketing strategy and documentation to enable them
to apply for grants.

11.      In Uganda, the original design concept was expected to be similar to Tanzania, but
after a considerable amount of work Uganda was dropped because of Bank concerns about
the slow progress in the implementation of the government’s electrification strategy and
questions about the REA’s capacity. The Bank used funds released from Uganda to support
a rural electrification program in Botswana but GVEP had no involvement in this initiative.
Later, in 2013, after the project in Mali had to be closed due to the deteriorating security
situation, a new project around the distribution of improved cookstoves within the Banks’
Africa Clean Cooking Energy Solutions (ACCES) initiative was created for Uganda. This
was a small, short-term intervention made possible by the Bank’s emerging interest in clean
cooking. The new program focused on building distribution networks for 2-3 local
manufacturers of improved stoves with the intention of reaching customers outside the
Kampala metropolitan area. The stove makers were to be selected on the basis of capacity
and proven quality of the product, including testing for emissions.

12.      In Mali the Bank proposed that to avoid the cost and delays of the design work in
other countries ESME funds be allocated to help finance an existing Bank supported rural
electrification program. This involved financing and technical support for small scale
energy service providers around the country. GVEP was assigned a role in developing
technical training and in exploring potential sources of private sector investment. Civil
conflict in the country led to the closure of the program.

13.     In Kenya and Senegal, the original designs again tried to follow the desired model
of having government agencies manage the bulk of the funds with GVEP playing a
‘capacity building’ role. In Senegal the focus was on ‘productive use’ – supporting a small
number of SMEs constrained by inadequate energy supply. Work on identifying a pipeline
of suitable businesses was completed by the end of 2010. In Kenya, the last focus country
to be agreed, consultants began work in December 2010 preparing a program of support
for a range of small energy projects, with funding to be managed by the REA. After the
report was submitted the Bank expressed concern about the ability of REA to manage
financing of such projects and wanted the scope reduced to technical assistance to be
provided by GVEP. Later the Bank decided this approach also should be revised. The
program design ended up, towards the end of 2011, focusing on grants to support the
marketing costs of distributors off-grid lighting products.

14.    In Senegal the government agency ASER advised that they did not have the
capacity to manage small grants for productive use projects and asked that GVEP manage



                                            46
the administration. In Kenya the Bank decided that the REA did not have the capacity to
manage the program and eventually agreed GVEP should manage the grants. For GVEP to
play this wider role a revision to the original TF agreement with the donor was required,
and then a revised sub-grant agreement with GVEP had to be put in place. A request was
made to the Russian government by the Bank in February 2012 and agreed by the donor in
May. It then took a further 13 months to agree a revised sub-grant agreement with GVEP.
Part of the delay arose from the Bank determining in September 2012 that ESMFs had to
be prepared for the Senegal and Kenya grant schemes. This was a requirement no one on
the Bank team was previously aware was necessary and it took five months. The
amendment to GVEPs sub-grant agreement was finally approved in June 2013 with an end
date of 31 August 2014.

       Implementation and operational experience

15.     The long delays did not stop with the end of the design phase for each country. In
Rwanda where the project design was signed off in March 2011 the Bank eventually
entered into a grant agreement with the government only in September 2012. The
government then failed to activate the grant agreement and had to apply to have this
reinstated. Funds were finally disbursed to EWSA in September 2013. While arrangements
between the Bank and the government of Rwanda were being sorted out GVEP was advised
to develop a pipeline of eligible projects and businesses in line with the project design
documents which we did, keeping the government informed of our activity. EWSA staff
began to engage seriously with the program only in 2013 when funds were disbursed. The
project document agreed with the Bank was questioned and revisions to the program sought
by EWSA who wanted to re-advertise the scheme to allow additional companies to apply.
Changes of personnel in government agencies led to discontinuities. In mid-2013 newly
appointed officials wanted to start from scratch and re-advertise the scheme. Considerable
confusion arose and candidate businesses we had been working with were left unclear as
to whether support would be forthcoming. For the hydro projects ESME funds had been
used to complete feasibility studies to ready the projects for capital subsidies, but that
funding now seemed in question. Arrangements were agreed with EWSA late in 2013 to
allow off-grid lighting businesses to apply for grants, and a scheme for providing grants to
hydro-projects was also put in place. These schemes were operated by EWSA with GVEP
providing assistance to applicants for funding. Grants were made under both schemes
despite the very reduce implementing timeframe.

16.      In Tanzania the REA was not particularly comfortable with having a third party
(GVEP) involved in the program. The REA would have preferred to be given funds to use
itself rather than have a third party support feasibility studies. The issues were not specific
to GVEP but to do with broader concerns about control, operational complexity etc.
Agreeing with them which hydro-projects we would support with feasibility studies took
seven months, being finally agreed in December 2011. Lengthy procurement procedures
then led to more delays. Procurement for the feasibility studies in Tanzania began in April
2012 but the contract with the selected supplier was only signed in January 2013. The
requirement have the ToRs for the studies approved by the Bank led to several staff at the
Bank issuing contradictory advice which it took time to resolve. The ToRs ended up being



                                              47
over-specified and when proposal were received they were beyond the scope of the budget.
The scope of work then had to be reduced to what was affordable. This delayed the process
by many months. Hydrology data was difficult to obtain for some sites with local water
basin management authorities proving unreliable. The ESIAs prepared in December 2013
were approved by the environmental regulator only towards the end of the program,
delaying applications from developers for REA funds. Applicants to NEMA regularly
experience these long bureaucratic delays. REA has experienced delays of 12 months for
some its own projects. A complete file including all the technical feasibility studies,
demand assessments, assessments of solar min-grid options (2 sites), and details of funding
applications were handed over to REA at the end of the program.

17.     In Kenya and Senegal the programs could not start until the revised sub-grant
agreement was in place – this was signed 11 June 2013 allowing just over 14 months to
realize the programs which had been designed to be implemented over a two year plus
period. Both schemes were initiated immediately. In both cases considerable volumes of
paperwork had to be generated to secure Bank ‘no objections’ to proceed with disbursing
grants. The sub-grant agreements with the productive use projects run to more than 120
pages for grants which in some cases are less than $100,000. Sub-grant agreements were
signed in November with the first group of businesses whose applications had been worked
on in advance. A second group of businesses whose investment plans still had to be
developed took longer. The final payments to these beneficiaries were made in October
2014. The original program design included a period of mentoring for the businesses to
ensure the effective use of the investments. The constricted timeframe did not allow for
this component. The intervention ended up being focused largely on equipment supply.

18.      The documents for the Kenya off-grid lighting grants are also lengthy. Grantees
were selected by an independent evaluation committee during September and October 2013.
Sub-grant agreements with benefiting companies were finally signed in March 2013 and
funds released. Because of the short time scale the funding mainly financed stock purchase.
Delays and uncertainties at various points in the programs caused considerable frustration
for participating business as well as creating logistical challenges for GVEP.


Outcomes

19.     Despite the challenges, most objectives will be met, though not always quite in the
ways originally envisaged. The off-grid lighting grants programs were originally intended
to fund marketing and distribution activity with GVEP providing technical advice to the
benefiting companies, but because of reduced implementation times funds were used
largely to finance stock. In Kenya, we were able to link the eight grantees with electronics
recycling centres capable of processing redundant product. The volume of product sold far
exceeded the target in the results framework.

20.     In Senegal the provision of equipment to the PREMs was originally planned to be
part of a larger program of engagement with at least a year of follow up to make sure the
investments were being used well. The very reduced timescale for implementation meant



                                            48
that the program focused on the procurement of equipment. Grants to 12 businesses were
disbursed by the end of the program. Business and technical training support was also
provided to a group of micro-businesses operating phone charging services in off-grid areas
using solar PV equipment. These businesses were linked with reliable suppliers of solar
equipment and provided with support accessing micro-finance loans.

21.     In Tanzania and Rwanda we had hoped to bring several hydro site developers to a
point of financial close but the long delays (for reasons referred to above) this was only
achieved in a limited number of cases. Darakuta in Tanzania secured debt financing in June
2014 and is fully financed. (The award of $600k from EWSA to LED solutions for a
195kW site also means that project is fully funded though GVEP had no involvement with
this project developer.) In other cases, the technical and economic studies have enabled
projects to progress with several now likely to be built. For the two larger sites Lingatunda
and Luswisi in Tanzania GVEP was able to secure the interest on an external developer
(Virunga Power) which is supported by an investor (Responsibility). The developer is
seeking to agree contracts with the local communities to develop the sites. Assuming
agreement is reached the developer has the capability to raise finance and there are a
number of sources of financing available

22.     A further site Mwoga appears to be technically viable but needs more secure
hydrological data. The local authority sponsoring this site has been very unresponsive and
difficult to work with. For two sites in Tanzania considered uneconomic studies on a solar
PV option were conducted. In one case, Ihalula, we have advised the developer to focus on
a minor upgrade of an existing turbine which powers a water bottling plant. In the other
case the community wished to pursue grant funding for the hydro scheme. GVEP will
provide ongoing support to this project (financed from other donor funds.)

23.     The carbon funding window never materialized but the projects will be able to
apply for support from the REA.GVEP had planned to support project developers in
applications for funding under the Bank funded TEDAP program but the long delay in
approvals from NEMA for the ESIAs meant this could not be progressed. All of the
feasibility studies and associated documents will provided to REA along with a handover
report. The handover report will be sent to the Bank once complete.

24.    In Rwanda two of the projects supported by GVEP (Nyundo and Gaseke) were
successful in securing funding from EWSA, (along with LED mentioned above.) Both of
these developers are still in the process of securing other funding but both sites have a high
probability of being constructed. Seven off-grid lighting businesses in Rwanda also
received grants from EWSA. The long delays meant that the planned pico-hydro work
became redundant as other donors had stepped in to fund the activity.

25.    Comprehensive dossiers on all grant recipients in Senegal and Kenya were
submitted to the Bank, and the feasibility studies and, ESIAs for hydro projects in Tanzania
and Rwanda have also been filed with the Bank. These more detailed documents should be
referenced if further background information is required on the individual projects and
SME businesses. The program achievements are detailed in the results framework attached



                                             49
as an appendix. The table below gives an overview of the outcomes and challenges for each
country.

                    Table 1. Overview of outcomes per country
             Focus of the support   Achievements            Challenges
             Technical Assistance       Feasibility studies and     Very long procurement
             to selected hydropower     ESIAs completed for 6       process for consultants to
             projects (120kW to         hydropower projects; all    conduct feasibility
             4MW)                       necessary licenses          studies;
                                        obtained or applied for.    Lack of adequate flow
                                        One project Darakuta        data and non-
                                        (250 kW) was able to        performance of local
                                        obtain a loan from          water basins and
                                        CRDB bank and achieve       consultants hired for
                                        financial close. Two        obtaining data;
                                        others Lingatunda           Two projects
                                        (2.5MW) and Luswisi         economically not viable
                                        (4.7 MW) are in             and better served through
 Tanzania
                                        discussion with a           solar mini-grids or home
                                        developer/investor. A       systems;
                                        fourth Mwoga (550 kW)       Weak organizational
                                        is stalled because the      structures of community-
                                        local govt body             owned projects.
                                        sponsoring the project is
                                        disengaged. Two projects
                                        Ihalula (120 kW) and
                                        Mlangali (420 kW) were
                                        deemed not to be
                                        economically viable and
                                        would require 100%
                                        philanthropic funding.
             Micro-hydropower           3 hydropower projects       2 years delay in the grant
             (400kW to 4MW)             received a grant of         agreement between the
             Pico-hydropower (<         US$ 600,000 each –          World Bank and EWSA,
             50kW)                      Kigasa (195 kW);            led to companies being
             Distribution of off-grid   Gaseke (500 kW) and         frustrated and rushed
             lighting products          Nyundo (4 MW).A             implementation;
 Rwanda                                 feasibility study was       Pico-hydro component
                                        funded for Nyundo, and      not implemented - had
                                        for another site (with a    become obsolete as
                                        different developer)        additional funding
                                        Rubagabaga. The latter      (GVEP, GIZ, BTC) has
                                        did not receive ESME        been mobilized in the
                                        support through EWSA.       meantime;



                                            50
                                   7 distributors of off-grid Change of agreed scope
                                   lighting products were      of grants by EWSA once
                                   awarded US$ 200,000         the GA was signed.
                                   each by EWSA. GVEP
                                   worked with six of these
                                   on their applications
                                   (Nuru, Barefoot, Great
                                   Lakes, Dassy, Serve &
                                   Smile, Munyax Eco);
                                   GVEP conducted 3 days
                                   of training for 18
                                   participants from all
                                   major banks on financing
                                   opportunities in small
                                   hydro and solar PV
                                   products. The training
                                   included a field visit to a
                                   small hydro site.
                                   Technical training was
                                   also provided to pico-
                                   hydropower
                                   entrepreneurs and GVEP
                                   completed a market study
                                   of pico-hydro potential
                                   http://www.gvepinternati
                                   onal.org/sites/default/file
                                   s/pico-
                                   hydro_market_in_rwand
                                   a.pdf .
         Distribution of           3 Cookstove                  Delays reaching
         improved cookstoves       manufacturers AEES,          agreement with ACCES
         in rural and peri-urban   EUF and ILF supported        on the proposed work
         areas                     in growing their             plan reduced time for
                                   distribution network         implementation.
                                   following testing of their   A new distribution
                                   stoves.                      network was established
                                   Clusters of retailers were   but no time was left to
Uganda
                                   recruited in eastern         provide ongoing support
                                   Uganda for AEES, in          to ensure the
                                   western for EUF and in       relationships work.
                                   the north where ILF is
                                   based. Twelve retailers in
                                   total were recruited
                                   serviced by a single
                                   distributor who



                                       51
                               transporters the stoves.
                               Consumer studies were
                               carried out in the
                               retailers’ areas, and
                               advice given on
                               marketing and price. The
                               retailers’ locations are:
                               Mbarara (2), Ibanda,
                               Kabale (2), Jinja,
                               Iganga, Soroti, Mbale,
                               Kotido (2) & Moroto
          Productive use of    12 multi-sectorial energy    Delays led to companies
          energy where SMEs    projects (PREMs) funded      being frustrated and
          are constrained in   including three dairies      rushed implementation.
          growth by lack of    (Billaame, SSA,              Lack of time for follow-
          energy               Fermier), two tourist        up by GVEP.
                               camps (Dogon and
                               Cascade) and a range of
                               agricultural businesses
                               (Karara, Bolo Diamme,
                               Temeye, Vision Plus, La
                               Mangueraie, Experna.)
                               Three (Karara, Temeye
                               and Bollo Diame) were
                               connected to the grid, the
                               other 9 have been
                               provided with standalone
Senegal                        solutions using solar PV
                               with diesel as a backup.
                               $1.3m in grant support
                               provided.


          Support to phone     47 micro businesses          The original plan was to
          charging service     providing phone              mentor these businesses
          providers            charging servives in off     over an 18 month period.
                               grid areas around            The compressed
                               Tambacounda were             implementation
                               provided with business       timeframe reduced this
                               and technical training,      intervention to a training
                               advice on reliable solar     programme with limited
                               PV product suppliers,        follow up.
                               and assistance with
                               seeking loans.




                                   52
             Distribution of off-grid 8 distributors of off-grid   Delays led to companies
             lighting products /      lighting products            being frustrated and
             market development       awarded grants up to a       rushed implementation.
                                      max of US$ 150,000           Level of documentation
                                      (Hensolex, Smart Solar,      required for approvals
                                      One Degree Solar,            was heavy;
                                      Renewable Energy             Lack of time to properly
                                      Ventures, Solaata,           use the funds by the
                                      Mibawa, Solatek, Sunny       companies leading to a
 Kenya                                Money).                      focus on stock purchase.
                                      166,336 lanterns sold        The project was
                                      over the course of 7         originally intended to
                                      months. Products vary        finance improved
                                      from small task lights to    distribution and
                                      solar home systems.          marketing activity.
                                      Assuming 3 beneficiaries     No time for follow-up by
                                      per product we estimate      GVEP. Compressed time
                                      that 0.5m people are         frame allowed no time to
                                      benefiting.                  evaluate impact.
             Capacity building for    Limited implementation
             the government agency    due to the security
             and selected rural       situation which
             electricity providers    developed in March
                                      2012. A study was
 Mali                                 completed on options for
                                      involving more private
                                      capital. The report was
                                      filed with the Bank.
                                      Training of operatives
                                      was not implemented.

Sustainability of projects

26.     In Tanzania in spite of the delays one developer has secured funding and is
completing construction of a hydro site which will supply the grid. Two other larger
projects have good prospects, through potential participation of a commercial developer,
of being financed. Both of these sites will be grid connected but will also serve a local
mini-grid. All of these projects have good economics and competent developers. In total
they will add 7.5MW to the grid if all completed. One other small, isolated site may be
constructed if grant funding can be secured and could be managed by the community.

27.    In Rwanda three sites totaling 4.7 MW have been funded by EWSA. All of the
developers are capable with strong likelihood of the projects being completed. The two
developers supported by GVEP have sites which have good economics. All are grid
connected.


                                           53
28.     The grants to solar PV product distributors in Rwanda and Kenya essentially funded
stock, plus some marketing expenditure. All of the businesses funded are established
companies with a track record and capable of utilizing this injection of additional working
capital to expand sales. Despite the late disbursement of funds considerable volumes of
stock have already been sold by the project close date. In Kenya where GVEP was asked
to work with the businesses on developing plans for battery recovery and disposal all 8
businesses were linked with e-waste disposal facilities and developed materials advising
customers about safe disposal. The degree to which the companies will implement these
plans remains open to question. The compressed implementation means we will not be able
to conduct the planned follow up activity.

29.     In Uganda distribution networks were created for three stove makers. The very
limited implementation period did not allow for any follow up activity to ensure the newly
established relationships work. There is a risk the arrangements break down despite our
best efforts to ensure the activity has a solid grounding.

30.     In Senegal $1.3m in grants for energy and productive equipment were disbursed to
12 businesses. These grants contribute to investments being made by the businesses in
expanding operations based on business plans developed with GVEP support. The original
program design involved an ongoing period of mentoring and trouble shooting. There is
some risk that some of the businesses fail to take full advantage of the investment. The
recipients were carefully selected, however, and the majority should be capable of
implementing the plans themselves now that the program has closed.

       Evaluation of GVEP’s performance

31.     Our experience of working with the World Bank has been very different from our
engagement with other donors (EU, DfID, USAID, DGIS, Sida.) GVEPs core experience
is in executing programs where the donor delegates operational decision making and where
the level of supervision is minimal. GVEP primarily works on programs of direct support
to SMEs, project developers and micro-businesses in the energy space. GVEP does not
normally design programs for government agencies, and GVEP had no previously
experience with Bank procedures and policies. All staff in GVEP involved in the execution
of the ESME Program across the countries involved went through a steep learning curve.

32.     Working with government agencies was challenging. There was often a lack of
interest in engaging with the SME sector, and ownership of the project by the government
was sometimes lacking or the aims of the funding viewed differently. In Rwanda and
Tanzania GVEP depended on the government agencies for the delivery of results but was
unable to act to remove the hold ups or steer the process, as its mandated role was that of
a consultant. We were sometimes not party to documents agreed between the Bank and the
government.

33.    In the cases of Senegal and Kenya, where GVEP was given the whole responsibility
and accountability for grant administration, progress was made very quickly after the



                                            54
revised grant agreement was signed. While aspects of the environmental safeguards and
the procurement processes still proved challenging, GVEP managed the completion of
applications, set up and supported evaluation committees and disbursed grants to the
enterprises.

34.     The constant uncertainties and delays made hiring and retaining staff a challenge.
It was difficult to anticipate when activity would actually start, and when it did start it was
often late. A diverse range of skills were required for the projects and finding staff of
sufficient caliber is difficult and time consuming at the best of times. The Bank’s
procurement procedures added to the lead times required for recruitment and complicated
the process. The program suffered at certain periods from being under-resourced. We had
issues with performance of some staff members. Maintaining staff moral and engagement
was difficult during long periods of delay.

35.     Procurement requirements remained an issue throughout the lifetime of the project.
At the beginning GVEP staff were not familiar with World Bank procurement procedures
though this improved over the duration of the program. While we accept these are the
Bank’s procedures they were in practice onerous to manage in a lean and fast growing
organization. No other funder of GVEP’s work imposes this level of close supervision.

36.     For most countries, the available time to achieve the desired results was too short;
thus impacting the quality of work, supervision, delivery and the required follow up with
the companies. The implementation period was squeezed and the firms had very little time
to use the funding in an effective manner. Shifting goal posts and lengthy processes led
many client businesses to become frustrated, with GVEP staff on the receiving end of their
complaints. Managing some of these relationships was a challenge.

       Evaluation of the Bank’s performance

37.     GVEP recognizes that Bank staff who worked on this program worked hard to find
ways to make the relationship effective. The major delays in the program arose not from
failings on their part but from the peculiar character of the program, the difficulty of
aligning this with existing Bank supported programs in beneficiary countries, and the
Bank’s lengthy and complex internal signoff procedures.

38.     Direct support of energy SMEs, a goal of the donor, presented difficulties for the
Bank’s general approach to projects. The Bank works with government and this therefore
informed the approach adopted. However, the governments GVEP was interacting with did
not have energy SME support programs and were often skeptical of transferring funding
from public accounts to private entities. Therefore, the aim of the project did not align
easily with the approach of the governments. Indeed governments generally are probably
not well placed to manage SME support programs.

39.     Energy SME markets and mini-grid development is all still very new and early
stage. These markets are highly dynamic and fast evolving. The procedures applied by the
Bank in the case of ESME were ill suited to the kinds of businesses the program was



                                              55
supposed to support. For example for Rwanda, a two-year grant scheme that should have
allowed off-grid lighting companies to grow their presence and marketing of their products
in rural areas was reduced to a few months and focused on stock purchase. Delivery of
results has been sub-optimal and the follow-up mentoring and monitoring by GVEP which
was originally planned did not happen.

40.    We understand that the Bank is trying to manage risk and the procedures applied to
ESME may well work for large scale infrastructure projects, and large procurements. For
ESME the processes were disproportionately complex, adding to the Bank’s cost and
causing delays which increased risks of project failure rather than reducing them. The
development of the ESMF and the detailed appraisals and management plans for the solar
companies in Kenya was unnecessarily complicated given the actual levels of
environmental risk.

41.     Some of the companies in Kenya or Rwanda supported under ESME received start-
up grants for the same type of product from the World Banks’ Lighting Africa Market
Place grant competition in 2008, for which no lengthy documentation was required. For
the Climate Innovation Centre Kenya, which is funded through InfoDev and the World
Bank, supervision has been applied with a much lighter touch compared to what we
experienced in ESME. The adoption of lighter processes, which the Bank appears to be
able to operate in other contexts, would have helped ESME.

       Lessons learned for future implementation of similar projects

42.     The ESME project was unusual and it is perhaps not surprising that both the
Bank and GVEP were challenged in finding a way to implement it effectively. If any
future project of this kind is contemplated we recommend a different approach be
considered. The energy SMEs sector is highly dynamic and off-grid energy markets are
changing very quickly. These evolving markets need active nurturing. Small energy
businesses and project developers need timely support, quick decisions and relatively light
administrative processes. These businesses have limited capacity to deal with complex
bureaucratic requirements. Government agencies are primarily focused on large scale
infrastructure and grid extension. It is rare to find government agencies actively engaged
in nurturing the activity of SMEs in the off-grid energy sector. Indeed, it is questionable
whether they should have a role in this area beyond the creation of a supportive policy and
regulatory environment. Providing funding and technical support is almost certainly going
to be more effective if managed by an independent agency with the appropriate skills - an
agency which is given the operational freedom to be responsive to the needs of the market.

43.     The experience of the ESME program has shown that trying to support SMEs
through government agencies is very difficult. In two countries alternative arrangements
had to be created. In countries where a government agency was involved in disbursing
funds it was not possible for GVEP to influence the delivery. Expectations that a third part
like GVEP could exercise such influence we believe are flawed.




                                            56
44.     The risk mitigation processes developed by the Bank, and the close supervision of
activity, necessarily creates delays and considerable volumes of paperwork. These
processes were ill suited to a program intended to benefit energy SMEs. The Bank appears
to be able to operate with more appropriate control arrangements in other contexts and
perhaps needs to reflect on how ESME might have been managed differently.

45.     This was an unusual program for the Bank and it is probably unlikely similar
activities will be contemplated in the future. If any activity in this area is contemplated we
believe the Bank needs to think carefully about its processes and approach.

46.     There will be unspent funds at the end of October and we are aware there is a
discussion with the donor about how those funds might be used. Whatever arrangement is
put in place we think there are important lessons from the last five years which need to be
learned. Trying to continue with the same modalities will not produce good results. A more
flexible approach where GVEP is allowed to manage an SME support facility, with
operational freedom to respond to market needs and development would be far more likely
to have impact.




                                             57
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                      58
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Project Paper GVEP for Energy SME Support in SSA (June 2013)
   2. Project Paper Trust Fund to Support Energy SME in SSA (December 2008)
   3. Grant Agreement between the Bank and GVEP (June 2009)
   4. Capacity Assessment GVEP International; prepared by Tjaarda P. storm van
      Leeuwen, Consultant, (January 2012)
   5. Grant Agreement amendment between the Bank and GVEP (June 2013)
   6. Implementation Completion and Results Report, ICR00002627 (IDA-38280,
      IDA-45030, TF098148, TF099253), (March 28, 2013)
   7. Restructuring Paper (April 2013)
   8. Aide Memoire of Midterm Review (December 2013)
   9. GVEP International Completion Report (October 2014)
   10. Implementation Supervision Reports
   11. Interim Financial Reports
   12. ICR guidelines




                                         59
